CITY CODE
of
LIBERTY LAKE
WASHINGTON
2004
Code current through:
Ord. 302, passed 1-16-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Liberty Lake, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 302, passed January 16, 2024. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 146
   CITY OF LIBERTY LAKE
   SPOKANE COUNTY, WASHINGTON
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LIBERTY LAKE, SPOKANE COUNTY, WASHINGTON, ADOPTING
THE MUNICIPAL CODE AS COMPILED, EDITED AND PUBLISHED BY STERLING CODIFIERS, AS
THE OFFICIAL CODE OF THE CITY OF LIBERTY LAKE, WASHINGTON.
   WHEREAS, Sterling Codifiers, Inc., has contracted with the city of Liberty
Lake, Washington, to prepare the Liberty Lake municipal code, as authorized by
RCW 35A.21.130;
   WHEREAS, Sterling Codifiers, Inc., has responsibility to compile, edit, and
publish the Liberty Lake municipal code to be kept on file in the office of the
city clerk;
   WHEREAS, on February 21, 2006, the Liberty Lake city council following a
first reading of this ordinance set a public hearing for March 21, 2006, to
receive comments on the codification and compilation of city ordinances
incorporated into the Liberty Lake municipal code;
   WHEREAS, a notice of the public hearing has been published in the official
newspaper of the city not more than fifteen nor less than ten days prior to the
hearing with the notice stating that city ordinances have been codified, a copy
of the codification is on file in the office of the city clerk and that on
March 21, 2006, in the council chambers at city hall a public hearing would be
held for the purpose of receiving comments on the codification of the municipal
code;
   WHEREAS, the Liberty Lake city council held a public hearing on March 21,
2006; and
   WHEREAS, the Liberty Lake city council believes the Liberty Lake municipal
code to be a correct and accurate codification of the ordinances of the city of
Liberty Lake, Washington.
   NOW, THEREFORE, the city council of the city of Liberty Lake, Washington,
does ordain as follows:
   Section 1. Code Adopted. The Liberty Lake municipal code, as compiled from
the ordinances of the city of Liberty Lake, Washington, is hereby adopted as
the official code of the city of Liberty Lake, Washington, all of which is
filed in the office of the city clerk
.   Section 2. Reference And Citation. The code shall be known as the "Liberty
Lake municipal code". The Liberty Lake municipal code ("LLMC") or any reference
therein may be cited as legal authority in any prosecution for the violation of
any provision thereof, defense, or in any proceeding at law or equity. It shall
be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to, amending, correcting or
repealing all or any part or portion thereof as an addition to, amendment to,
correction of, or repeal of the Liberty Lake municipal code. Further reference
may be had to the titles, chapters, sections and subsections of the Liberty
Lake municipal code and such reference shall apply to that numbered title,
chapter, section or subsection as it appears in that code.
   Section 3. Reference Applies To Amendments. Whenever a reference is made to
the Liberty Lake municipal code or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance
of the city of Liberty Lake, Washington, that reference shall apply to all
amendments, corrections and additions heretofore now or thereafter made.
   Section 4. Codification Authority. This code consists of all of the
regulatory and penal ordinances and certain of the administrative ordinances
codified pursuant to RCW 35A.21.130.
   Section 5. Titles, Chapters And Sections. The LLMC shall, initially, consist
of ten titles with related chapters and sections as set forth on the attached
exhibit "A" entitled "Table Of Contents". The city council through legislative
action may add to, delete or modify the LLMC according to council rules and
state law, RCW 35.21.560.
   Section 6. Severability. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this
ordinance shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect
the validity or constitutionality of any other section, sentence, clause or
phrase of this ordinance.
   Section 7. Effective Date. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect
five (5) days after publication of this ordinance or a summary thereof in the
official newspaper of the city.
   PASSED by the city council this 21st day of March, 2006.
                                         
   Mayor, Steve Peterson
ATTEST:
                                         
City Clerk/Treasurer, Arlene Fisher
Approved as to Form:
                                         
City Attorney, Stanley Schwartz
Date of Publication:                         
Effective Date:                              
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
LIBERTY LAKE CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Codification
1-1-6: Code Revision And Amendments
1-1-7: Pending Actions
1-1-1: TITLE:
Pursuant to authority granted in Revised Code of Washington sections 35.21.500
et seq., and upon the adoption by the mayor and city council, this code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of
Liberty Lake. This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the LIBERTY
LAKE CITY CODE and is hereby published by authority of the mayor and city
council and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of
the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2004 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2004 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Ordinances amending the Liberty Lake municipal code shall be assigned a
reference number and enacted separately prior to codification. Any ordinance
that amends a codification shall set forth in full the section(s) being amended
and shall show added language in an underline format and deleted language in a
strike-through format. The amendment shall set forth the entire section being
added or amended. For purposes of repeal of a section, it shall be sufficient
to state the codified title, chapter or section being repealed without
reproducing it in its entirety. (Ord. 147, 3-7-2006, eff. 3-22-2006)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any provision of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the city
clerk when directed so to do by order of the mayor and city council. (2004
Code)
1-1-5: CODIFICATION:
The Liberty Lake municipal code, pursuant to Revised Code of Washington
35.21.500 et seq., is hereby published under the authority and direction of the
city council for the purpose of conveniently compiling the legislation of the
city. (Ord. 147, 3-7-2006, eff. 3-22-2006)
1-1-6: CODE REVISION AND AMENDMENTS:
Following enactment of an ordinance, it may be codified. Codification of an
ordinance means the editing, rearrangement and placement of ordinances under
appropriate titles, chapters and sections, and includes, but is not limited to,
the following:A. Editing ordinances as reasonably necessary to clarify language
without changing the meaning or intent of such legislation;B. Substituting for
the term "this ordinance", the term "section", "part", "code", "chapter",
"title", or reference to specific section or chapter numbers as required;C.
Correcting obvious errors in reference to ordinances, laws and statutes,
including spelling or typographical errors, additions or omissions; andD.
Striking provisions which create conflicts and inconsistent statements between
ordinances so as to give effect to the city council legislative intent. (Ord.
147, 3-7-2006, eff. 3-22-2006)
1-1-7: PENDING ACTIONS:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending. The codified ordinances shall be deemed to be effective as set forth
in the ordinance approved by the city council. This code shall not be
interpreted as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty
accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or
corporation, or act as waiving any right of the city under any existing
ordinance at the time of the adoption of this code. (Ord. 147, 3-7-2006, eff.
3-22-2006)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2004 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2004 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2004 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted by reference or any
codes or portions of codes adopted herein is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted
by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. The mayor and
city council hereby declares its intent to have adopted each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (Ord. 147, 3-7-2006, eff. 3-22-2006)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Titles; Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and words
contained in this code shall be liberally construed to reflect the intent and
meaning of the ordinance.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where provisions in
one or more ordinances govern the same matter, the provision that imposes the
greater restriction upon the subject matter shall be controlling.
   C.   Additional Interpretations:
      1.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time, the day on which such notice is
given or such act is done shall not be counted in computing the time but the
day on which such proceeding is to be held shall be counted.
      2.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision requires a director of
a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some duty, it
is to be construed to authorize the director of the department or other officer
to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act
or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section specify
otherwise.
      3.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      4.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
      5.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and understood usage of the language;
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a specialized
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
      6.   Number: A word importing the singular number may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      7.   Officers Generally: Whenever any officer is referred by title, such
as "clerk", "treasurer", "chief of police", etc., such reference shall be
construed as if followed by the words "of the city of Liberty Lake".
      8.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present. (Ord. 147, 3-7-2006, eff. 3-22-2006)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the following meanings, unless the context indicates otherwise:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Liberty Lake, Washington.
CODE: The city code of the city of Liberty Lake.
COUNTY: The county of Spokane, state of Washington.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to city regulation,
authorization or limitation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession,
occupation or use of city property.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (Ord. 147, 3-7-2006, eff. 3-22-2006)
1-3-3: TITLES; CATCHLINES:
The titles of the several chapters and catchlines of the several sections of
this code are intended to indicate the content and shall not be deemed to
govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of
the provisions thereof. (Ord. 147, 3-7-2006, eff. 3-22-2006)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalties
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise specified in this code, any person who shall violate any
provision of this code shall be punished pursuant to the following general
penalty provisions:
   A.   Penalties Assessed:
      1.   Criminal Penalty: Unless otherwise provided, any person violating
any of the provisions of this code is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person
convicted of a misdemeanor under this code shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed one
year, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      2.   Civil Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
code which is designated a civil offense, shall have committed a civil
infraction. Unless otherwise provided, any such person shall be assessed a
monetary penalty not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each day
that the violation occurs.
   B.   Separate Offense: Every person violating any of the provisions of this
code is guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion
of which the violation is committed, continued or permitted by any such person.
   C.   Nuisance: In addition to the penalties set forth above, all remedies
given by law for the prevention and abatement of nuisances shall apply
regardless of any other remedy. (Ord. 31, 8-7-2001)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2004 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2004
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Salaries
1-5-1: SALARIES 1 :
Effective on the date of incorporation, the salaries of the mayor and city
council members shall be paid on the last day of the month and shall be as
follows: (Ord. 8A, 10-9-2001)
 
Mayor               $1,250.00
City council member 400.00
 
(Ord. 8A, 10-9-2001; amd. per correspondence dated 5-16-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. RCW § 35A.12.070.
CHAPTER 6
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Oath Of Office
1-6-2: Compensation And Benefits
1-6-3: City Clerk
1-6-4: City Attorney
1-6-5: City Auditor
1-6-6: Architectural And Engineering Services
1-6-7: City Administrator, Police Chief, And Department Directors
1-6-1: OATH OF OFFICE 1 :
The city administrator, police chief, and department directors, before entering
the performance of their duties of office, shall be required to take an oath or
affirmation for the full performance of their duties in substantially the
following form:
OATH OF OFFICE.
I _______________ do solemnly swear that I will faithfully and impartially to
the best of my ability perform the duties of the office of _____________ in
accordance with the laws of the State of Washington and all other duly enacted
laws, rules and policies of the City of Liberty Lake, Washington.
By: _____________________________
[Attestation]
The oath or affirmation shall be given before the Mayor and filed with the
Spokane County Auditor. (Ord. 281, 11-16-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. RCW § 35A.12.080.
1-6-2: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS:
   A.   Payment Of Salaries: Payments of salaries to city staff shall be on the
last day of the month. (Ord. 8A, 10-9-2001)
   B.   Cafeteria Plan: There is hereby established a fund to be known as the
"section 125 fund" within the group of city funds that will contain money
voluntarily deposited from the salaries and compensation of participating
employees and from which employee reimbursements shall be paid for authorized
medical, childcare and other expenses of the contributing employees in
compliance with section 125 of the IRS code. (Ord. 105, 11-19-2002)
1-6-3: CITY CLERK:
   A.   Office Created: There is created the office of City Clerk pursuant to
the laws of the State of Washington. This office shall be filled by appointment
of the City Mayor with confirmation by the City Council. The City Clerk shall
serve without definite term at the discretion of the Mayor.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The City Clerk shall keep a full and true record of every proceeding
of the City Council and keep such books, accounts and make such reports as may
be required by the State Auditor. The City Clerk shall record and index all
ordinances, annexing thereto a certificate, giving the number and title of the
ordinance, stating that the ordinance was published and posted according to the
law and that the record is true and correct copy thereof. The record copy with
the Clerk's certificate shall be prima facie evidence of the contents of the
ordinance and of its passage and publication and shall be admissible as such
evidence in any court or proceeding.
      2.   The City Clerk shall be custodian of the seal of the City and have
authority to acknowledge the execution of all instruments by the City which
require acknowledgment.
      3.   The City Clerk shall perform such other duties as may be assigned or
required by statute.
   C.   Qualifications: The Mayor and City Council shall confer to establish
qualifications for the position of City Clerk with such qualifications approved
by Resolution of the Council.
   D.   Salary: The salary for the position of City Clerk shall be set at the
rate provided for in the annual budget adopted by the City Council. (Ord. 33,
8-14-2001; amd. Ord. 33A, 11-16-2021)
1-6-4: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created the office of city attorney.
This office shall be filled by appointment of the mayor with confirmation by
the city council.
   B.   Qualifications: The mayor and city council shall confer in order to
establish qualifications for the position of city attorney, with such
qualifications approved by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Contract: The city shall enter into a contract for services upon such
terms as are reasonable and just.
   D.   Duties: The city attorney, or a designated representative, shall:
      1.   Advise the mayor, city council and employees in all legal matters
pertaining to the business of the city;
      2.   Represent the city in all actions brought by or against the city, or
against city officials and employees in their official capacity, and shall
perform such other duties as the city council may direct;
      3.   Attend all regular and special meetings of the city council unless
otherwise excused by the city council;
      4.   Draft, review and approve ordinances, resolutions, contracts and
other legal instruments and documents;
      5.   Perform such other duties as may be assigned or prescribed by the
laws of the state of Washington and by city ordinance. (Ord. 34, 8-14-2001)
1-6-5: CITY AUDITOR:
The city council hereby appoints the administrative services manager or, in the
absence of the administrative services manager, the city clerk as the auditing
officer. The auditing officer is required to perform all duties set forth in
Revised Code Of Washington 42.24.080, including the authentication and
certification of claims against the city of Liberty Lake. (Ord. 05A, 3-16-2010,
eff. 3-30-2010)
1-6-6: ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICES:
Annually, and in response to specific projects of work, the city shall
encourage, through notice published in a newspaper of general circulation,
architectural and engineering firms to submit a statement of qualifications and
performance data which can be used to select firms that are able to provide
services to the city. The qualifications and data shall be maintained in the
office of the city clerk and be available for public inspection. (Ord. 74, 11-
2-2001; amd. 2004 Code)
   A.   Procurement:
      1.   At least ten (10) days prior to contracting for architectural or
engineering services, the city shall publish a notice stating the specific
project or scope of work or announce generally the category or type of
professional services required. The notice shall contain the name and address
of a city representative who can provide information and details on the
request.
      2.   After the notice, the city shall review the current statements of
qualifications on file with the city clerk as well as the statements submitted
in response to the notice, and shall conduct discussions with one or more firms
regarding anticipated concepts and the relative utility of alternative methods
for furnishing the requested services. The city may request interviews and
presentations from firms.
      3.   The city shall select the most highly qualified firm to provide the
services based upon the criteria set forth below and in the request. The
evaluation criteria includes:
         a.   The ability of the firm to provide the requested services;
         b.   The scope of work or methods to furnish the services;
         c.   Qualifications, experience and references;
         d.   Performance under previous contracts with the city; and
         e.   Such other information as deemed relevant.
After identification of the most highly qualified firm, the city shall request
a fee proposal from the firm and thereafter proceed to negotiate a contract at
a price which is determined by the city to be fair and reasonable. In making
this determination, the city shall evaluate the estimated value of the
services, the scope, complexity and nature of the request. If the city is
unable to negotiate a fair and reasonable price for services, negotiations
shall be terminated and another firm shall be selected in accordance with the
above process.
      4.   When the parties have reached a fair and reasonable price with the
city, the city council shall review the contract for approval. During the
negotiation process and unless otherwise authorized, the selected firm shall
not contact any member of the city council to discuss the fee for services.
The city reserves the right to cancel any request for proposals. The request
shall not be deemed an offer of contract nor shall any firm be entitled to
recover any cost associated with preparing a response.
   B.   Emergency And Limitation: Nothing contained in this section shall limit
or prevent the city from procuring architectural or engineering services in the
event of an emergency. This section shall be expressly limited to the
professional services identified herein. (Ord. 74, 11-2-2001)
1-6-7: CITY ADMINISTRATOR, POLICE CHIEF, AND DEPARTMENT DIRECTORS:
   A.   Offices Created: There is created the offices of City Administrator,
Police Chief, and Department Directors which offices shall be filled for an
indefinite term by appointment of the Mayor with confirmation by the City
Council. The City Administrator, Police Chief and Department Directors shall
serve without a definite term at the discretion of the Mayor.
   B.   Police Chief Duties: The Police Chief, under the direction of the City
Mayor, shall serve as the chief law enforcement officer of the City. The Police
Chief and his designees shall possess investigative, arrest and incidental
powers relating to the enforcement of municipal laws including criminal and
traffic misdemeanors and civil infractions committed in the City. Additional
duties performed include patrol, traffic and pedestrian safety, crime
prevention, community relations and such other matters as necessary for the
proper functioning of the City police force. The Police Chief has the authority
to commission police officers for the City and may perform all acts necessary
to preserve the peace and order of the City under Federal, State and City law.
   C.   Qualifications: The Mayor and City Council shall confer to establish
qualifications for the positions of City Administrator, Police Chief and
Department Directors with such qualifications approved by Resolution of the
Council.
   D.   The salary for the positions of City Administrator, Police Chief and
Department Directors shall be set at the rate provided for in the annual budget
adopted by the City Council. (Ord. 281, 11-16-2021)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL DOCUMENTS AND PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: City Logo
1-7-2: City Hall Hours
1-7-3: Financial Regulations
1-7-4: Credit Cards
1-7-5: Fees Established
1-7-6: Comprehensive Plan
1-7-7: Capital Facilities Plan
1-7-1: CITY LOGO:
   A.   Logo Adopted: The city hereby adopts the symbol depicted below as its
city logo, and shall be the subject of a trademark or copyright to further
prevent unauthorized use.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f750196c8dbe1d393bc8010c3268083509e4e825/
IMAGES/0-0-0-977.gif]
 
   B.   Use: The city council finds that the city logo is a symbol of
identification for the city and a measurable asset reflecting features and
characteristics of the city. Recognizing the value and notoriety of the logo,
the city council desires to ensure that only appropriate uses are made of the
city logo, and it, therefore, shall be displayed and used only for official
purposes of the city, or as otherwise authorized by the mayor.
   C.   Unauthorized Use: Except as authorized by the mayor, the city logo
shall not be used on or in connection with any advertising or promotion for any
product, business, organization or service whether offered for profit or
nonprofit. No person shall use a symbol that imitates the city logo or that is
deceptively similar in appearance to the city logo. The city logo may be used
for illustrative purposes by the news media if the reproduction is incidental
to the publication, communication or broadcast.
   D.   Penalty For Violation: Any person who wilfully violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to punishment as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this title. The city's right to prosecute under this section shall not
affect its right to pursue civil or injunctive relief under federal or state
laws. (Ord. 71, 11-20-2001)
1-7-2: CITY HALL HOURS:
   A.   Hours Of Operation: The days and hours of operation of city offices
will be from eight o'clock (8:00) A.   M. through five o'clock (5:00) P.M.,
Monday through Friday, provided that the mayor may alter the hours of operation
of city offices on a temporary basis as necessary for the efficient operation
of the city. (Ord. 01, 6-5-2001)
   B.   Legal Holidays: Unless otherwise ordered by the mayor, the following
days are recognized as legal holidays during which all offices of the city,
including the municipal court, are closed for the transaction of business:
      New Year's Day, January 1
      Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, the third Monday of January
      Memorial Day, the last Monday of May
      July 4
      Labor Day, the first Monday of September
      Thanksgiving Day, the fourth Thursday of November
      The Friday following Thanksgiving Day
      Christmas Day, December 25
   (Ord. 09, 6-12-2001)
1-7-3: FINANCIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Payment Of Claims Or Obligations: Pursuant to RCW 35A.40.020, payment
of claims or obligations of the city shall be by check. The qualified public
depository, whereon such checks are to be drawn, shall be:
   US Bank
   1304 N. Liberty Lake Road
   Liberty Lake, Washington 99019
with the city officers authorized to sign checks being the city administrator,
the finance director, the city clerk/treasurer, planning and community
development director, the mayor and the mayor pro tem, and with checks being
signed by any two (2) of the foregoing authorized signatories. (Ord. 03A2, 2-
19-2002)
   B.   Travel Policies And Procedures: The travel policies and procedures for
reimbursement for expenses incurred while on official city business are
approved by the mayor and city council and are hereby adopted and on file in
the office of the city clerk/treasurer and as amended from time to time by the
mayor. (Ord. 10, 6-12-2001)
1-7-4: CREDIT CARDS 1 :
The city hereby adopts the following system for the issuance, use and control
of credit cards by city officials and employees:
   A.   Definitions: As used herein:
    CREDIT CARD: A card or device issued under an arrangement pursuant to which
the issuer (credit card company) gives to the cardholder (the city) the
privilege of obtaining credit from the issuer.
   B.   Regulations: The mayor or his designee is authorized to obtain city
credit cards under the following system which provides for the distribution,
authorization, control, credit limits and payment of bills through the use of
the credit cards by city officials and employees:
      1.   Issuance And Use: Credit cards may be issued to the city and used by
city officials and authorized employees for purchasing goods, supplies and
other items from vendors or incurring registration, training or travel expenses
in connection with the performance of their duties on behalf of the city.
      2.   Authorization And Control: Upon authorization from the mayor, city
employees may obtain credit cards from the city clerk/treasurer who shall
maintain a ledger of the individual receiving the credit card, including the
date the card was received. City council members may obtain credit cards from
the city clerk/treasurer. The city clerk/treasurer shall implement accounting
controls to ensure the proper use of credit cards and credit card funds.
      3.   Credit Limits: The credit limit shall not exceed three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00) per card.
      4.   Payment Of Bills: The city clerk/treasurer shall establish a
procedure for the prompt payment of all credit card bills on or before the due
date.
      5.   Unauthorized Charges: No official or employee shall use the city
issued credit card for noncity business purposes. No charge(s) shall exceed
amounts established and available in the city budget.
      6.   Cash Advances: Cash advances on credit cards is prohibited.
   C.   Travel Expenses: Expenses incident to authorized travel may be charged
to a city issued credit card provided the official or employee returns to the
city an itemized travel expense voucher with credit card receipts. If certain
credit charges are disallowed as a result of audit or city policy, such charge
must be repaid to the city with the city having the right to withhold funds
payable to the official or employee for up to the amount of the disallowed
charge including interest at the rate charged by the credit card company.
   D.   Revocation Of Use: The mayor is authorized to revoke the use of any
credit card issued and immediately require the surrender of the credit card.
The mayor may deliver a revocation order to the credit card company with the
city not being liable for any future costs incurred after the date of
revocation.
   E.   Additional Regulations: The mayor is authorized to adopt any additional
rules or policies necessary to implement the provisions of this section. (Ord.
84, 3-19-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. RCW §§ 42.24.115, 43.09.2855.
1-7-5: FEES ESTABLISHED:
In addition or as a modification of any fees established through other city
ordinances, the city may establish or amend fees and charges by resolution for
services provided by city employees, consultants or other individuals or firms
under contract with the city. (Ord. 29, 7-31-2001)
1-7-6: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
   A.   Comprehensive Plan Adopted: The text of the city's comprehensive plan
and land use maps are fully incorporated herein by reference.
   B.   Amendments: The comprehensive plan shall be subject to continuing
review and evaluation by the city as outlined in Revised Code Of Washington
36.70A.130 and Washington Administrative Code 365-195-630. Amendments to the
plan shall not be considered more frequently than once every year, except in
cases of emergency and as outlined in the countywide planning policies for
Spokane County, amendments must be considered at least once every five (5)
years.
   C.   Administration And Enforcement:
      1.   Administration: The planning and community development department
shall be responsible for the administration of the plan and maps adopted by
this section and projects shall be reviewed prior to the issuance of any
permits or approvals to ensure the project conforms to said plan and maps.
      2.   Enforcement: Projects that do not conform to said plan and maps
shall be subject to the denial of permits or approvals until the project is
brought into conformance. (Ord. 118, 9-16-2003)
1-7-7: CAPITAL FACILITIES PLAN:
   A.   Plan Adoption: The text of the city of Liberty Lake 2013-2018 capital
facilities plan is hereby adopted as set forth in exhibit A, 2013-2018 city of
Liberty Lake capital facilities plan, attached to the ordinance codified herein
and fully incorporated herein by reference.
   B.   Plan Content:
Introduction/background
Capital facility financing strategies
Obligation to provide capital facilities
Establishing levels of service standards
Financial resources
Assessment of facilities and services
Water
Sewer
Stormwater
Parks and open space
Law enforcement
Municipal facilities
Public schools
Transportation
Fire service
Capital improvement program planning
Project list
Project map
Current financial capacity and debt
Appendix
Current capital facility inventory
Comprehensive plan comparison matrix
Capital improvement worksheets
(Ord. 203, 11-20-2012, eff. 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC RECORDS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Relationship To Statutes
1-8-2: Disclosure Of Public Records
1-8-3: Definitions
1-8-4: Copyright Enforcement
1-8-5: Maintenance Of Records
1-8-6: Exemptions
1-8-7: Inspection And Copying Procedures
1-8-8: Decision On Public Records Requests
1-8-9: Administrative Rules
1-8-1: RELATIONSHIP TO STATUTES:
   A.   Public Records Disclosure Act: This chapter constitutes the city's
rules and regulations to carry out and implement the public records disclosure
act 1 . Except as provided in this chapter, RCW chapter 42.17 shall apply to
all city public records.
   B.   Other Statutes: The city shall not be required by this chapter to
permit public inspection and copying of any record to the extent public
disclosure of the record is prohibited, restricted or limited by any state or
federal statute or regulation including, but not limited to, the Washington
state criminal records privacy act 2 , relating to release of records by
juvenile justice or care agencies 3  or relating to accident reports and
abandoned vehicles 4 . (Ord. 02, 6-5-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. RCW chapter 42.17.250 et seq.
2 2. RCW chapter 10.97.
3 3. RCW chapter 13.50.
4 4. RCW chapter 46.52.
1-8-2: DISCLOSURE OF PUBLIC RECORDS:
Unless exempt from disclosure under this chapter, public records shall be
available for inspection and copying in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 02,
6-5-2001)
1-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
PUBLIC RECORD:
   A.   Any writing;
   B.   Any computer data and databases and computer generated documents, maps
and drawings; and
   C.   Any software and special applications for software developed by city
officers and employees in the scope of their employment, containing information
relating to the conduct of government or the performance of any governmental or
proprietary function prepared, owned, used or retained by the city regardless
of physical form or characteristics.
WRITING: Handwriting, typewriting, printing, photostating, photographing and
every other means of recording any form of communication or representation,
including, but not limited to, letters, words, pictures, sounds or symbols, or
combination thereof, and all papers, maps, magnetic or paper tapes,
photographic films and prints, motion picture, film and video recordings,
magnetic or punched cards, discs, drums, diskettes, sound recordings and other
documents including existing data compilations from which information may be
obtained or translated. (Ord. 02, 6-5-2001)
1-8-4: COPYRIGHT ENFORCEMENT:
The city recognizes that any software and special applications for software
developed by city officers and employees in the scope of their employment are
owned by the city pursuant to the copyright laws, 17 USC, sections 101 and 201.
The city will make available to all requestors a license to use such software
so as to make use of all public data. (Ord. 02, 6-5-2001)
1-8-5: MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS:
   A.   All substantive and procedural rules of general applicability,
including, but not limited to, ordinances and resolutions of the city council,
minutes of the regular meetings of the city council and statements of general
policy, and all public contracts, deeds, easements and leases, shall be indexed
and maintained in the office of the city clerk for the use of the city and of
the general public.
   B.   All other records of the city relating to the specific function or
responsibility of a particular city department shall be maintained for the use
of the department and the general public in the office of the department. The
department shall maintain and make available for public inspection and copying
a current index providing identifying information as to the following records:
      1.   Final opinions and orders made in the adjudication of cases;
      2.   Statements of policy and interpretations of policy which have been
adopted by the city;
      3.   Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a
member of the public;
      4.   Planning policies and goals, and interim and final planning
decisions;
      5.   Factual staff reports and studies, factual consultants reports and
studies, scientific reports and studies and any other factual information
derived from tests, studies, reports or surveys, whether conducted by public
employees or others; and
      6.   Correspondence, and materials referred to therein, by and with the
city relating to any regulatory, supervisory or enforcement responsibilities of
the city, whereby the city determines, opines upon, or is asked to determine or
opine upon, the rights of the state, the public, a subdivision of state
government or of any private party. (Ord. 02, 6-5-2001)
1-8-6: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The following shall be exempt from public inspection and copying:
      1.   Personal information in files maintained for employees, appointees
or elected officials, to the extent that disclosure would violate their right
to privacy, as defined in RCW 42.17.255.
      2.   Information required of any taxpayer in connection with the
assessment or collection of any tax if the disclosure of the information to
other persons would be prohibited to such persons by RCW 82.32.330 or violate
the taxpayer's right to privacy, as defined in RCW 42.17.255, or result in
unfair competitive disadvantage to the taxpayer.
      3.   Specific intelligence information and specific investigative records
compiled by investigative, law enforcement and penology agencies, the
nondisclosure of which is essential to effective law enforcement or for the
protection of any person's right to privacy, as defined in RCW 42.17.255.
      4.   Information revealing the identity of persons who are witnesses to
or victims of crime or who file complaints with investigative, law enforcement
or penology agencies, other than the public disclosure commission, if
disclosure would endanger any person's life, physical safety or property;
provided, that if at the time a complaint is filed the complainant, victim or
witness indicates a desire for disclosure or nondisclosure, such desire shall
govern.
      5.   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a license, employment or academic examination.
      6.   Except as provided by RCW chapter 8.26, the contents of real estate
appraisals, made for or by any agency including the city, relative to the
acquisition or sale of property, until the project or prospective sale is
abandoned or until such time as all of the property has been acquired or the
property to which the sale appraisal relates is sold, but in no event shall
disclosure be denied for more than three (3) years after the appraisal.
      7.   Valuable formulae, designs, drawings and research data obtained by
the city within five (5) years of the request for disclosure when disclosure
would produce private gain and public loss. The exemption of this subsection A7
shall not include software and special applications for software developed by
city officers and employees in the scope of their employment.
      8.   Preliminary drafts, notes, recommendations and intraagency
memorandums in which opinions are expressed or policies formulated or
recommended except that a specific record shall not be exempt when publicly
cited by the city in connection with any city action.
      9.   Records which are relevant to a controversy to which the city is a
party but which records would not be available to another party under the rules
of pretrial discovery for causes pending in the superior courts.
      10.   Records, maps or other information identifying the location of
archaeological sites in order to avoid the looting or depredation of such
sites.
      11.   Financial and commercial information and records supplied by
businesses during application for loans or program services provided by RCW
chapters 43.160, 43.163, 43.168 and 43.330.
      12.   All applications for public employment, including the names of
applicants, resumes and other related materials submitted with respect to an
applicant.
      13.   The residential addresses and residential telephone numbers of
employees or volunteers of the city which are held by the city in personnel
records, employment or volunteer rosters, or mailing lists of employees or
volunteers.
      14.   The residential addresses and residential telephone numbers of the
customers of a city utility contained in the records or lists held by the city
utility of which they are customers.
      15.   Client records maintained by the city under any domestic violence
program as defined in RCW 70.123.020 or rape crisis center as defined in RCW
70.125.030.
      16.   Information that identifies a person who, while a city employee: a)
seeks advice, under an informal process established by the city, in order to
ascertain his rights in connection with a possible unfair practice under RCW
chapter 49.60 against the person; and b) requests his identity or any
identifying information not be disclosed.
      17.   License applications under RCW 9.41.070.
      18.   Information revealing the identity of child victims of sexual
assault who are under age eighteen (18). Identifying information means the
child victim's name, address, location, photograph, and in cases in which the
child victim is a relative or stepchild of the alleged perpetrator,
identification of the relationship between the child and the alleged
perpetrator.
      19.   A law enforcement authority may not request inspection or copying
of records of any person, which belong to a city electrical utility, unless the
authority provides the city electrical utility with a written statement in
which the authority states that it suspects that the particular person to whom
the records pertain has committed a crime and the authority has a reasonable
belief that the records could determine or help determine whether the suspicion
might be true.
      20.   Any other record which is exempt from disclosure under any state
law.
   B.   The exemptions from public disclosure set forth in this section shall
be inapplicable to the extent that information, the disclosure of which would
violate personal privacy or vital governmental interests, can be deleted from
the specific records sought. No exemption shall be construed to permit the
nondisclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person or persons.
   C.   Inspection or copying of any specific records exempt under this section
may be permitted if the Spokane County superior court finds, after a hearing
with notice thereof to every person interested and to the city, that the
exemption of such records is clearly unnecessary to protect any individual's
right of privacy or any vital governmental function.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall affect a positive duty of the city to
disclose or a positive duty to withhold information which duty to disclose or
withhold is contained in any other law. (Ord. 02, 6-5-2001)
1-8-7: INSPECTION AND COPYING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Procedure For Inspection Or Copying:
      1.   Persons wishing to inspect or copy city records shall first make
such request to the city clerk or the department head of the city department
which maintains the requested records. If the requestor does not know which
department maintains the records, the request shall be made to the city clerk,
and the city clerk shall direct the requestor to the appropriate department.
All assistance necessary to help the requestor locate the particular record
shall be provided promptly either by the city clerk or by the particular
department maintaining the records. The provision of such assistance shall not
unreasonably disrupt the normal operations of the city clerk, the department or
the assisting employee.
      2.   The city clerk or other city employee shall not distinguish among
persons requesting records. Persons requesting records shall not be required to
provide information as to the purpose for the request, except to establish
whether the inspection or copying would violate RCW 42.17.260(5) or other
statute or ordinance which exempts or prohibits disclosure of specific
information or records to certain persons.
   B.   Reimbursement For Copying Costs:
      1.   Copies of written records, maps, photographs including slides, audio
tape recordings, video tape recordings and diskettes shall be made and provided
by the city upon request and payment of the actual cost of reproducing the
same, which cost shall be established by city council resolution.
      2.   Labor and mailing costs shall be included in the cost of
reproduction. The costs of reproduction provided for by resolution shall
include, but not be limited to, the following records: street maps, zoning
maps, zoning codes, ordinances, public meeting minutes, resolutions, verbatim
transcripts, deeds, contracts and other records of the character contemplated
in section
1-8-1 of this chapter.
      3.   Where the request is for a certified copy, there shall be an
additional charge in the amount established by city council resolution to cover
the additional expense and time required for certification.
      4.   The city clerk or a department head may provide copies of city
records at no charge to individuals or government agencies doing business with
the city, if the city clerk or department head determines such action is in the
best interests of the city. (Ord. 02, 6-5-2001)
1-8-8: DECISION ON PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS:
   A.   Upon receiving an oral or written request to inspect or copy a public
record, the city clerk or the department head shall grant the request unless
the city clerk or department head determines that the record requested is or
may be exempt from disclosure in whole or in part, in which case the city clerk
or department head shall require that the requestor complete a written request
for public records form.
   B.   A department head shall immediately deliver a completed written request
for public records form to the city clerk.
   C.   Upon receiving a completed written request for records form, the city
clerk shall determine whether the requested record is exempt by law from
inspection and copying in whole or in part. Within five (5) business days of
the date of receipt by the city of the written request for a record, the city
clerk shall:
      1.   Provide the record; or
      2.   If the city clerk determines that the document is exempt in part but
can be made available after deletion of exempt portions, or after deletion of
portions which would violate personal privacy or vital governmental interests,
the request shall be granted; provided, that such exempt portions shall first
be deleted. If the city clerk determines to deny the request, in whole or in
part, a written statement of the specific reasons for the denial shall be
provided to the requestor.
      3.   A decision by the city clerk denying inspection shall be reviewed by
the city attorney. Such review shall be deemed complete at the end of the
second business day following the denial of inspection and shall constitute
final city action for the purposes of judicial review. The requestor shall be
notified by mail of the decision to grant or deny the request. (Ord. 02, 6-5-
2001)
1-8-9: ADMINISTRATIVE RULES:
The city clerk may issues rules for the implementation of this chapter. (Ord.
02, 6-5-2001)
CHAPTER 9
HEARING EXAMINER SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-9-1: Purpose
1-9-2: Laws Adopted
1-9-3: Office Created
1-9-4: Hearing Examiner Restrictions
1-9-5: Rules
1-9-6: Decisions; Legal Effect
1-9-7: Planning Department Report
1-9-8: Planning Commission And City Council Meetings
1-9-9: Reconsideration
1-9-10: Appeals
1-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish the authority and process for
regulatory hearings which will provide:
   A.   A prompt opportunity for a hearing and decision on certain land use
permits, appeals, alleged violations of land use regulations and such other
matters as may be assigned to the hearing examiner.
   B.   Procedural due process and the appearance of fairness by conducting
hearings before a fair and impartial examiner competent in the fields of land
use and regulatory requirements. (Ord. 27, 8-7-2001)
1-9-2: LAWS ADOPTED:
   A.   Spokane County Resolutions: Pursuant to RCW 35A.12.140, the city hereby
incorporates by reference chapter 1.46 of the Spokane County code, where the
same are not inconsistent with this chapter. In the event of an inconsistency
between this chapter and the adopted Spokane County provisions, this chapter
and other city ordinances and rules shall supersede and control. (Ord. 27, 8-7-
2001)
   B.   Hearing Examiner System: Pursuant to RCW 35A.63.170, 36.70B.120(3),
35A.11.020, and 35A.21.160, the city council has the authority and desires to
adopt a hearing examiner system as an alternative to delegating to a planning
commission (or other citizen comprised decision making body) the power and duty
to hear and decide various quasi-judicial matters. By adopting a hearing
examiner system, the legal effect of the hearing examiner decisions shall
depending on the matter be: 1) a recommendation to the city council; 2) an
administrative decision appealable to the city council; or 3) except for a
rezone of property, a final decision of the city council. The mayor shall
recommend execution of a contract for the services of a hearing examiner who
shall conduct public hearings and render decisions on matters delegated by the
city council. (Ord. 30, 8-7-2001)
1-9-3: OFFICE CREATED:
Pursuant to RCW chapters 35A.63 and 58.17, the office of hearing examiner is
hereby created. The examiner will interpret, review and implement land use
regulations and other regulatory requirements and perform such other duties as
may be assigned. The term examiner includes deputy examiner, examiner pro tem
or substitute examiner.
   A.   Appointment: The examiner will be appointed through interlocal
agreement.
   B.   Qualifications: Examiners will be appointed solely with regard to their
qualifications for the duties of the office and must have training and
experience in land use planning and zoning issues including a license to
practice law in the state of Washington. The experience must be such as will
qualify them to conduct their administrative or quasi-judicial hearings or
regulatory enactments and to discharge the other functions conferred upon them.
Examiners will hold no other elective or appointive office or position in the
city.
   C.   Compensation: The examiner is a contract position. Compensation will be
as negotiated between the city and the examiner. (Ord. 27, 8-7-2001)
1-9-4: HEARING EXAMINER RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Freedom From Improper Influence: No person shall attempt to influence
an examiner in any matter pending before the examiner, except publicly at a
public hearing duly called for such purpose, or to interfere with an examiner
in the performance of the examiner's duties in any other way; provided, that
this section will not prohibit the city attorney from rendering legal services
to the examiner.
   B.   Conflict Of Interest: No examiner shall conduct or participate in any
hearing, decision or recommendation in which the examiner has a direct or
indirect substantial financial interest, or concerning which the examiner has
had substantial prehearing contacts with proponents or opponents wherein the
issues were discussed; nor, on appeal from or review of an examiner's decision,
shall any member of the legislative body who has such an interest or has had
such contacts participate in the consideration thereof. This is not intended to
prohibit necessary or proper inquiries on matters such as scheduling, but any
such contacts are to be entered into the official record of the hearing.
Whenever possible, such inquiries and the responses to such inquiries shall be
in writing.
   C.   Office Separate From Planning Department: The office of the examiner
will be separate from and not a part of the planning department. (Ord. 27, 8-7-
2001)
1-9-5: RULES:
The examiner will prescribe rules for the scheduling and conduct of hearings
and other procedural matters related to the duties of his office. The rules for
a hearing will provide for the taking of sworn testimony and rebuttal, and may
authorize the examiner to limit the time allowed to parties testifying on an
equal basis and time limits on rebutting. Cross examination of witnesses may be
allowed by the examiner. (Ord. 27, 8-7-2001)
1-9-6: DECISIONS; LEGAL EFFECT:
The examiner will receive and examine available information, conduct public
hearings and prepare a record thereof, and enter findings, decision or
recommendations as provided in this section.
   A.   The decision of the examiner on the following matters will be final,
unless such decision is appealed to superior court in writing by an aggrieved
party:
      1.   Applications for variances from the zoning ordinance.
      2.   Conditional use permits.
      3.   Special use permits.
      4.   Shoreline permits.
   B.   The decision of the examiner on the following matters will be a
recommendation to the city council:
      1.   Rezone of property.
      2.   Planned unit development and binding site plans.
      3.   Preliminary plats.
      4.   Appeals of administrative detection of ordinance violations,
interpretations or other matters.
      5.   Appeals from administrative determinations of interpretations of
land use regulations or permits.
   C.   In the performance of duties prescribed by this chapter or other
ordinances, the examiner may:
      1.   Administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, rule upon
offers of proof, receive relevant evidence and allow discovery pursuant to
Washington state court rules; provided, that no person shall be compelled to
divulge information which he could not be compelled to divulge in a court of
law;
      2.   Upon the request of the city, any party, or upon the examiner's own
volition, issue and cause to be served subpoenas for the attendance of
witnesses and for production for examination of any books, records or other
information in the possession or under the control of any witness; provided,
that such subpoena will state the name and address of the witness sought, and
if for the production of books, documents or things, will specifically identify
the same and then relevance thereof to the issues involved. In case of failure
or refusal without lawful excuse of any person duly subpoenaed to attend
pursuant to such subpoena, or to be sworn, or to answer any material and proper
question, or to produce upon reasonable notice any material or property books
or records or other information in his possession and under his control, the
examiner may invoke the aid of the city attorney who will apply to the
appropriate court for an order or other court action necessary to secure
enforcement of the subpoena;
      3.   Regulate the course of the hearing in accord with this chapter and
other applicable ordinances;
      4.   Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues
by consent of the parties;
      5.   Dispose of procedural requests or similar matters;
      6.   Take such other action as is reasonable and necessary.
   D.   The examiner is hereby empowered to act in lieu of the board of
adjustment, the planning commission and such other official, boards or
commissions as may be assigned for land use issues listed in section
1-9-7 of this chapter, and other land use issues authorized by the city
council. Wherever existing ordinances, codes or policies authorize or direct
the board of adjustment, planning commission or other official, boards or
commissions to undertake certain activities which the examiner has been
assigned, such ordinances, codes or policies will be construed to refer to the
examiner. (Ord. 27, 8-7-2001)
1-9-7: PLANNING DEPARTMENT REPORT:
On any land use issue coming before the examiner, the planning department will
coordinate and assemble the review of other city departments, governmental
agencies and other interested parties and will prepare a report summarizing the
factors involved and the department's findings and recommendations. At least
five (5) calendar days prior to the scheduled hearing, the report will be filed
with the examiner and copies thereof mailed to the applicant and made available
for public inspection. Copies thereof will be provided to interested parties
upon payment of reproduction costs. In the event that information to be
provided by the applicant or other parties, outside of city control has not
been provided in sufficient time for filing five (5) days in advance of the
hearing, the hearing examiner may reschedule the hearing and notify interested
parties. (Ord. 27, 8-7-2001)
1-9-8: PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS:
The examiner must report in writing to and, if requested, meet with the
planning commission and city council at least annually for the purpose of
reviewing the administration of the land use policies and regulatory
ordinances, and any amendments to city ordinances or other policies or
procedures which would improve the performance of the examiner process. Such
report must include a summary of the examiner's decision since the last report.
(Ord. 27, 8-7-2001)
1-9-9: RECONSIDERATION:
Any aggrieved person upon good cause that the decision of the examiner is based
on erroneous procedures, errors of law or fact, error in judgment or the
discovery of new evidence which could not be reasonably available at the prior
hearing, may make a written request for reconsideration by the examiner within
fourteen (14) days of the date the decision is rendered. This request must set
forth the specific errors or new information relied upon by such appellant. The
examiner may, after review of the record, take further action as appropriate.
(Ord. 27, 8-7-2001)
1-9-10: APPEALS:
Unless provided otherwise by this chapter or statute, any aggrieved person may
submit a written appeal of the examiner's decision to the city council within
fourteen (14) calendar days from the date the final decision of the examiner is
rendered. The city council shall hold a hearing on the appeal.
Such appeal must be upon the record, established and made at the hearing,
provided that new evidence which was not available at the time of the hearing
may be included in such appeal. The term "new evidence" means only evidence
discovered after the hearing and shall not include evidence which was available
or which could reasonably have been available and was simply not presented at
the hearing for whatever reason.
Such written appeal shall allege specific errors of fact, specific procedural
errors, omissions from the record, errors in the interpretation of the
comprehensive plan or new evidence which was not available at the time of the
hearing.
Upon such written appeal being filed within the time period allotted and upon
payment of fees as required, a hearing will be held by the city council. Such
hearing will be held in accordance with appeal procedures adopted by the city
council. If the examiner has recommended approvals of the proposal, such
recommendation will be considered by the city council at the same time as the
consideration of the appeal. (Ord. 27, 8-7-2001)
CHAPTER 10
CODE OF ETHICS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Declaration Of Policy
1-10-2: Code Of Ethics
1-10-3: Nepotism
1-10-4: Social Media
1-10-5: Disclosure
1-10-6: Civil Penalties
1-10-7: Responsibilities Of Hearing Examiner
1-10-8: Enforcement Procedures
1-10-9: False Charge Of Misconduct
1-10-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
High moral and ethical standards among public officials and public employees
are essential to gain and maintain the confidence of the public because such
confidence is essential to the conduct of free government. Public officials and
public employees are agents of the people and hold their positions for the
benefit of the people. The proper operation of democratic government requires
that public officials and employees be independent and impartial when
establishing policy and that their positions never be used for personal gain. A
code of ethical conduct is necessary for the guidance of public officials where
conflicts do occur as well as to prevent conflicts of interest. (Ord. 234, 12-
20-2016; amd. Ord. 234A, 2-22-2021)
1-10-2: CODE OF ETHICS:
   A.   The purpose of the code of ethics is to assist City officials in
establishing guidelines to govern their own conduct as it relates to official
City business. The code is also intended to help develop traditions of
responsible public service. This Code of Ethics shall apply to all members of
the City Council, Planning Commission, and other City Boards and Commissions
(hereinafter collectively "Representatives"). Representatives shall be deemed
to have violated this Code of Ethics if he or she:
      1.   Receives or has any financial interest in any sale to or by the City
of any service or property when such financial interest was received with the
prior knowledge that the City intended to purchase such property or obtain such
service;
      2.   Accepts or seeks for others any service, information or thing of
value on more favorable terms than those granted to the public generally, from
any person, firm or corporation having dealings with the City;
      3.   Accepts any gift or favor from any person, firm or corporation
having any dealings with the City if he or she knows or has reason to know that
it was intended to obtain special consideration;
      4.   Influences the selection of or the conduct of business with a
corporation, person or firm having business with the City if he or she
personally or through household relatives has financial interest in or with the
corporation, person or firm;
      5.   Is an employee, officer, partner, director or consultant of any
corporation, firm or person having business with the City, unless he or she has
disclosed such relationship as provided by this chapter; provided, that nothing
herein shall be deemed to apply to consultants who render professional advice
to corporations, firms or persons on matters unrelated to the business with the
City. This provision shall not apply if the official or employee disqualifies
himself or herself from all participation in the City business with the
corporation, firm or person;
      6.   Engages in or accepts private employment or renders services for
private industry when such employment or service is incompatible with the
proper discharge of his or her official duties, would impair his or her
independence of judgment or action in the performance of his or her official
duties, or would require or induce him or her to disclose confidential
information acquired by reason of his or her official position;
      7.   Appears on behalf of a private interest before any regulatory
governmental agency against the interest of the City, or represents a private
interest in any action or proceeding against the interest of the City in any
litigation to which the City is a party, unless he or she has a personal
interest and this personal interest has been disclosed to the regulatory
governmental agency. A City Councilmember may appear before regulatory
governmental agencies on behalf of constituents in the course of his or her
duties as a representative of the electorate or in the performance of public or
civic obligations; however, no Representative shall accept a retainer or
compensation that is contingent upon a specific action by a City agency;
      8.   Directly or indirectly possess a substantial or controlling interest
in any business entity which conducts business or contracts with the City, or
in the sale of real estate, materials, supplies or services to the City,
without disclosing such interest as provided by this chapter. An interest is
not a substantial interest if such interest does not exceed one-tenth of one
percent of the outstanding securities of the business concern; or, if the
interest is an unincorporated business concern, one percent of the net worth of
such concern, or the financial interest of a corporation, person or firm does
not exceed five percent (5%) of the net worth of the employee and his or her
household relatives;
      9.   As a City Councilmember, has a financial or other private interest
in any legislation or other matters coming before the council and fails to
disclose such an interest on the records of the City Council. This provision
shall not apply if the City Councilmember disqualifies himself or herself from
voting by stating the nature and extent of such interest. Any other official or
employee who has a financial or other private interest, and who participates in
discussion with or gives an official opinion to the City Council and fails to
disclose on the records of the City Council the nature and extent of such
interest is in violation of this chapter;
      10.   Violates any ordinance or resolution of the City;
      11.   Discloses confidential information gained by reason of his or her
official position or otherwise uses such information for his or her personal
gain or benefit;
      12.   Makes any false statement or representation of any public record or
document in a willful disregard of the truth of such statement or
representation;
      13.   Request or permit the use of City-owned vehicles, equipment,
materials or property for personal convenience, improper purposes, or profit,
except when such services are available to the public generally or are provided
as City policy for the use of such official in the conduct of official
business;
      14.   Grants any special consideration, treatment or advantage beyond
that which is available to every other citizen in similar circumstances;
      15.   Knowingly and in willful disregard of section
1-10-3 violates or influences any other person to violate the nepotism policy
set forth in section
1-10-3;
      16.   Violates any provision of Chapter 42.20 or 42.23 RCW;
      17.   Violates the appearance of fairness doctrine in Chapter 42.36 RCW.
(Ord. 234, 12-20-2016; amd. Ord. 234A, 2-22-2021)
1-10-3: NEPOTISM:
   A.   In order to prevent conflicts of interest, the City limits employment
of immediate family, as defined in these policies, under any or all of the
following circumstances:
      1.   Where an immediate family member would have authority (or practical
power) to supervise, appoint, remove, or discipline the other;
      2.   Where an immediate family member would be responsible for auditing
the work of the other;
      3.   Where both parties would report to the same immediate supervisor;
      4.   Where, in order to avoid the reality or appearance of improper
influence or favor, or to protect confidentiality, the City must limit the
employment of immediate family members of policy level officers of any agency
or organization currently dealing with the City or which could reasonably be
expected to deal with the City in the future;
      5.   Where other circumstances might lead to potential conflict among the
parties or conflict between the interest of one or both parties and the best
interests of the City;
      6.   Where an immediate family member, other than a spouse, is a public
official. If an employee's spouse is a public official, then a prohibited
conflict of interest exists if any or all of subsections A1 through A4 of this
section apply.
   B.   For purposes of this section, "immediate family" means the public
official's or employee's spouse, registered domestic partner, child, parent,
brother and sister, mother and father-in-law, son and daughter-in-law, aunt and
uncle, grandparents, grandchildren, step relatives, domestic partner relatives
in one of these relationships, or other relative, and who lives in the same
home of the public official or employee. (Ord. 234, 12-20-2016; amd. Ord. 234A,
2-22-2021)
1-10-4: SOCIAL MEDIA:
   A.   Purpose; Applicability And Standards; Authority:
      1.   This section identifies the roles, responsibilities, and best
practice recommendations for the use of social media by City Representatives.
The City is committed to open and progressive communications between its
Representatives and their constituents utilizing available and future online
technologies within the limits of the law.
      2.   This policy applies to any social media site or tool used by
Representatives in their official or employment capacity to communicate with
constituents or the general public. Where indicated, certain provisions of this
policy shall apply only to social media sites/tools that are owned or
maintained by the City of Liberty Lake, including sites/tools that are
established by the City for its' Representatives. It is primarily each
Representatives responsibility to ensure compliance with this policy.
      3.   It is the City's preference and intent that Representatives will not
utilize social media to communicate in their official or employment capacity
except through social media sites/tools that are owned or maintained by the
City of Liberty Lake. The use of private social media sites/tools for this
purpose is strongly discouraged.
      4.   While social media, with its use of popular abbreviations and
shorthand, does not adhere to standard conventions of correspondence, the
content and tenor of online conversations, discussions, and information posts
and comments should model the same professional behavior displayed during
Council meetings and community meetings.
      5.   Social media are not to be used by Representatives as mechanisms for
conducting official City business other than to informally communicate with the
public. Examples of business that may not be conducted through social media
include: making policy decisions, official public noticing, and discussing
confidential City matters that have not been approved for release to the
public. Representatives' social media site(s) should contain links directing
users back to the City's official website for in-depth information, forms,
documents, or online services necessary to conduct official city business.
      6.   The City Administrator shall have primary responsibility to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter with respect to social
media sites/tools that are owned or maintained by the City of Liberty Lake. The
City Administrator may cause categories of official City of Liberty Lake social
media applications, tools, or sites to be permanently or temporarily
discontinued if they are not or cannot be used in compliance with this policy.
The City Administrator shall exercise such discretion in a viewpoint-neutral,
evenhanded, and non-arbitrary manner. If Representatives are aggrieved by an
administrative decision or enforcement action of the City Administrator they
may request an informal hearing with the Hearing Examiner to challenge such
decision or action consistent with section
1-10-8.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following shall be defined
as:
CHAT:                A feature that allows instant messages to be sent.
                     Includes members, individually or collectively, of the
CITY COUNCIL MEMBER: Liberty Lake City Council, and any employees working on
                     behalf of said member(s) to represent him or her, using a
                     social media tool.
COMMENT:             A response to a post, an article or other social media
                     content submitted by a visitor.
                     A feature that allows users to show their support for a
                     specific comments, pictures, wall posts, statuses, or fan
LIKE:                pages. The "Like" button allows users to show their
                     appreciation for content without having to make a written
                     comment.
                     Includes the Mayor of the City of Liberty Lake and any
MAYOR:               employees working on behalf of the Mayor to represent him
                     or her, using a social media tool.
POST:                An original entry onto a social media site by the user of
                     the site.
                     Includes, but is not limited to, the Mayor, all members of
REPRESENTATIVES:     the City of Liberty Lake City Council, Planning
                     Commission, and other City Board and Commission members.
SHARING:             To relay a previously created post onto a different social
                     media site.
                     Third-party hosted online technologies that facilitate
                     social interactions and dialogue. These online
                     technologies are operated by non-city hosted services and
                     may be used by the Mayor or City Council Members to
SOCIAL MEDIA:        communicate with the public. Such third party hosted
                     services/tools may include, but are not limited to: social
                     networking sites (MySpace, Facebook, Linked-In), micro-
                     blogging tools (Twitter, RSS feeds), audiovisual
                     networking sites (YouTube, Flickr), and blogs and similar
                     sites.
TAGGING:             A mechanism of linking a person, page or place to a post.
VISITOR:             A person who views the Mayor or City Council Member's
                     social media site.
 
   C.   Records Retention Act Compliance:
      1.   State and local records retention laws and schedules apply to social
media content. All social media content that is required to be retained shall
be maintained for the legally required retention period based on the subject
matter of the content. Prior approval of the retention format and procedures
for each social media tool being used must be received from the City
Administrator upon the advice and recommendations of the Public Records Officer
and City Clerk. Except for social media sites/tools that are owned or
maintained by the City of Liberty Lake, which will be retained through the
City's archiving system, it is the ultimate responsibility of Representatives
to maintain current, approved retention procedures and to ensure that those
procedures are followed.
      2.   As with any correspondence sent in his or her capacity, as
applicable, Representatives postings to social media sites maintained by others
must be retained by the Representatives to the extent that such content
constitutes a "public record" as defined by Chapter 42.56 RCW. Printouts of
postings to others' sites may suffice for retention purposes.
      3.   Representatives should consult with the City Administrator or City
Clerk for the applicable retention schedule and method.
   D.   Public Records Act Compliance:
      1.   Content maintained in a social media format that is related to City
business, including communication between individual Representatives and
constituents or the general public, and a site's listing of "friends" or
"followers", may be considered a public record subject to disclosure under the
state Public Records Act.
      2.   Any social media tools used should clearly sate that all content
submitted by members of the public is potentially subject to public disclosure
pursuant to the Public Records Act, RCW 42.56. If it is not possible to display
this notice prominently on the site, Representatives should notify users by
including a link from the site to the Public Records Act, notify new users via
responses to posts, and/or periodically notify existing users via broadcast
message.
      3.   Under the state Public Records Act, the City is potentially
responsible for responding accurately and completely to any public records
request, including a request for public records on social media maintained by
individual Representatives. Therefore, it is mandatory that records have been
retained for the legally required retention period in accordance with
applicable standards.
      4.   Users of, and visitors to, social media sites shall be notified that
public disclosure requests must be directed to the appropriate City Public
Records Officer pursuant to the City's Public Records Disclosure Policy.
   E.   Open Public Meetings Act And Appearance Of Fairness Doctrine
Compliance:
      1.   Communication between City Council Members via social media, as with
telephone and email, may potentially constitute a "meeting" under the Open
Public Meetings Act, Chapter 42.30 RCW. For this reason, City Council Members
are prohibited from participating in social media discussions/threads regarding
City business that involve a quorum of City Council Members, and are strongly
discouraged from "friending" other City Council Members or "liking" other City
Council Members' posts.
      2.   In addition, receiving or making posts or comments regarding quasi-
judicial matters via social media may violate City Council policy, local or
state law, including Chapter 42.36 RCW - Appearance of Fairness Doctrine. To
avoid receiving any comments on pending quasi-judicial matters that may violate
the Appearance of Fairness Doctrine, City Council Members are strongly
encouraged to maintain social media sites with settings that can restrict
users' ability to post content.
   F.   Equal Access: Representatives are discouraged, in their official
capacity, from posting or commenting on social media sites that require
membership or subscription. When posting information or soliciting feedback on
such a site, Representatives should always provide an alternate source for the
same information or mechanism for feedback on the City's public website so that
those that are not members of the social media site may have equal access.
(Ord. 234, 12-20-2016; amd. Ord. 234A, 2-22-2021)
1-10-5: DISCLOSURE:
Disclosure as required by this chapter shall be in writing and filed with the
City Clerk. Disclosure shall be made as soon as the person becomes aware of the
facts giving rise to the disclosure requirements. An oral disclosure made at a
regular or special City Council meeting shall constitute compliance with this
section. The oral disclosure shall be included in the official minutes of the
Council meeting. (Ord. 234, 12-20-2016; amd. Ord. 234A, 2-22-2021)
1-10-6: CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   Any member of a City Board or Commission found guilty of a violation of
this chapter may be suspended or removed from office by action of the City
Council through a majority vote of the City Council Members,
   B.   Any member of the City Council found guilty of a violation of this
chapter in addition to any other penalties permitted by law may a) receive a
written reprimand in a letter approved by the majority vote of the other City
Councilmembers, b) a censure by written statement approved by majority vote of
the other City Councilmembers and administered personally to the individual
Councilmember in open session of the City Council, c) suspension, or d) removal
from office for repeated violations as determined and approved by a majority
vote of the other City Council members.
   C.   In addition to the sanctions for aiding, abetting, seeking or
requesting a violation of this chapter, any person or organization which
willfully attempts to secure preferential treatment in its dealing with the
City by offering any valuable gifts, whether in the form of services, loan,
thing or promise, or any other form to any City official or employee, shall
have its current contract with the City canceled and shall not be able to bid
on any other City contracts for a period of two (2) years. (Ord. 234, 12-20-
2016; amd. Ord. 234A, 2-22-2021)
1-10-7: RESPONSIBILITIES OF HEARING EXAMINER:
   A.   There is hereby delegated to the Hearing Examiner the responsibilities
set forth in sections
1-10-4 and
1-10-8 relating to enforcement procedures of this Code of Ethics. Once an
allegation or complaint has been filed with the office of the City Clerk and
notice of such filing has been transmitted to the Hearing Examiner, which
notice shall not set forth any names or details concerning the complaint, the
Hearing Examiner shall conduct an investigation; provided, that in the event a
complaint shall involve in some manner the office of the Hearing Examiner, the
matter shall be referred to the City Attorney for investigation, all in
accordance with the procedures outlined herein.
   B.   The Hearing Examiner is also authorized to issue advisory opinions upon
request of City officials concerning the applicability of this chapter to
specific factual situations. Administrative employees under the supervision of
the Mayor concerned with the applicability of this chapter to specific factual
situations may address their concerns to the Mayor or his/her designee. (Ord.
234, 12-20-2016; amd. Ord. 234A, 2-22-2021)
1-10-8: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Any person who has knowledge of a violation of this Code of Ethics by a
person other than an administrative employee under the supervision of the Mayor
may make a signed written report of the same to the City Clerk. The fact that a
report has been received, the contents of the report, and the identity of the
person making the report shall remain confidential until such time as the
Hearing Examiner has made an initial threshold determination that probable
cause exists to believe that a violation of the Code of Ethics has occurred.
   B.   Upon receipt of a report, the Hearing Examiner, without benefit of
subpoenas or sworn testimony, shall make such preliminary investigation as he
or she deems appropriate to determine whether probable cause exists to believe
that a violation of the Code of Ethics has occurred. Once the preliminary
investigation is complete, the person accused shall be given the name(s) of the
accuser(s) and the allegations whether or not the Hearing Examiner finds
probable cause. If the Hearing Examiner is satisfied that probable cause does
exist, he or she may choose between two (2) courses of action as follows:
      1.   Refer the matter to the proper authorities for criminal prosecution;
provided, that upon a determination that the proof beyond a reasonable doubt
necessary for criminal conviction is not available, the proper authorities may
refer the matter back to the Hearing Examiner for proceedings consistent with
the civil burden of proof (e.g., a simple preponderance of the evidence); or
      2.   Retain the matter for his or her own formal investigation with a
view toward the ultimate disposition by the City Council in the event it is
determined an actual violation has occurred.
   C.   If the Hearing Examiner should determine probable cause does not exist,
he or she shall communicate his or her decision in writing to the person who
made the initial report. The Hearing Examiner's determination of lack of
probable cause shall remain confidential, unless the person who made the
initial report chooses to make his or her complaint public. Should this latter
event occur, all of the Hearing Examiner's records, files, notes,
correspondence, and investigative materials relating to the finding of lack of
probable cause shall be made open for public inspection.
   D.   Should the Hearing Examiner decide to retain the matter for his or her
own formal investigation pursuant to subsection B2 of this section, the Hearing
Examiner shall notify, in writing, the person who made the report and the
person complained against, of his or her decision to pursue a formal
investigation by way of holding a hearing to determine if a violation has
occurred. The person complained against may choose whether the hearing shall be
open or closed to the public.
   E.   Hearings conducted by the Hearing Examiner shall be informal. The
person complained against may be represented by legal counsel and may present
and cross examine witnesses and give evidence before the Hearing Examiner. The
Hearing Examiner may call witnesses on his or her own motion and compel the
production of books, records, papers, or other evidence needed. To that end,
the proper authorities shall issue subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum at the
request of the Hearing Examiner or the person complained against. All testimony
shall be under oath administered by the Hearing Examiner. The Hearing Examiner
may adjourn the hearing from time to time in order to allow for the orderly
presentation of evidence.
Upon motion made by the person complained against or upon his or her own
motion, the Hearing Examiner may temporarily stay or permanently suspend his or
her investigation when, in his or her formal discretion, the manifest needs of
justice and fairness will be better served thereby.
The Hearing Examiner shall prepare an official record of the hearing, including
all testimony, which shall be recorded by mechanical device, and exhibits;
provided, that the Hearing Examiner shall not be required to transcribe such
records unless presented with a request accompanied by payment of the cost of
transcription.
   F.   Within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of the hearing, the
Hearing Examiner shall, based upon a preponderance of the evidence, make and
fully record in his or her permanent records, findings of fact, conclusions of
law, and his or her determination of a recommended disposition. A copy of the
findings, conclusions, and recommended disposition shall be forwarded by
registered mail to the person who made the initial report and to the person
complained against at addresses as given by both persons to the Hearing
Examiner. An additional copy of the findings, conclusions, and recommendations
shall be forwarded to the City Council for its formal action, if any.
   G.   Upon receipt of the Hearing Examiner's final action, the City Council
shall schedule a public hearing. The person complained against shall have not
less than two (2) weeks' written notice of this hearing. At this hearing the
Hearing Examiner, the person complained against, and other interested parties
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard, following which the City
Council may adopt, reject, amend, or modify the Hearing Examiner's findings,
conclusions, and recommendations, or remand the matter for further
investigation and consideration by the Hearing Examiner. The Council's decision
shall be in writing, setting forth its findings, conclusions, and in
appropriate cases, the civil sanction(s) imposed.
   H.   After a complaint has been filed and during the pendency of a
complaint, members of the City Council shall not discuss, directly or
indirectly, with any party or other person about any issue or fact or law
regarding the complaint, except as part of the investigation or disposition of
the complaint.
   I.   Neither the City nor any Representatives may take or threaten to take,
directly or indirectly, official or personal action, including but not limited
to discharge, discipline, personal attack, harassment, intimidation, or change
in job, salary, responsibilities, against any person because that person filed
a complaint. (Ord. 234, 12-20-2016; amd. Ord. 234A, 2-22-2021)
1-10-9: FALSE CHARGE OF MISCONDUCT:
Any person who shall file with or report a charge of misconduct on the part of
any public official or other person encompassed within the definition of this
chapter, knowing such charge to be false or to have been recklessly made
without any reasonable attempt to determine relevant facts and circumstances,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1. In addition, the City Administrator may request that the Hearing
Examiner make a finding that a complaint brought pursuant to this Code of
Ethics is frivolous and without merit. Upon such a finding, the person making
such a complaint may be liable to the City for the cost of any investigation,
if applicable. If the complainant is a City employee, he or she may be subject
to disciplinary action as set forth in section
1-10-6 and any other action applicable to a City employee, including but not
limited to, termination of employment. (Ord. 234, 12-20-2016; amd. Ord. 234A,
2-22-2021)
TITLE 2
REVENUE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL FUNDS
SECTION:
2-1-1: General Fund Accounts
2-1-2: Street Fund
2-1-3: Harvard Road Mitigation Fund
2-1-3-1: Harvard Road Bridge Widening Fund
2-1-4: Transportation Benefit District Fund
2-1-5: Liberty Lake Outlet Channel Trail Fund
2-1-6: Golf And Recreational Fund
2-1-7: Pedestrian/Bicycle Bridge Fund
2-1-8: Tourism Promotion Area Fund (TPA)
2-1-9: Underground Utility Fund
2-1-10: Community Messaging Fund
2-1-11: Building/Equipment Contingency Fund
2-1-1: GENERAL FUND ACCOUNTS:
   A.   General: There is hereby established a fund to be known as the General
Fund out of which current expenses of the City shall be paid, and which will be
used to account for financial transactions of the general operating functions
of City departments, and to account for those transactions not properly
accounted for in another fund. (Ord. 12, 6-12-2001)
   B.   General Fund Petty Cash: The Mayor or his designee is hereby authorized
to establish a General Fund petty cash account in such amounts as the Mayor may
from time to time, in writing, determine necessary for the efficient handling
of the purposes for which the fund is established but not to exceed four
hundred dollars ($400.00). This fund is established to facilitate minor
authorized disbursements and the making of change. The fund shall be
administered by the Mayor, Finance Director or designees, in accordance with
rules or policies providing for such lawful administration. (Ord. 04, 6-5-2001)
   C.   General Fund Change Making: The Mayor or designee is hereby authorized
to establish a General Fund cash account in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100.00). This fund is established to facilitate minor authorized cash
transactions for the making of change. The fund shall be administered by the
Mayor, Finance Director, or designees, in accordance with rules or policies
providing for such lawful administration. (Ord. 116, 6-3-2003)
2-1-2: STREET FUND:
There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Street Fund into which
shall be paid all monies received by the City as Diverted Road Taxes pursuant
to Revised Code of Washington 35.02.140, and into which may be paid monies
received by the City as distributions, pursuant to Revised Code of Washington
46.68.090(1)(i), of the Motor Vehicle Fuel Taxes imposed by the State. Monies
in the fund shall be used generally by the City for planning, establishing,
constructing, repairing and maintaining City streets, sidewalks and
appurtenances, including pedestrian and bicycle paths, lanes and routes.
However, nothing herein shall prohibit the City Council from appropriating such
additional monies to the fund as may be deemed necessary. Accounting and
reporting procedures as to all street expenditures shall comply with the
current manual of instructions published by the State auditor. (Ord. 12, 6-12-
2001)
2-1-3: HARVARD ROAD MITIGATION FUND:
There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Harvard Road Mitigation
Fund into which shall be deposited monies received by the City with
expenditures authorized as are properly chargeable to the fund pursuant to
section
8-3-5 of this Code. Monies in the fund shall be used for all purposes
consistent with the Harvard Road mitigation plan including, but not limited to,
the planning, developing and constructing of the improvements set forth in the
plan including reasonably related administrative expenses. The fund accounting
and all expenditures shall be according to rules developed by the State
auditor. Annually during the budget process, the City shall estimate revenues
and anticipated appropriations for this fund. (Ord. 83, 3-5-2002)
2-1-3-1: HARVARD ROAD BRIDGE WIDENING FUND:
There is hereby established a fund to be known as the "Harvard Road Bridge
Widening Fund", into which shall be deposited monies appropriated by the City
Council through the budget process with expenditures authorized as are properly
chargeable to the fund. Monies in the fund shall be used for all purposes
consistent with the Harvard Road Bridge Widening project, including but not
limited to the planning, developing and construction of the improvements set
forth in the plan and reasonably related administrative expenses. The fund
accounting and all expenditures shall be according to rules developed by the
State auditor. Annually, the City, during the budget process, shall estimate
revenues and anticipated appropriations for the above funds. (Ord. 249, 8-21-
2018)
2-1-4: TRANSPORTATION BENEFIT DISTRICT FUND:
There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Transportation Benefit
District Fund into which shall be deposited monies received by the City with
expenditures authorized as are properly chargeable to the fund pursuant to
section
8-2-3 of this Code. Monies in the fund shall be used for the planning,
establishing, constructing, repairing and maintaining of the trail system
identified by the Transportation Benefit District including reasonably related
administrative expenses. The fund accounting and all expenditures shall be
according to rules developed by the State auditor. Annually during the budget
process, the City shall estimate revenues and anticipated appropriations for
this fund. (Ord. 83, 3-5-2002)
2-1-5: LIBERTY LAKE OUTLET CHANNEL TRAIL FUND:
There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Outlet Channel Trail Fund
into which shall be deposited monies received by the City with expenditures
authorized as are properly chargeable to the fund pursuant to section
8-2-3 of this Code. Monies in the fund shall be used for all purposes
consistent with the Transportation Benefit District including, but not limited
to, the planning, developing and constructing the improvements set forth in the
plan including reasonably related administrative expenses. The fund accounting
and all expenditures shall be according to rules developed by the State
auditor. Annually during the budget process, the City shall estimate revenues
and anticipated appropriations for the above funds. (Ord. 91, 6-4-2002)
2-1-6: GOLF AND RECREATIONAL FUND:
   A.   Liberty Lake Golf Course And Recreational Fund: There is hereby
established a fund to be known as the Liberty Lake Golf Course and Recreational
Fund into which monies shall be deposited and received by the City with
expenditures authorized as are properly chargeable to the fund. Monies in the
fund shall be used for all purposes consistent with the general operation and
maintenance of the fund. The fund accounting and all expenditures shall be
according to rules developed by the State auditor. Annually during the budget
process, the City shall estimate revenues and anticipated appropriations for
this fund. (Ord. 97, 8-6-2002)
   B.   Golf Fund Change Making Account: The Mayor or designee is hereby
authorized to establish a Golf Fund cash account in the amount of four hundred
dollars ($400.00). This fund is established to facilitate minor authorized cash
transactions for the making of change. The fund shall be administered by the
Mayor, Finance Director, or designees, in accordance with rules or policies
providing for such lawful administration. (Ord. 116-A, 5-1-2012)
2-1-7: PEDESTRIAN/BICYCLE BRIDGE FUND:
There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Pedestrian/Bicycle Bridge
Fund into which shall be deposited monies received by the City with
expenditures authorized as are properly chargeable to the fund. Monies in the
fund shall be used for all purposes consistent with the development and
construction of a pedestrian/bicycle bridge. Expenditures include, but are not
limited to, the planning, developing and constructing of the improvements set
forth in the plan including reasonably related administrative expenses. The
fund accounting and all expenditures shall be according to rules developed by
the State auditor. Annually, the City, during the budget process, shall
estimate revenues and anticipated appropriations for the above funds. (Ord.
136, 3-1-2005)
2-1-8: TOURISM PROMOTION AREA FUND (TPA):
There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Tourism Promotion Area
Fund into which the City shall deposit monies from revenue received per chapter
6 of this title. This fund shall be used for the revenue collection and
disbursement for activities designed to increase tourism promotion and
convention businesses within the specified tourism area; marketing of
convention business and trade shows that benefit local businesses; marketing of
Liberty Lake to the travel industry in order to benefit local tourism and
lodging businesses; and marketing of Liberty Lake to recruit major sporting
events in order to promote local tourism and to benefit the lodging business
within the
   TPA.   (Ord. 134, 12-21-2004)
2-1-9: UNDERGROUND UTILITY FUND:
There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Underground Utility Fund,
into which shall be deposited monies appropriated by the City Council through
the budget process with expenditures authorized as are properly chargeable to
the fund. Monies in the fund shall be used for all purposes consistent with the
undergrounding of utilities as identified in the City of Liberty Lake capital
facilities plan ("CFP"), including, but not limited to, the planning,
developing and construction of the improvements as set forth in the CFP,
including reasonably related administrative expenses. (Ord. 226, 2-16-2016)
2-1-10: COMMUNITY MESSAGING FUND:
There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Community Messaging Fund,
into which shall be deposited monies appropriated by the City Council through
the budget process with expenditures authorized as are properly chargeable to
the fund. Monies in the fund shall be used for all purposes consistent with the
community messaging as identified in the City of Liberty Lake capital
facilities plan including, but not limited to, the planning, developing and
construction of the improvements as set forth in the CFP, including reasonably
related administrative expenses. (Ord. 226, 2-16-2016)
2-1-11: BUILDING/EQUIPMENT CONTINGENCY FUND:
There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Building/Equipment
Contingency Fund into which shall be deposited monies appropriated by the City
Council through the budget process with expenditures authorized as are properly
chargeable to the fund. Monies in the fund shall be used for all purposes
consistent with meeting any Municipal expense, the necessity or extent of which
could not have been foreseen or reasonably evaluated at the time of adopting
the annual budget, or from which to provide monies for those emergencies
described in Revised Code of Washington 35A.33.080 and 35A.33.090. (Ord. 226,
2-16-2016)
CHAPTER 2
CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Small Contracts
2-2-2: Small Works Roster
2-2-1: SMALL CONTRACTS:
Pursuant to RCW 35A.12.100, the mayor is responsible to the city council for
the proper administration of all affairs of the city. In administering the
city's affairs, the mayor shall have purchasing and contracting authority on
individual purchases of services or goods for contracts not to exceed five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) after obtaining three (3) telephone bids or quotes
on the contract for services or goods, except no telephone bid is required for
purchases below five hundred dollars ($500.00). The mayor shall select the
lowest responsible quote/bid and shall report the purchases to the city
council. Contracts more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) are subject to
city council approval. (Ord. 11, 6-12-2001)
2-2-2: SMALL WORKS ROSTER:
   A.   Small Works Roster Established:
      1.   Contents Of Roster: There is hereby established for the city in the
office of the city clerk a small works roster comprised of contractors who: a)
have requested to be on the roster; and b) are properly licensed or registered
to perform contracting work in the state of Washington. The small works roster
may be used in lieu of formal sealed competitive bid procedures to award
contracts for public work where the estimated cost of the work is two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000.00) or less. Contractors are responsible to keep
current with the office of the city clerk required information and copies of
applicable licenses, registrations, bonds, insurance or other appropriate
matters as a condition of being considered for the work. The small works roster
is created and maintained pursuant to the laws of the state of Washington as
now enacted or hereafter amended 1 .
      2.   Creation Of Separate Rosters: The city may elect to establish small
works rosters for different specialties or categories of anticipated work with
such rosters making distinctions between contractors based upon such
specialties or work.
   B.   Vendor Roster: There is hereby established for the city in the office
of the city clerk a vendor roster comprised of companies who: 1) have requested
to be on the roster; and 2) are properly licensed to do business in the state
of Washington and, if necessary, the city. The city uses a vendor roster to
purchase materials, supplies or equipment not connected to a public works
project. Contract(s) are awarded to the vendor submitting the lowest possible
bid.
   C.   Maintenance Of Roster: The small works roster and vendor roster shall
be maintained as follows:
      1.   At least once per year, the city shall publish in a newspaper of
general circulation a notice of the existence of the small works roster(s) and
vendor roster soliciting the names of contractors and service providers for
each roster. The city shall place on the small works roster and vendor roster
the names of qualified contractors and service providers who respond to the
published notice with a request to be included on the roster(s). Thereafter,
the city shall add to the roster(s) the names of contractors and vendors who
submit a written request and appropriate records.
      2.   In order to be included on the roster, the contractor or vendor
shall supply information on a contractor or vendor qualification form developed
by the city. The qualification form shall include, at a minimum, the name,
address and phone number of the contractor, the contractor's Washington
registration number, the contractor's insurance company, the contractor's
bonding company and the contractor's area or areas of work.
   D.   Use Of Roster:
      1.   The city may utilize the small works roster when seeking to
construct any public work or improvement with an estimated cost including
material, supplies and equipment of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00)
or less.
      2.   To award a public works from the roster, the city shall either
invite bids or proposals from at least five (5) qualified contractors on the
small works roster or from all contractors on the small works roster. If the
cost of the public work is estimated to be less than thirty five thousand
dollars ($35,000.00), the city may elect to solicit three (3) written
quotations from the roster. In the event the city elects to receive quotations
from less than all contractors on the roster, the city shall attempt to
equitably distribute the opportunity to bid on the public works in such a
manner so as to avoid favoritism to any individual contractor.
      3.   The invitation to submit bids shall include a description by the
city of the scope and nature of the work to be performed, the materials and
equipment to be furnished and the time and date when the bids must be received.
      4.   When awarding a contract for work from the small works roster, the
city shall award the contract to the lowest responsible bidder, provided the
city reserves the right under applicable law to reject any or all bids and to
waive procedural irregularities in the bid or bidding process.
In addition to price, the city shall take into account the following when
determining the "lowest responsible bidder":
         a.   The ability, capacity and skill to perform the contract.
         b.   Whether the contractor can perform the required work within the
time specified by the city.
         c.   Quality of the contractor’s performance under previous contracts
with the city or other governmental entity.
         d.   The previous and existing compliance by the contractor with laws
relating to contracts for public works or services with the city.
      5.   Once a contractor has been afforded an opportunity to submit a bid,
that contractor shall not be offered another opportunity until all other
appropriate contractors on the small works roster have been afforded an
opportunity to submit a bid. Any tendered bid may be revised or withdrawn prior
to the time and date the city has established for receipt.
      6.   The city may receive bids telephonically, in writing or
electronically. The time and date of receipt shall be recorded to ensure all
bids are presented in a timely fashion for review and consideration. After
expiration of the time and date for submission of all bids or quotations, the
mayor or his designee shall review the same and either offer a contract to
perform the public work or submit the same to the city council for approval.
      7.   Immediately after an award is made, the bid quotations obtained
shall be recorded, open to public inspection and made available by telephone
inquiry. The city shall maintain a list containing the names of contractors,
registration numbers, contract amount, description of the work and the date of
award for the previous twenty four (24) months where only three (3) written
quotations have been solicited prior to award of the contract.
      8.   A contract awarded from a small works roster under this section need
not be advertised in a legal newspaper of general circulation.
   E.   Use Of Vendor Roster: The city may utilize the vendor roster when
seeking to purchase material, supplies or equipment not connected to a public
works project. (Ord. 73-A, 7-1-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. RCW §§ 35.22.620(7), 39.04.155.
CHAPTER 3
SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
2-3-1: Taxes Imposed
2-3-1-1: General Sales And Use Tax
2-3-1-2: Additional Sales And Use Tax
2-3-1-3: Local Sales And Use Tax For Affordable And Supportive Housing
2-3-2: Administration And Collection
2-3-3: Inspection Of Records
2-3-4: Penalty
2-3-1: TAXES IMPOSED:
2-3-1-1: GENERAL SALES AND USE TAX:
   A.   Imposition: There is imposed a sales and/or use tax, as the case may
be, upon every taxable event as defined in RCW chapter 82.14, as the same now
exists or may hereafter be amended, which occurs within the corporate limits of
the city. The tax shall be imposed upon and collected from those persons from
whom the state sales and/or use tax is collected pursuant to RCW chapters 82.08
and 82.12, as the same now exist or may hereafter be amended.
   B.   Tax Rate: The rate of tax imposed by subsection A of this section shall
be one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the selling price or value of the article
used as the case may be; provided, that during such period as there is in
effect a sales and/or use tax imposed by Spokane County pursuant to RCW
82.14.030(1), the rate imposed by this chapter shall be as provided in RCW
82.14.030(1), as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended. The rate as
of the effective date hereof shall be 425/1000th of one percent. (Ord. 13, 6-
12-2001)
2-3-1-2: ADDITIONAL SALES AND USE TAX:
   A.   Imposition: In addition to other taxes which may be imposed by the
city, there is imposed a separate sales and/or use tax, as the case may be,
upon the same taxable events and upon which the tax imposed pursuant to RCW
82.14.030(1) is levied, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, and as
specifically authorized by RCW 82.14.020(2).
   B.   Tax Rate: The rate of tax imposed by this section, which shall be in
addition to the rate of tax permitted to be imposed by city ordinance pursuant
to RCW 82.14.030(1), as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, shall
be one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the selling price (in the case of a sales
tax) or value of the article used (in the case of a use tax); provided that if
Spokane County shall impose a sales and/or use tax pursuant to RCW 82.14.030
(2), as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, at a rate that is
equal to or greater than the rate imposed under this chapter, then said county
shall receive fifteen percent (15%) of the city tax; provided further, that if
Spokane County shall impose a sales and/or use tax pursuant to RCW 82.14.030
(2), at a rate that is less than the rate imposed under this chapter, the
county shall receive that amount of revenues from the city tax equal to fifteen
percent (15%) of the rate of tax imposed by the county. (Ord. 14, 6-12-2001;
amd. 2004 Code)
2-3-1-3: LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX FOR AFFORDABLE AND SUPPORTIVE HOUSING:
   A.   Imposition. There is imposed a sales and use tax as authorized by
Washington State Legislature Chapter 338, Laws of 2019, which shall be codified
in Chapter 82.14 RCW, upon every taxable event, as defined in Chapter 82.14
RCW, occurring within the City of Liberty Lake. The tax shall be imposed upon
and collected from those persons from whom the State sales tax or use tax is
collected pursuant to Chapter 82.08 and 82.12 RCW.
   B.   Tax Rate. The rate of the tax imposed by City of Liberty Lake Municipal
Code Section
2-3-1-3 shall be 0.0073 percent of the selling price or value of the article
used. The tax imposed under Paragraph A of this Section shall be deducted from
the amount of tax otherwise required to be collected or paid to the Department
of Revenue under Chapter 82.08 or 82.12 RCW. The Department of Revenue will
perform the collection of such taxes on behalf of the City of Liberty Lake at
no cost to the City.
   C.   Purpose and Regulations.
      1.   The City may use the moneys collected by the tax imposed under
Paragraph A of this Section only for the following purposes:
         a.   Acquiring, rehabilitating, or constructing affordable housing,
which may include new units of affordable housing within an existing structure
or facilities providing supportive housing services under RCW 71.24.385; and
         b.   Providing the operations and maintenance costs of new units of
affordable or supportive housing; and
         c.   Providing rental assistance to tenants.
      2.   The housing and services provided under this Paragraph may only be
provided to persons whose income is at or below 60 percent of the median income
of the City.
      3.   In determining the use of funds under this Paragraph, the City must
consider the income of the individuals and families to be served, the
leveraging of the resources made available under Paragraph A, and the housing
needs within the City.
      4.   The Finance Director must report annually to the Washington State
Department of Commerce, in accordance with the Department's rules, on the
collection and use of the revenue from the tax imposed under Paragraph A.
      5.   The tax imposed by the City under Paragraph A will expire 20 years
after the date on which the tax is first imposed. The Finance Director shall
provide notice to the City Council and the Mayor of the expiration date of the
tax each year beginning three years before the expiration date, and shall also
promptly notify the City Council and the Mayor of any changes to the expiration
date.
   D.   Administration and Collection. The administration and collection of the
tax imposed by Paragraph A of this Section shall be in accordance with the
provisions of Washington State Legislature Chapter 338, Laws of 2019, which
shall be codified in Chapter 82.14 RCW. (Ord. 266, 7-7-2020)
2-3-2: ADMINISTRATION AND COLLECTION:
The administration and collection of the tax imposed by this chapter shall be
in accordance with the provisions of RCW 82.14.050, as the same now exists or
may hereafter be amended. (Ord. 13, 6-12-2001; Ord. 14, 6-12-2001)
2-3-3: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
The city consents to the inspection of such records as are necessary to the
department of revenue, pursuant to RCW 82.32.330, as the same now exists or may
hereafter be amended. The mayor is authorized to enter into an agreement with
the department of revenue for the administration of the tax. (Ord. 13, 6-12-
2001; Ord. 14, 6-12-2001)
2-3-4: PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any seller to fail or refuse to collect taxes with intent to
violate the provisions of this chapter, or to gain some advantage or benefit,
whether direct or indirect, or for any buyer to refuse to pay any tax due under
the provisions of this chapter. Any person violating any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof punished
pursuant to state law or the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 13, 6-12-2001; Ord. 14, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 4
LEASEHOLD EXCISE TAX
SECTION:
2-4-1: Tax Imposed
2-4-2: Exemptions
2-4-3: Administration And Collection
2-4-4: Penalty
2-4-1: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Imposition: There is levied and shall be collected a leasehold excise
tax on the act or privilege of occupying or using publicly owned real or
personal property through a leasehold interest, as that term as defined in RCW
82.29A.020. The leasehold excise tax shall be imposed upon and collected from
those persons holding a leasehold interest within the city on public owned
property who are required to pay a leasehold excise tax to the state department
of revenue pursuant to RCW chapter 82.29A.
   B.   Tax Rate: The city imposes a leasehold excise tax in the amount of four
percent (4%) of the taxable rent, as that term is defined in RCW 82.29A.020,
less any allowable credits in RCW 82.29A.120.
   C.   Adoption Of Other Laws: Pursuant to RCW 35A.11.020 and 35A.21.160, the
city adopts by reference the state leasehold excise tax laws, RCW chapter
82.29A and the state leasehold excise tax rules found at WAC chapter 458-29A
which are incorporated by this reference as presently written or hereafter
amended as the excise tax laws and rules of the city. (Ord. 103, 11-5-2002)
2-4-2: EXEMPTIONS:
The city exempts certain leasehold interests from this chapter pursuant to RCW
82.29A.130, 82.29A.134, 82.29A.135 and 82.29A.136. (Ord. 103, 11-5-2002)
2-4-3: ADMINISTRATION AND COLLECTION:
The city clerk/treasurer is authorized and directed to contact the Washington
state department of revenue to administer and collect the tax in accordance
with RCW 82.29A.080. The mayor is authorized to enter into a contract with the
state department of revenue for the administration, collection and disbursement
of the taxes imposed herein, pursuant to RCW 82.29A.080. A copy of the contract
shall be maintained on file in the office of the city clerk.
The city clerk is further directed to transmit a certified copy of this chapter
to the clerk of the board for Spokane County, the Washington state office of
financial management and the department of revenue. (Ord. 103, 11-5-2002)
2-4-4: PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to pay the leasehold excise tax
imposed under this chapter. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished
according to state law and/or the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 103, 11-5-2002)
CHAPTER 5
REAL ESTATE EXCISE TAX
SECTION:
2-5-1: Taxes Imposed
2-5-1-1: General Real Estate Excise Tax
2-5-1-2: Additional Real Estate Excise Tax
2-5-2: Tax Payments
2-5-3: Application Of Tax
2-5-4: Duties Of County Treasurer
2-5-5: Refunds
2-5-6: Penalty
2-5-1: TAXES IMPOSED:
2-5-1-1: GENERAL REAL ESTATE EXCISE TAX:
   A.   Imposition: Pursuant to RCW 82.46.010, there is imposed an excise tax
on each sale of real property constituting a taxable event as defined in RCW
chapter 82.45, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended. The tax
imposed under this section shall be collected from persons who are taxable by
the state under RCW chapter 82.45, as the same now exists or may hereafter be
amended, and such tax shall comply with all applicable rules, regulations, laws
and court decisions regarding real estate excise taxes as imposed by the state
under RCW chapters 82.45 and 82.46, as the same now exists or may hereafter be
amended.
   B.   Tax Rate: The rate of tax imposed by this section pursuant to RCW
82.46.010, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, shall be one-
quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the selling price of all real property upon
which this tax is imposed.
   C.   Use Of Proceeds: All proceeds from the tax imposed by this section
shall be placed by the city clerk/treasurer, or authorized designee, in the
city's capital project fund, with expenditures therefrom restricted solely to
those uses permitted by state law; namely, for any capital purpose identified
in a capital improvements plan and local capital improvements including those
listed in RCW 35.43.040.
   D.   Capital Projects Fund: There is created a special fund to be known as
the capital projects fund into which shall be deposited all proceeds of the tax
imposed by subsection A of this section. (Ord. 15, 6-12-2001)
2-5-1-2: ADDITIONAL REAL ESTATE EXCISE TAX:
   A.   Imposition: Pursuant to RCW 82.46.035, there is imposed an additional
excise tax on each sale of real property constituting a taxable event, as
defined in RCW chapter 82.45, as the same now exists or may hereafter be
amended. The tax imposed under this section shall be collected from persons who
are taxable by the state under RCW chapter 82.45, as the same now exists or may
hereafter be amended, and such tax shall comply with all applicable rules,
regulations, laws and court decisions regarding real estate excise taxes as
imposed by the state under RCW chapters 82.45 and 82.46, as the same now exists
or may hereafter be amended.
   B.   Tax Rate: The rate of tax imposed by this section pursuant to RCW
82.46.035, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, shall be one-
quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the selling price of all real property upon
which this tax is imposed.
   C.   Use Of Proceeds: All proceeds from the tax imposed by this section
shall be placed by the city clerk/treasurer, or authorized designee, in the
city's special capital project fund established under subsection D of this
section, and shall be used solely for financing capital projects, as specified
in a capital facilities plan element of a comprehensive plan approved by the
city council.
   D.   Special Capital Projects Fund: There is created a special fund to be
known as the special capital projects fund into which shall be deposited all
proceeds of the tax imposed by subsection A of this section. (Ord. 16, 6-12-
2001)
2-5-2: TAX PAYMENTS:
   A.   County To Collect Payment: The county treasurer shall collect the taxes
imposed by this chapter. The county treasurer shall place one percent (1%) of
the proceeds of the taxes imposed and collected by this chapter in the county
current expense fund to defray costs of collection. The remaining proceeds from
city taxes imposed by this chapter shall be distributed to the city on a
monthly basis.
   B.   Time Of Payment: The taxes imposed by this chapter shall become due and
payable immediately at the time of the sale, and if not so paid within thirty
(30) days thereafter, shall bear interest at the maximum rate permitted by law
from the time of sale until the date of payment. (Ord. 15, 6-12-2001; Ord. 16,
6-12-2001)
2-5-3: APPLICATION OF TAXES:
   A.   Obligation Of Seller: The taxes imposed by this chapter are the
obligation of the seller and may be enforced through the action of debt against
the seller or in the manner prescribed for the foreclosure of mortgages.
   B.   Lien On Real Property: The taxes imposed by this chapter and any
interest or penalties thereon is a specific lien upon each piece of real
property sold from the time of sale or until the tax is paid, which lien may be
enforced in the manner prescribed for the foreclosure of mortgages. Resort to
one course of enforcement is not an election not to pursue the other. (Ord. 15,
6-12-2001; Ord. 16, 6-12-2001)
2-5-4: DUTIES OF COUNTY TREASURER:
The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be paid to and collected by the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall cause a stamp evidencing satisfaction of
the lien to be affixed to the instrument of sale or conveyance prior to its
recording or to the real estate excise tax affidavit in the case of used mobile
home sales. A receipt issued by the county treasurer for the payment of the tax
imposed herein shall be evidence of the satisfaction of the lien imposed by
this chapter and may be recorded in the manner prescribed for recording
satisfactions of mortgages. No instrument of sale or conveyance evidencing a
sale subject to the tax may be accepted by the Spokane County auditor's office
for filing or recording until the tax is paid and the stamp affixed thereto. In
case the tax is not due on the transfer, the instrument shall not be accepted
until suitable notation of this fact is made on the instrument by the county
treasurer. (Ord. 15, 6-12-2001; Ord. 16, 6-12-2001)
2-5-5: REFUNDS:
If, upon written application by taxpayer to the county treasurer for a refund,
it appears that tax has been paid in excess of the amount actually due or upon
a sale or other transfer declared to be exempt, such excess amount or improper
payment shall be refunded by the county treasurer to the taxpayer; provided,
that no refund shall be made unless the state has first authorized the refund
of an excessive amount or an improper amount paid, unless such improper amount
was paid as a result of miscalculation. Any refund made shall be withheld from
the next monthly distribution to the city. (Ord. 15, 6-12-2001; Ord. 16, 6-12-
2001)
2-5-6: PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to pay taxes with intent to
violate the provisions of this chapter. Any person violating any provision of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof,
punished pursuant to state law or the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 15, 6-12-2001; Ord. 16, 6-12-2001)
CHAPTER 6
TOURISM PROMOTION AREA
SECTION:
2-6-1: Intent
2-6-2: Definitions
2-6-3: Tourism Promotion Area Established
2-6-4: Special Assessment
2-6-5: Inspections
2-6-6: Administration
2-6-7: Modification Or Disestablishment Of Tourism Promotion Area
2-6-8: Violation And Penalties
2-6-1: INTENT:
Through RCW 35.101.040(2), Spokane County along with the cities of Spokane and
Spokane Valley established the Spokane County tourism promotion area and
executed an interlocal agreement as required by state law 1 . This chapter is
modeled after the above identified county ordinance. It is the intent of the
city council that the Liberty Lake tourism promotion area join with and become
a part of the Spokane County tourism promotion area through assent to the
interlocal agreement executed by the city of Spokane, the city of Spokane
Valley and Spokane County. (Ord. 127, 7-6-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See Spokane County ordinance 04-0141.
2-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms are defined as follows:
AGREEMENT: The interlocal cooperation agreement between Spokane County, the
city of Spokane and the city of Spokane Valley for the establishment of a
Spokane County tourism promotion area by Spokane County as authorized by RCW
35.101.040(2).
ANNUAL BUDGET: The tourism promotion area budget for a fiscal year, as adopted
or amended by the city council, identifying all estimated revenue from special
assessments for the fiscal year and providing for all proposed uses of special
assessment revenue for the purpose of providing tourism promotion in the
ensuing fiscal year.
LIBERTY LAKE TOURISM PROMOTION AREA: The tourism promotion area created in
section
2-6-3 of this chapter, pursuant to the authority of RCW 35.101.
LODGING BUSINESS: A business located within the Liberty Lake tourism promotion
area that furnishes lodging taxable by the state under RCW 82.08 and that has
forty (40) or more lodging units.
OPERATOR: The operator of a lodging business, whether in the capacity of owner,
general manager, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or any
other similar capacity.
ROOM REVENUES: The gross per night charge (nights of stay) imposed for the
rental of a room or combination of rooms for lodging.
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT OR CHARGE: The levy imposed by the city on the operators of
a lodging business within the tourism promotion area and subsequently passed on
to the guests of the lodging business, under authority of RCW 35.101.050 for
the purpose of providing funding for tourism promotion in Liberty Lake.
SPOKANE METROPOLITAN AREA: Spokane County, including the entire areas within
the jurisdiction of the city of Spokane, the city of Spokane Valley, the city
of Liberty Lake and the unincorporated area of Spokane County.
TOURISM PROMOTION: Activities and expenditures designed to increase tourism and
convention business including, but not limited to, advertising, publicizing or
otherwise distributing information for the purpose of attracting and welcoming
tourists to the city of Liberty Lake and the Spokane metropolitan area.
TRANSIENT BASIS: The rental of a room or rooms for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes by the operator of a lodging business for a period of thirty
(30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting a portion of a day as a full
calendar day.
ZONE OR ZONES: The area within the tourism promotion area. (Ord. 127, 7-6-2004)
2-6-3: TOURISM PROMOTION AREA ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a tourism promotion area having boundaries
coterminous with the boundaries of the city of Liberty Lake, Washington. (Ord.
127, 7-6-2004)
2-6-4: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Assessment Rate: There is imposed a special assessment on the
furnishing of lodging by a lodging business located in the tourism promotion
area as follows:
 
For lodging businesses with room
revenues during the preceding    $2.00 per room per day
calendar year exceeding
$500,000.00
For lodging businesses with room
revenues during the preceding    0.50 per room per day
calendar year which do not
exceed $500,000.00
 
For purposes of Revised Code Of Washington 82.14.410, the charges imposed under
this subsection are not a tax on the sale of lodging. (Ord. 127, 7-6-2004; amd.
Ord. 127-A, 10-18-2011)
   B.   Use Of Special Assessment Revenues: The revenues from the special
assessments levied on the operators of lodging businesses situated within the
tourism promotion area shall be used for the following purposes only:
      1.   The funding of all activities and expenditures designed to increase
tourism promotion and convention business within the tourism promotion area as
specified in the tourism promotion area budget;
      2.   The marketing of convention business and trade shows that benefit
local tourism;
      3.   The marketing of Liberty Lake to the travel industry in order to
benefit local tourism and the lodging businesses situated within the tourism
promotion area; and
      4.   The marketing of Liberty Lake to recruit major sporting events in
order to promote local tourism and to benefit the lodging businesses within the
tourism promotion area.
   C.   Annual Budget: The city council recognizes that all of the revenues
from special assessments shall be allocated in accordance with the annual
budget for the tourism promotion area. Pursuant to authority of Revised Code Of
Washington 35.101.139(1), the city council shall adopt an annual budget, at a
regular meeting of the city council following an opportunity for public
comment.
   D.   Administration And Collection: The special assessment imposed under
this section shall be administered by the Washington state department of
revenue and shall be collected by lodging businesses from those guests who are
taxable by the state under Revised Code Of Washington 82.02. The provisions of
Revised Code Of Washington 82.32 apply to the special assessments imposed under
this section.
The special assessments collected by the Washington state department of revenue
shall be deposited by the department in the local tourism promotion account
created and maintained by the state treasurer. All receipts from the special
assessments imposed hereunder must be deposited into this account. Expenditures
from the account may only be used for tourism promotion. The state treasurer
shall distribute the money in the account on a monthly basis to Liberty Lake.
(Ord. 127, 7-6-2004)
2-6-5: INSPECTIONS:
All lodging businesses subject to the special assessment set forth in section
2-6-4 of this chapter and Liberty Lake consent to the inspection of such
records as are deemed necessary by the Washington state department of revenue
pursuant to applicable statutes, rules or regulations. (Ord. 127, 7-6-2004)
2-6-6: ADMINISTRATION:
The mayor is authorized to enter into contract(s) with the Washington state
department of revenue for the administration of the charge imposed pursuant to
this chapter. (Ord. 127, 7-6-2004)
2-6-7: MODIFICATION OR DISESTABLISHMENT OF TOURISM PROMOTION AREA:
   A.   By appropriate action, the city council may modify the provisions of
this chapter or provide for the disestablishment of the tourism promotion area,
after adopting a resolution of intention to such effect. Such resolution of
intention shall describe the change or changes proposed or indicate that it is
the intention to disestablish the tourism promotion area, and shall state the
time and place of a public hearing to be held by the city council.
   B.   If the operators of lodging businesses which pay for over forty percent
(40%) of the special assessments levied within the tourism promotion area file
a petition with the city clerk requesting the city council adopt a resolution
of intention to modify or disestablish the tourism promotion area, the city
council shall consider such resolution at a regular meeting and act upon it as
required by law. Signatures on such petition shall be those of a duly
authorized representative of the operators of lodging businesses within the
tourism promotion area.
   C.   In the event the resolution proposes disestablishment of the tourism
promotion area, the city council shall, by ordinance, disestablish the Spokane
County tourism promotion area; unless at such hearing protest against
disestablishment is made by the operators of lodging businesses paying over
fifty percent (50%) of the special assessments within the tourism promotion
area. (Ord. 127, 7-6-2004)
2-6-8: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Any person who fails or refuses to collect the charge as required under the
terms of this chapter with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter
or to gain some advantage or benefit, either directly or indirectly, and any
guest who refuses to pay any charge due under this chapter, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment
for a maximum term fixed by the court of not more than ninety (90) days, or by
a fine in the amount fixed by the court of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or by both such imprisonment and fine. Provided, however, the
penalty provided for under the terms of this section shall be in addition to
any other provisions provided for by law. (Ord. 127, 7-6-2004)
CHAPTER 7
DONATIONS FOR PARKS, FACILITIES, AND RECREATION PROGRAMS
SECTION:
2-7-1: Acceptance Of Donations Of Cash Or Tangible Items
2-7-2: Types Of Donations
2-7-3: Naming Rights
2-7-4: Sponsorships
2-7-5: Right To Deny
2-7-6: Special Privileges
2-7-7: Donation/Sponsorship Guide
2-7-8: Acknowledgments
2-7-9: Administration And Enforcement
2-7-1: ACCEPTANCE OF DONATIONS OF CASH OR TANGIBLE ITEMS:
   A.   The mayor or his/her designee will review the acceptability of any
donation and determine if the benefits to the city are appropriate and
acceptable under all city rules and regulations, and applicable federal and
state law.
   B.   Evaluation criteria may include: 1) consideration of any immediate or
initial expenditure required in order to accept the donation, 2) the potential
and extent of the city's obligation to maintain the donation, 3) the community
benefit derived from the gift or donation, and 4) ethical appropriateness of
donation.
   C.   The city shall maintain the final authority to accept or deny any gift
or donation. (Ord. 168, 2-19-2008)
2-7-2: TYPES OF DONATIONS:
Donations may be received in the form of cash or real or personal property.
Donations shall be designated as either a restricted or unrestricted donation.
"Restricted donations" are those donations that the donor specifically
designates for a particular purpose, use, or location. "Unrestricted donations"
shall mean those donations that are donated to the city for unspecified
purpose, use, or location.
   A.   Cash Gifts:
      1.   Cash gifts or donation of cash less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) may be reviewed and accepted by the mayor, or his/her designee.
      2.   Cash gifts or donations of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and
above may be reviewed and accepted by the city council.
      3.   Cash gifts or donations shall be designated as restricted or
unrestricted donations.
      4.   Unless specifically designated as a restricted donation, cash gifts
reviewed and accepted by the city shall impose no obligation to use the donated
funds for the specified purpose, use, or location.
   B.   Trees:
      1.   Tree donations add beauty to city parks and facilities. Trees may be
donated and installed at city parks and other locations in the city at the
recommendation of the mayor, or his/her designee.
      2.   The minimum size of tree donations must be at least two inch (2")
caliper or six feet (6') tall (evergreens) unless specifically waived in
writing by the mayor, or his/her designee.
      3.   Tree donations shall be limited to specific species established in
the city development code or otherwise approved by the mayor, or his/her
designee.
   C.   Benches: Benches may be donated and installed in different areas of the
city. Prior to the installation, the mayor, or his/her designee, shall approve
the type, style, design, and location of all donated benches on city property
or public right of way.
   D.   Park, Public Improvement, And Street Amenities: Public improvements or
other amenities such as drinking fountains, tables, and other equipment that
will improve public places in city parks, public buildings, streets, walkways,
and trails may be donated to the city.
      1.   Donation of public improvements or amenities valued at less than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) may be reviewed and accepted by the mayor, or
his/her designee.
      2.   Donation of public improvements or amenities valued at ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) or more shall be reviewed and accepted by the city
council. (Ord. 168, 2-19-2008)
2-7-3: NAMING RIGHTS:
Donors may receive certain naming rights on capital improvement projects for
which any donation matches or exceeds seventy five percent (75%) of the total
budgeted cost for the designated area benefiting from the donation. All such
donations shall be submitted to the city council for review and acceptance,
including the proposed name to be applied to the project(s). (Ord. 168, 2-19-
2008)
2-7-4: SPONSORSHIPS:
Special events and programs are recognized as fundraising activities. Where
donations or sponsorships of a special event or program will require special
recognition to provide recreational opportunities, corporate or organized
sponsors may be recognized by use of the company name and/or logos on certain
event banners and signage. Signs and literature at all special events and
programs shall be at the discretion of the director of the appropriate city
department. The size, scale and location of corporate logos and names should
not dominate the facilities or area. Company logos or names shall not be
displayed in such a manner that would, in any way, suggest the endorsement of
the city employees, or representatives of the city. (Ord. 168, 2-19-2008)
2-7-5: RIGHT TO DENY:
The city of Liberty Lake reserves the right to deny any donation if, upon
review, acceptance of the donation is determined to be not in the best interest
of the city. The city shall maintain the final authorization to accept or deny
any donation. (Ord. 168, 2-19-2008)
2-7-6: SPECIAL PRIVILEGES:
Making a donation or cosponsoring a special event or program shall not allow,
permit, enable, impose, oblige, or entitle a sponsor or donor to any special
privileges other than those stated in this chapter. Special privileges may
include city recognition, allowing certain displays at special events, or
receipt of plaques, unless otherwise agreed upon and approved by the mayor, or
his/her designee or the city council, where appropriate. (Ord. 168, 2-19-2008)
2-7-7: DONATION/SPONSORSHIP GUIDE:
The recreation department shall periodically make available a donation/
sponsorship guide containing prices and ideas for public sponsorships and/or
donations. (Ord. 168, 2-19-2008)
2-7-8: ACKNOWLEDGMENTS:
   A.   Letter to donor accepting donation;
   B.   Where applicable, recognition of donations may be made at city council
meetings; and
   C.   Plaques may be reserved for donations subject to the following criteria
and approval of the city:
      1.   Donors providing donations valued at one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) to less than three thousand nine hundred ninety nine dollars
($3,999.00) may elect to provide a dedicatory plaque not exceeding two inches
by six inches (2" x 6") with a name designated by the donor preceded by one of
the following: "Donated by", "Donated for", or "In recognition of";
      2.   Donors providing donations valued at four thousand dollars
($4,000.00) or greater may elect to provide a dedicatory plaque not exceeding
five inches by seven inches (5" x 7") with name, date and dedication wording.
All plaque content must be approved by the mayor, or his/her designee;
      3.   All plaque expenses shall be borne by the donor. The city shall
assume ownership and maintenance of the donated item and plaque, but the city
shall not assume plaque replacement costs, including any damage due to
vandalism or theft. All plaques shall remain as a donated item during its
useful life. The city reserves the right to remove and/or relocate the donated
item at all times;
      4.   All plaque information will be entered on the donation/sponsorship
guide order form and ordered by the city. The donor shall be required to
compensate the city for all plaque related expenses prior to being ordered.
(Ord. 168, 2-19-2008)
2-7-9: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administration: The mayor, or his/her designee, shall be responsible
for the administration of this chapter. Donations shall be reviewed prior to
acceptance to ensure such donations conform to the standards established in
this chapter.
   B.   Enforcement: Donations that do not conform to the standards contained
in this chapter shall be subject to denial until donation proposal is brought
into conformance therewith. (Ord. 168, 2-19-2008)
CHAPTER 8
UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
2-8-1: Tax; Effective Date
2-8-2: Use And Accountability Of Tax Proceeds
2-8-3: Definitions
2-8-4: Occupations Subject To Tax; Amount
2-8-5: Tax Year
2-8-6: Exceptions And Deductions
2-8-7: Monthly Installments
2-8-8: Taxpayer's Records
2-8-9: Failure To Make Returns Or To Pay The Tax In Full
2-8-10: Penalty For Delinquent Payment
2-8-11: Overpayment Of Tax
2-8-12: Noncompliance; Penalty
2-8-13: Appeal
2-8-14: City Treasurer To Make Rules
2-8-15: Tax Relief
2-8-1: TAX; EFFECTIVE DATE:
The tax provided for in this chapter shall be known as the "utility tax", and
is levied upon the privilege of conducting an electric energy, natural or
manufactured gas, telephone, solid waste collection, or cable television
business within the city of Liberty Lake effective December 26, 2010. (Ord.
188, 10-19-2010)
2-8-2: USE AND ACCOUNTABILITY OF TAX PROCEEDS:
All revenues collected pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited into the
general fund, and shall be used for the funding of city services or capital
requirements as the city council shall direct through its annual budget
process. (Ord. 188, 10-19-2010)
2-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context or subject matter clearly requires
otherwise, the words or phrases defined in this section shall have the
indicated meanings.
CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES: The transmission of video programming and associated
nonvideo signals to subscribers together with subscriber interaction, if any,
which is provided in connection with video programming.
CELLULAR TELEPHONE SERVICE: Any two-way voice and data telephone or similar
communications system based in whole or in substantial part on wireless radio
communications, including cellular mobile service, and which is not subject to
regulation by the Washington state utilities and transportation commission.
Cellular mobile service includes other wireless radio communications services
including specialized mobile radio, personal communications services, and any
other evolving wireless radio communications technology that accomplishes a
purpose substantially similar to cellular mobile service. Cellular telephone
service is included within the definition of "telephone business" for the
purposes of this chapter.
CITY TREASURER: The treasurer of the city of Liberty Lake, Washington.
COMPETITIVE TELEPHONE SERVICE: The providing by any person of
telecommunications equipment or apparatus, directory advertising and lease of
telephone street directories, or service related to that equipment or apparatus
such as repair or maintenance service, if the equipment or apparatus is of a
type which may be provided by persons not subject to regulation as telephone
companies under title 80 Revised Code Of Washington, and for which a separate
charge is made. Transmission of communication through cellular telephones is
classified as "telephone business" rather than "competitive telephone service".
GROSS INCOME: The value proceeding or accruing from the performance of the
particular business involved, including gross proceeds of sales, compensation
for the rendition of services, and receipts (including all sums earned or
charged, whether received or not) by reason of investment in the business
engaged in (excluding rentals, receipts or proceeds from the use or sale of
real property or any interest therein, and proceeds from the sale of notes,
bonds, mortgages or other evidences of indebtedness, or stocks and the like),
all without any deduction on account of the cost of property sold, the cost of
materials used, labor costs, taxes, interest or discount paid, delivery costs
or any expenses whatsoever, and without any deduction on account of losses.
PAGER SERVICE: Service provided by means of an electronic device which has the
ability to send or receive voice or digital messages transmitted through the
local telephone network, via satellite or any other form of voice or data
transmission. "Pager service" is included within the definition of "telephone
business" for the purposes of this chapter.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, association, or entity of any type
engaged in a business subject to taxation under this chapter.
SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid and semisolid wastes
including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, ashes, industrial wastes,
swill, sewage sludge, demolition, and construction waste, abandoned vehicles,
or parts thereof and recyclable materials.
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION BUSINESS: Every person who receives solid waste or
recyclable materials for transfer storage or disposal including, but not
limited to, all collection services public or private solid waste disposal
sites transfer stations and similar operations.
TELEPHONE BUSINESS: The business of providing access to a local telephone
network, local telephone network switching service, toll service, or coin
telephone services, or providing telephonic, video, data, pager or similar
communication or transmission for hire, via a local telephone network, toll
line or channel, cable, microwave, or similar communication or transmission
system. The term includes cooperative or farmer line telephone companies or
associations operating an exchange. "Telephone business" does not include the
providing of competitive telephone service or cable television service, or
other providing of broadcast services by radio or television stations. (Ord.
188, 10-19-2010)
2-8-4: OCCUPATIONS SUBJECT TO TAX; AMOUNT:
There is levied upon, and shall be collected from a person because of certain
business activities engaged in or carried on in the city of Liberty Lake, taxes
in the amount to be determined by the application of rates given against gross
income as follows:
   A.   Upon a person engaged in or carrying on the business of selling,
furnishing, or transmitting electric energy, a tax equal to three percent (3%)
of the total gross income from such business in the city during the period for
which the tax is due;
   B.   Upon a person engaged in or carrying on the business of selling,
furnishing, or transmitting gas, whether natural or manufactured, a tax equal
to three percent (3%) of the total gross income from such business in the city
during the period for which the tax is due;
   C.   Upon a person engaged in or carrying on any solid waste collection
business, a tax equal to three percent (3%) of the total gross income from such
business in the city during the period for which the tax is due;
   D.   Upon a person engaged in or carrying on any telephone business a tax
equal to three percent (3%) of the total gross income, including income from
intrastate long distance toll service, from such business in the city during
the period for which the tax is due; and
   E.   Upon a person engaged in or carrying on the business of selling,
furnishing or transmitting cable television service, a tax equal to three
percent (3%) of the total gross income from such business in the city during
the period for which the tax is due. (Ord. 188, 10-19-2010; amd. Ord. 188-A,
12-13-2011, eff. 1-1-2012)
2-8-5: TAX YEAR:
The tax year for purposes of this utility tax shall commence December 26, 2010,
and end December 31, 2010, and thereafter shall commence every year on January
1, and end on December 31 each year. (Ord. 188, 10-19-2010)
2-8-6: EXCEPTIONS AND DEDUCTIONS:
There is excepted and deducted from the total gross income upon which the tax
is computed:
   A.   That part of the total gross income derived from business which the
city is prohibited from taxing under the constitution or laws of the United
States and the constitution or laws of the state of Washington.
   B.   Income derived from that portion of network telephone service, as
defined in Revised Code Of Washington 82.04.065, which represents charges to
another telecommunications company, as defined in Revised Code Of Washington
80.04.010 - for connecting fees, switching charges, or carrier access charges
relating to intrastate toll telephone services; or for access to, or charges
for, interstate services; or charges for network telephone service that is
purchased for the purpose of resale.
   C.   Adjustments made to a billing or customer account in order to reverse a
billing or charge that was not properly a debt of the customer.
   D.   Cash discounts allowed and actually granted to customers of the
taxpayer during the tax year.
   E.   Uncollectible debts written off the taxpayer's books during the tax
year. If subsequently collected, the income shall be reported for the period in
which collected. (Ord. 188, 10-19-2010)
2-8-7: MONTHLY INSTALLMENTS:
The tax imposed by section
2-8-4 of this chapter shall be due and payable in monthly installments, and
remittance therefor shall be made on or before the last day of the month
following the end of the monthly period in which the tax is accrued. Annual
returns for smaller entities may be allowed upon written approval from the city
treasurer. On or before said due date, the taxpayer shall file with the city
treasurer a written return upon such form and setting forth such information as
the city treasurer shall reasonably require relating to the accurate
computation and collection of this tax, together with the payment of the
amount. (Ord. 188, 10-19-2010)
2-8-8: TAXPAYER'S RECORDS:
Each taxpayer shall keep records reflecting the amount of the taxpayer's gross
income on sales and services within the city, and such records shall be open at
all reasonable times for the inspection of the city treasurer to verify
information provided on any utility tax return, or to determine whether such
return is required to be filed. (Ord. 188, 10-19-2010)
2-8-9: FAILURE TO MAKE RETURNS OR TO PAY THE TAX IN FULL:
If a taxpayer fails, neglects, or refuses to make his or her return as and when
required by this chapter, the city treasurer is authorized to determine the
amount of the tax payable under provisions of section
2-8-4 of this chapter, and to notify such taxpayer of the amount so determined.
The amount so fixed shall thereupon be the tax and be immediately due and
payable, together with penalty and interest. Delinquent taxes, including any
penalties, are subject to an interest charge of twelve percent (12%) per year
on the unpaid balance from the date any such taxes became due as provided in
section
2-8-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 188, 10-19-2010)
2-8-10: PENALTY FOR DELINQUENT PAYMENT:
If a person subject to this tax fails to pay any tax required by this chapter
within fifteen (15) days after the due date thereof, there shall be added to
such tax a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of such tax. Any tax due
under this chapter that is unpaid and all penalties thereon shall constitute a
debt to the city and may be collected by court proceedings, which remedy shall
be in addition to all other remedies. (Ord. 188, 10-19-2010)
2-8-11: OVERPAYMENT OF TAX:
Money paid to the city through error, or otherwise not in payment of the tax
imposed by this chapter, or in excess of such tax, shall, upon discovery, be
credited against any tax due or to become due from such taxpayer hereunder,
provided however, that overpayments extending beyond one year prior to
notification of the city shall not be refunded. If such taxpayer has ceased
doing business in the city, any such overpayment shall be refunded to the
taxpayer. (Ord. 188, 10-19-2010)
2-8-12: NONCOMPLIANCE; PENALTY:
   A.   No person subject to this chapter shall fail or refuse to file tax
returns or to pay tax when due, nor shall any person make a false statement or
representation in, or in connection with, any such tax return, or otherwise
violate or refuse to comply with this chapter or with any rule promulgated
pursuant to section
2-8-14 of this chapter.
   B.   In addition to the interest and delinquent filing penalties set forth
above, a wilful violation of or failure to comply with this chapter is a civil
infraction, subject to a fine of up to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for
each day that a violation continues. (Ord. 188, 10-19-2010)
2-8-13: APPEAL:
A taxpayer aggrieved by the amount of the tax, penalties, interest, or civil
infraction fine determined to be due by the city treasurer, under the
provisions of this chapter, may appeal such determination to the city of
Liberty Lake's mayor or his or her designee. (Ord. 188, 10-19-2010)
2-8-14: CITY TREASURER TO MAKE RULES:
The city treasurer shall have the power to adopt and enforce rules and
regulations not inconsistent with this chapter or with the law for purposes of
carrying out the provisions hereof. (Ord. 188, 10-19-2010)
2-8-15: TAX RELIEF:
   A.   Utility Tax Annual Rebate Program Established: A utility tax annual
rebate program is established for senior and low income or disabled and low
income residents in accordance with the eligibility criteria and guidelines
described in this section. The first period covered under this program is
January 1, 2011 - December 31, 2011, and then every calendar year thereafter.
   B.   Utility Tax Annual Rebate For Electricity, Gas, Garbage, Solid Waste,
Cable, Telephone Services: For all the above services, which are more
specifically set forth in this chapter, eligible Liberty Lake residents may
apply annually to receive a utility tax rebate.
To qualify for a utility tax annual rebate from electricity, gas, garbage,
solid waste, cable and telephone services, Liberty Lake residents must:
      1.   Be a household residing within the legal boundaries of the city of
Liberty Lake; and
      2.   Be low income and age sixty two (62) or older at the time an
application is made to the city of Liberty Lake for an annual rebate, or
totally and permanently disabled and low income, residing in a separately
metered dwelling and who is paying directly for such separately billed service
either as owner, purchaser or renter and whose individual area median income is
at or below eighty percent (80%) of the median income for the Spokane County
area as defined by HUD (Department of Housing and Urban Development).
   C.   Rules And Procedures; Compliance: The city treasurer shall adopt rules
and procedures for the filing of reimbursement claims and for the
administration of the utility tax annual rebate program as provided for by this
section. (Ord. 195, 8-16-2011; amd. Ord. 195-A, 4-17-2012)
CHAPTER 9
AQUIFER PROTECTION FUND
SECTION:
2-9-1: Fund
2-9-2: Revenue
2-9-3: Expenditures
2-9-4: Administration
2-9-1: FUND:
There is hereby established in the city treasury a special fund designated and
known as the "aquifer protection fund" (fund 411). (Ord. 208, 10-1-2013)
2-9-2: REVENUE:
All revenue collected, pursuant to the city's interlocal agreement with Spokane
County, regarding uses and allocations of aquifer protection area revenues from
annual property statements within the city of Liberty Lake shall be deposited
in the aquifer protection fund. (Ord. 208, 10-1-2013)
2-9-3: EXPENDITURES:
The aquifer protection fund shall be used and expended only for provisions
identified under Revised Code Of Washington 36.36.040, and as amended. (Ord.
208, 10-1-2013)
2-9-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The city treasurer is charged with the administration of said fund. (Ord. 208,
10-1-2013)
TITLE 3
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-1-1: Establishment And Purpose
3-1-2: Membership
3-1-3: Meetings And Rules
3-1-4: Staff Support
3-1-5: Duties And Responsibilities
3-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Commission Established: There is hereby created the city of Liberty
Lake planning commission.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the planning commission is to study and make
recommendations to the mayor and city council for Liberty Lake's future growth
through continued review of the city's comprehensive land use plan, zoning code
(or development regulations), shoreline management, environmental protection,
transportation system, capital improvements and other matters as directed by
the city council.
   C.   References: The provisions of this chapter supersede and replace any
reference to planning commission as defined in the Spokane County code which
was adopted by reference. The term planning commission as referenced in those
ordinances shall be construed and interpreted to mean the city of Liberty Lake
planning commission. (Ord. 75, 12-11-2001)
3-1-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Qualifications: The membership of the planning commission shall consist
of individuals who have an interest in planning, land use, transportation,
capital infrastructure and building and landscape design as evidenced by
training, experience or interest in the city.
   B.   Appointments: Members of the planning commission shall be nominated by
the mayor and confirmed by a majority vote of at least four (4) members of the
city council. Planning commissioners shall be selected without respect to
political affiliations and shall serve without compensation.
   C.   Number Of Members; Terms:
      1.   Regular Members: The planning commission shall consist of seven (7)
members. At least five (5) members shall reside within the city. The terms for
the initial commissioners shall be two (2) 1-year terms, two (2) 2-year terms
and three (3) 3-year terms. The initial members and their terms shall be
decided by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. Subsequent terms shall
be for a three (3) year period. Terms shall expire on December 31. (Ord. 75,
12-11-2001)
      2.   Adjunct Members: Up to two (2) adjunct members may be brought in to
serve as additions to the required seven (7) members. The adjunct members must
reside within the city and shall be appointed in the same manner as set above.
Adjunct members may participate in meetings, workshops, hearings, and work
groups but they are not permitted to participate in voting, unless a regular
member is absent. In the absence of a regular member, the adjunct member(s)
will fill in for the regular member by order of appointment. If there are two
(2) absent regular members, both adjunct members may participate as if a
regular member for such identified meetings, including voting and counting
toward the quorum. Adjunct members may become full time voting members if a
vacancy occurs on the planning commission and they are appointed to the
position. (Ord. 175-B, 2-16-2016)
   D.   Removal Of Members: Members of the commission may be removed by the
mayor, with the concurrence of the city council, for neglect of duty, conflict
of interest, malfeasance in office or other just cause, or for unexcused
absence from three (3) consecutive regular meetings. Failure to qualify as to
residency shall constitute a forfeiture of office. The decision of the city
council regarding membership on the planning commission shall be final and
without appeal.
   E.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring other than through the expiration of
terms shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as for
appointments.
   F.   Conflicts Of Interest: Members of the planning commission shall fully
comply with code of ethics for municipal officers 1 , appearance of fairness 2
, and such other rules and regulations as may be adopted from time to time by
the city council regulating the conduct of any person holding appointive office
within the city. No elected official or city employee may be a member of the
planning commission. (Ord. 75, 12-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. RCW 42.23.
2 2. RCW 42.36.
3-1-3: MEETINGS AND RULES:
   A.   The planning commission shall every second year organize and elect from
its members a chair, who shall preside at all meetings of the commission and
perform such other functions as determined by rule. A vice chair shall be
elected to preside in the absence of the chair. In the absence of both the
chair and vice chair, the longest serving and/or most experienced commissioner
shall act as the chair for the meeting. A majority of the commission members
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and a majority vote
of those present shall be necessary to carry any proposition. (Ord. 175-B, 2-
16-2016)
   B.   The commission shall determine a regular meeting schedule (time, place
and frequency), as necessary, but no less frequent than once every month. All
meetings shall be open to the public.
   C.   The commission shall adopt such rules and regulations as are necessary
for the conduct of business and shall keep a taped record of its proceedings.
(Ord. 75, 12-11-2001)
3-1-4: STAFF SUPPORT:
Administrative staff support to the planning commission shall be provided by
the city planning and community development director or designee. In addition,
the commission, through its chair, may request formal opinions or memorandums
from the city attorney or planning and community development director on any
pending matter. (Ord. 75, 12-11-2001)
3-1-5: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The planning commission, as an advisory body to the city council, shall perform
and have the following duties and responsibilities:
   A.   Assist in the preparation of a comprehensive plan and development
regulations in compliance with Revised Code Of Washington 36.70A and 35A.63
including the establishment of procedures for early and continuous public
participation in the development and amendment of the comprehensive plan and
the development regulations;
   B.   Review plans and regulations related to land use management, shoreline
management, environmental policy, transportation systems and capital
infrastructure planning and development;
   C.   Upon request from the mayor or city council, review potential
annexations to the city;
   D.   Where design review is required by land use ordinances of the city,
perform such design review unless that review is delegated to some other
appointed body or city staff;
   E.   Identify issues and recommend priorities for geographic subareas
including park and open space areas in the city;
   F.   Meet and confer with the hearing examiner to review the administration
of land use policies and ordinances to enhance the planning and permitting
process;
   G.   Make monthly written and oral reports to the city council setting forth
the progress in completing work;
   H.   Hold public hearings in the exercise of duties and responsibilities;
   I.   Perform such other duties and powers as may be conferred by ordinance,
resolution or motion of the city council.
Unless otherwise assumed by the city council, the planning commission shall
hold all public hearings required to be held in the course of adoption or
amendment to the comprehensive plan, the zoning code, adoption or amendment of
the zoning map, or adoption or amendment of regulations for the subdivision of
land, shoreline management, environmental regulations and other land use
ordinances of the city. (Ord. 75, 12-11-2001)
CHAPTER 2
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-2-1: Police Civil Service System Adopted
3-2-2: Civil Service Commission Members
3-2-3: Powers And Duties
3-2-4: Staff Support
3-2-1: POLICE CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM ADOPTED:
There is established for the city police department a civil service system to
be operated and governed in accordance with RCW chapter 41.12. Employees
subject to civil service shall include all full time employees of the police
department including the chief of police. (Ord. 76, 12-11-2001)
3-2-2: CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION MEMBERS:
   A.   Creation: There is created a civil service commission which shall be
composed of three (3) persons. No person shall be appointed to the commission
who is not a citizen of the United States, a resident of the city for at least
three (3) years preceding appointment and an elector of Spokane County. At the
time of appointment, not more than two (2) commissioners shall be adherents of
the same political party.
   B.   Appointment; Replacement; Quorum: The commissioners shall be appointed
by the mayor. The term for each commissioner shall be six (6) years. The
initial members shall be appointed as follows: one for two (2) years; one for
four (4) years and one for six (6) years. In the event a commissioner shall
resign, become disqualified or removed for cause, the newly appointed member
shall complete the unexpired term. Two (2) members shall constitute a quorum.
   C.   Finances: Members shall serve without compensation. The city council
shall budget for the reasonable expenses of the commission.
   D.   Organization: The commission shall organize by electing a chair and
establishing a regular monthly meeting time, date and place. Notice of the
meetings shall be posted and delivered to the city clerk. The commission shall
conduct its business pursuant to the open public meetings act 1 . A secretary
and chief examiner shall be appointed to keep all records, prepare reports and
perform such other duties as required. The commission may make rules and
regulations to aid the performance of its duties under this chapter and state
law. (Ord. 76, 12-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. RCW ch. 42.30.
3-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The civil service commission shall perform the duties and exercise all the
authority provided in RCW chapter 41.12. (Ord. 76, 12-11-2001)
3-2-4: STAFF SUPPORT:
Administrative staff support to the civil service commission shall be provided
by the city administrator, city clerk or designee. In addition, the commission,
through its chair, may request formal opinions or memorandums from the city
attorney on any pending matter. (Ord. 76, 12-11-2001)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC LIBRARY BOARD 1
(Rep. by Ord. 119-A, 6-5-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-5-4 of this code.
CHAPTER 4
CITY TREE BOARD
SECTION:
3-4-1: Board Created
3-4-2: Membership
3-4-3: Duties And Responsibilities
3-4-4: Action By City Council
3-4-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created and established a city tree board for the city. (Ord.
124, 12-16-2003)
3-4-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The city tree board shall consist of five (5) members, citizens and residents
of the city, who shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the city
council.
   A.   Term Of Office: The term of the five (5) persons to be appointed by the
mayor shall be three (3) years, except that the term of two (2) of the members
appointed to the first board shall be for one year, and the term of two (2)
members of the first board shall be for two (2) years. In the event that a
vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, the successor shall be
appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   B.   Compensation: Members of the board shall serve without compensation.
   C.   Operation: The board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules
and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. (Ord. 124,
12-16-2003)
3-4-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
It shall be the responsibility of the board to study, investigate, develop and
annually update and administer a written plan for the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of street trees. Such
plan will be presented annually to the city council and, upon their acceptance
and approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan for
the city. When requested by the city council, the board shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or
questions coming within the scope of its work. (Ord. 124, 12-16-2003)
3-4-4: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
The city council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions
of the city tree board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the
city tree board to the city council, who may hear the matter and make a final
decision. An appeal may be filed with the city clerk within ten (10) days from
receipt of notice. (Ord. 124, 12-16-2003)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS AND ARTS COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-5-1: Establishment And Purpose
3-5-2: Membership
3-5-3: Meetings - Rules
3-5-4: Staff Support
3-5-5: Duties And Responsibilities
3-5-1: ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The City of Liberty Lake Parks and Arts Commission is hereby
established and shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Mayor and City
Council. The purpose of the Parks and Arts Commission shall be to act as an
advisory board for Tree City USA and Bicycle Communities Program and provide
guidance and direction in meeting the parks and recreational and arts needs of
the City, including but not limited to the following:
      1.   To study and submit recommendations to the Mayor and City Council on
behalf of the Tree City USA and Bicycle Communities Programs park use,
including rules and regulations, reservation policy, fees and costs, capital
improvements, public art, and other matters as directed by the Mayor and City
Council;
      2.   To explore ways and methods of obtaining private, local, State and
Federal funds for special projects in the City's parks, trails and open space;
and
      3.   To advocate for healthy and active life styles and promote the
quality of life that is provided through the City's parks, trails and open
spaces, including for the Tree City USA and Bicycle Communities Programs. (Ord.
245A, 4-3-2018)
3-5-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Qualifications: Members of the Parks and Arts Commission must be
residents of the City of Liberty Lake or own/work at a business within the City
limits at all times while a member of the Parks and Arts Commission.
   B.   Appointment: Members of the Parks and Arts Commission shall be
nominated by the Mayor and confirmed by a majority vote of at least four (4)
members of the City Council. Parks and Arts Commissioners shall be selected
without respect to political affiliations and shall serve without compensation.
      1.   Number Of Members: The Parks and Arts Commission shall consist of
seven (7) members with at least one Commissioner being a senior citizen (55+).
With the goal to have balanced representation of the City's three (3) major
parks (Pavillion, Rocky Hill and Orchard Park), the Mayor will recommend
appointments for Commissioners as follows:
 
Orchard Park    2 Commissioners (position 1 and 2)
Pavillion Park  2 Commissioners (position 3 and 4)
Rocky Hill Park 2 Commissioners (position 5 and 6)
At large        1 Commissioner (position 7)
 
      2.   Terms: The terms for the initial Commissioners in positions 1, 3, 5,
and 7 shall be two (2) year terms and the terms for the initial Commissioners
in positions 2, 4, and 6 shall be three (3) year terms; provided that an
initial Commissioner's term may be less than two (2) or three (3) years
depending on appointment to allow for expiring terms at the end of a calendar
year. The initial members and their terms shall be decided by the Mayor and
confirmed by the City Council. All subsequent terms shall be for a three (3)
year period with terms expiring on December 31st.
      3.   Student Representative: In addition to the appointed position, the
Parks and Arts Commission shall seek to recruit at least one student
representative to participate on the commission. The student representative
shall be a high school student who resides in the City of Liberty Lake. The
term of this position will be a minimum of one year.
   C.   Resignations: If a Commissioner is unable to complete their term of
service, a letter of resignation shall be sent to the Mayor indicating the
effective date of the resignation.
   D.   Removal: Members of the Parks and Arts Commission may be removed by the
Mayor, with the concurrence of the City Council, for neglect of duty, conflict
of interest, malfeasance in office, or other just cause, or for unexcused
absence from three (3) consecutive regular meetings. Failure to qualify as to
residency shall constitute a forfeiture of office. The decision of the City
Council regarding membership on the Parks and Arts Commission shall be final
and without appeal.
   E.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring other than through the expiration of
terms shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as for
appointments.
   F.   Conflicts Of Interest: Members of the Parks and Arts Commission shall
fully comply with Revised Code of Washington 42.23, Code of Ethics for
Municipal Officers, Revised Code of Washington 42.36, Appearance of Fairness,
and such other rules and regulations as may be adopted from time to time by the
City Council regulating the conduct of any person holding appointive office
within the City. No elected official or City employee may be a member of the
Parks and Arts Commission. (Ord. 245A, 4-3-2018)
3-5-3: MEETINGS - RULES:
   A.   Members of the Parks and Arts Commission shall meet and organize by
electing from the members of the commission a Chair and a Vice-Chair. It shall
be the duty of the Chair to preside at all meetings. The Vice-Chair shall
perform this duty in the absence of the Chair. If neither the Chair nor the
Vice-Chair is present, a member chosen by agreement of the attending members
shall act as Chair.
   B.   The term of office for the Chair and Vice Chair shall be two (2) years
and elections shall occur in even numbered years (e.g., 2018, 2020, etc.).
   C.   A majority of the commission members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, and a majority vote of those present shall be
necessary to carry any proposition.
   D.   The Parks and Arts Commission shall determine a regular meeting
schedule (time, place and frequency), as necessary, but no less frequent than
once per quarter. Parks and Arts Commission meetings shall be conducted in an
open public session and noticed in accordance with the Open Public Meetings Act
(OPMA).
   E.   The commission shall adopt such rules and regulations as are necessary
for the conduct of business and shall keep a taped record of its proceedings.
(Ord. 245A, 4-3-2018)
3-5-4: STAFF SUPPORT:
Administrative staff support to the Parks and Arts Commission shall be provided
by the City Administrator, or his (her) designee. In addition, the Parks and
Arts Commission, through its Chair may request formal opinions or memorandums
from the City Attorney, MRSC, or other City staff on any pending matters. (Ord.
245A, 4-3-2018)
3-5-5: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   In addition to those matters set forth in section
3-5-1 of this chapter, the Parks and Arts Commission, as an advisory body to
the City Council, shall perform and have the following duties and
responsibilities:
      1.   The Parks and Arts Commission shall keep the City of Liberty Lake
apprised of its activities and recommendations by submitting an annual written
report each year summarizing the activities for the previous year and future
work plans for the coming year. This report should be submitted to the Mayor no
later than the end of September each year so funding requests can be evaluated
during the City's budget cycle;
      2.   Review park reservation policy(ies), fees and City community event
partnerships. Evaluate and recommend public art policy and projects. Provide
feedback to City staff and City Council on park, open space, trails and public
art priorities;
      3.   Provide support and direction to City staff on behalf of the Tree
City USA and Bicycle Community Advisory Boards; and
      4.   Perform such other duties and powers as may be conferred by
ordinance, resolution or motion of the City Council. (Ord. 245A, 4-3-2018)
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF YOUTH COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Establishment
3-6-2: Purpose And Goals
3-6-3: Term Of Office; Filling Vacancies
3-6-4: Officers; Quorum; Meetings
3-6-5: General Powers
3-6-6: General Duties
3-6-7: City Council Liaison And Staff Support
3-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
A board of Liberty Lake youth commissioners is created and established. The
board of commissioners shall consist of nine (9) members, who shall be
appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. The board members, at
the time of appointment, shall be enrolled in grades eight (8) through twelve
(12), and reside within the boundaries of Central Valley school district during
the member's term. A minimum of six (6) of the board's members shall reside
within the city of Liberty Lake. (Ord. 153, 9-5-2006, eff. 9-27-2006)
3-6-2: PURPOSE AND GOALS:
   A.   The board of commissioners shall serve as an advisory body to the city
council, other city boards, commissions and city staff on issues including
youth programs, recreational activities and other issues of importance to
youth.
   B.   The board of commissioners shall promote leadership skills and the
communication of the ideas of young persons. The commission's goals shall be:
      1.   Find solutions to youth problems and report these to the city
council;
      2.   Provide community youth with an outlet for expressing interests and
opinions;
      3.   Make the public aware of the youth commission and its programs;
      4.   Suggest ways to improve the quality of life for young persons in the
city; and
      5.   Develop programs, initiatives and resources for youth. (Ord. 153, 9-
5-2006, eff. 9-27-2006)
3-6-3: TERM OF OFFICE; FILLING VACANCIES:
   A.   Each member shall serve a term of two (2) years, except for persons
appointed during their senior year at Central Valley school district, in which
instance such person shall serve a term of one year.
   B.   An appointee shall continue in office until the successor to the
position is duly appointed. All vacancies on the board shall be filled in the
same manner as the original appointment, to serve for the unexpired term.
   C.   Any member of the board may, for cause, be removed from office by the
mayor with consent of the city council.
   D.   An unexcused absence of any member from three (3) consecutive regular
meetings of the board may result in cause for the board member's removal, upon
request by the mayor and confirmation by the city council.
   E.   Term of office shall run from September 1 to August 31 of each
consecutive calendar year. (Ord. 153, 9-5-2006, eff. 9-27-2006)
3-6-4: OFFICERS; QUORUM; MEETINGS:
   A.   Officers of the board shall consist of a chairman, vice chairman,
secretary and such other officers as may be necessary. Officers shall be
elected in the first scheduled meeting in October of each year. A recording
secretary shall be established by the board either from within or without its
own membership. It shall be the duty of the chairman to preside at all meetings
of the board and of the secretary to keep minutes of proceedings of the board.
   B.   A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum, with five (5) voting
members required for the transaction of business. A majority vote shall
constitute fifty percent (50%), plus one member in order to carry out any
proposition of the board.
   C.   Meetings of the board shall be held at a time and place each month as
designated by the youth commission.
   D.   Special meetings of the board may be called by the chairman or upon
notice signed by four (4) members of the board.
   E.   The board may adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of its
business.
   F.   All meetings shall be open to the public.
   G.   The youth commission is authorized to hold joint meetings with one or
more city boards or agencies. (Ord. 153, 9-5-2006, eff. 9-27-2006)
3-6-5: GENERAL POWERS:
The board shall have all of the powers and perform all the duties necessary and
incidental to its operation. The board shall, under the supervision of the
city, have the power to conduct recreation or cultural activities that occupy
the leisure time of youth in a constructive manner. The principal functions of
the youth commission shall be to: a) prepare a plan that anticipates and
reflects the desires of the youth of the city; b) provide reports to the mayor
and city council concerning recreation, entertainment, or other activities
involving youth; and c) make such other recommendations as are reasonable and
necessary to serve the youth interests in the community. (Ord. 153, 9-5-2006,
eff. 9-27-2006)
3-6-6: GENERAL DUTIES:
Officers of the board shall be a chairman, vice chairman, and secretary,
selected by a majority vote of the board.
   A.   The chairman may appoint any special committees.
   B.   The chairman may call special meetings, with notice provided.
   C.   The chairman shall prepare the agenda for each meeting from items
submitted by the board members, staff, and the public.
   D.   The chairman shall provide semiannual updates on commission work to the
city council, the mayor, and other groups as desired.
   E.   The vice chairman shall, when the chair is absent, perform the duties
of the chair.
   F.   When necessary, the vice chairman shall assume any duties assigned by
the chairman.
   G.   The vice chairman shall succeed to the office of the chairman in the
event the chairman resigns.
   H.   The secretary shall record and prepare minutes of all regular and
special meetings of the board.
   I.   The secretary shall keep a record of attendance of commission members
at meetings.
   J.   The secretary shall maintain all records of the commission.
   K.   The secretary shall file the original copy of the minutes, following
approval by the board and signature of the chairman with the city clerk-
treasurer. (Ord. 153, 9-5-2006, eff. 9-27-2006)
3-6-7: CITY COUNCIL LIAISON AND STAFF SUPPORT:
The city council shall appoint a city council member to serve as an ex officio,
nonvoting member of the youth commission. Administrative staff support to the
youth commission shall be provided by the city finance director or designee. In
addition, the commission, through its chair after consultation with the finance
director, may request formal opinions or memorandums from the city attorney on
any pending matter. (Ord. 153, 9-5-2006, eff. 9-27-2006)
CHAPTER 7
SALARY COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-7-1: Commission Created - Purpose
3-7-2: Membership - Appointment
3-7-3: Term Of Appointment
3-7-4: Removal
3-7-5: Duties
3-7-6: Commission Meetings - Rules Of Procedure
3-7-7: Referendum
3-7-1: COMMISSION CREATED - PURPOSE:
An independent salary commission is hereby created for the purpose of setting
the salaries of the Mayor and City Council Members of the City of Liberty Lake.
The official name of the Commission shall be the Liberty Lake Salary
Commission. (Ord. 176-B, 5-18-2021)
3-7-2: MEMBERSHIP - APPOINTMENT:
   A.   The Liberty Lake Salary Commission shall be composed of three (3)
members appointed by the Mayor with confirmation by the City Council. Salary
Commissioners must be residents of the City of Liberty Lake. No member of the
Commission shall be an immediate family member of the Mayor or City Council.
   B.   For purposes of this chapter, "immediate family member" means the
public officials' spouse, registered domestic partner, child, parent, brother
and sister, mother and father-in-law, son and daughter-in-law, aunt and uncle,
grandparents, grandchildren, step relatives, domestic partner relatives in one
of these relationships. (Ord. 176-B, 5-18-2021)
3-7-3: TERM OF APPOINTMENT:
The regular term of office for a Liberty Lake Salary Commission member shall be
four (4) years without compensation. Each member shall hold office until a
successor is appointed and confirmed unless removed for cause pursuant to
section
3-7-4 of this chapter or RCW 35.21.015, as now or hereafter amended. The
initial members shall be appointed for staggered terms as follows:
   A.   Two (2) members shall be appointed for a period of four (4) years; and
   B.   One member shall be appointed for two (2) years.
All subsequent appointments or reappointments shall be for a four (4) year
term. No member of the commission shall be appointed to more than two (2)
terms. Appointments may be made to complete an unexpired term in the event of a
vacancy. (Ord. 176-B, 5-18-2021)
3-7-4: REMOVAL:
The Mayor may remove a member of the Liberty Lake Salary Commission during the
member's term of office only for cause of incapacity, incompetence, neglect of
duty, or malfeasance in office or for a disqualifying change of residence.
(Ord. 176-B, 5-18-2021)
3-7-5: DUTIES:
It is the goal of the Salary Commission to base salaries of elected officials
on realistic standards so that the elected officials may be paid according to
the duties of their offices and so that citizens of the highest quality may be
attracted to public service. The Salary Commission shall have the duty, at such
intervals as determined by the commission, to review the salaries paid by the
City to each elected City official. If after such review the Salary Commission
determines that the salary paid to any elected City official should be
increased or decreased, the commission shall file a written salary schedule
with the City Clerk indicating the increase or decrease in salary. Salaries for
City Council Members shall be uniform. Salary increases established by the
Salary Commission shall be effective on the first pay period of the year
following the decision of the commission. Salary decreases established by the
Salary Commission shall become effective as to incumbent City elected officials
at the commencement of their next subsequent term of office. (Ord. 176-B, 5-18-
2021)
3-7-6: COMMISSION MEETINGS - RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The Liberty Lake Salary Commission shall meet at least once a year to conduct
the business entrusted to the commission by this chapter. The commission may
establish its own rules of procedures consistent with the Liberty Lake
Municipal Code and state law, which shall include a meeting schedule. All
meetings shall be governed by the provisions of the Open Public Meetings Act
and the Public Records Act. At least one (1) of the meetings shall include a
public hearing held prior to the Salary Commission issuing a decision regarding
the establishment of salaries in order to provide an opportunity for the public
and the affected public officials to address the Salary Commission.
In determining the salaries for elected officials, the Salary Commission shall
solicit information regarding the elected official's duties and
responsibilities. Prior to the Salary Commission issuing a salary schedule, the
commission may request additional financial information and other relevant data
from the appropriate City department.
Three (3) members of the Salary Commission shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two (2) members shall be required to approve a salary
schedule for the Mayor and City Council Members, as well as other matters of
the commission. The commission shall keep a written record of its proceedings,
which shall be a public record in accordance with state law. (Ord. 176-B, 5-18-
2021)
3-7-7: REFERENDUM:
Salary increases and decreases shall be subject to referendum petition by the
people of the City in the same manner as a City ordinance upon filing of such
petition with the City Clerk within thirty (30) days after filing of the salary
schedule. In the event of the filing of a valid referendum petition, the salary
increase or decrease shall not go into effect until approved by the vote of the
people. Referendum measures under this section shall be submitted to the voters
of the City at the next following general or municipal election occurring
thirty (30) days or more after the petition is filed, and shall be otherwise
governed by the provisions of the state constitution and general laws
applicable to referendum measures. (Ord. 176-B, 5-18-2021)
CHAPTER 8
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-8-1: Establishment And Purpose
3-8-2: Membership - Appointment
3-8-3: Meetings - Rules
3-8-4: Staff Support
3-8-5: Duties And Responsibilities
3-8-1: ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE:
The Community Engagement Commission is hereby established and shall serve in an
advisory capacity to the Mayor and City Council. The Community Engagement
Commission shall act as a citizen engagement and advisory body to provide
guidance, direction and input to the Mayor and City Council, which will include
but is not limited to:
   A.   Study and submit recommendations to the Mayor and City Council
regarding the best methods to actively and sustainably engage residents in
coproduction-engaging citizens in the planning and implementation process- for
upcoming projects, capital improvements, community initiatives, and other
matters as directed by the Mayor and City Council.
      1.   Explore dynamic, creative, responsive, and inclusive methods that
may include investment in technology to support the mission of the Community
Engagement Commission:
         a.   Propose scope, cost, and benefit of any supplemental technology
infrastructure or platform to the Mayor and City Council;
         b.   Identify a variety of methods that encourage residents who wish
to dialogue and those who wish to provide simple input (e.g., meetings vs.
polls); and
         c.   Establish methods for intrinsic involvement, dialogue,
development of community relationships, and collaboration between the City and
citizens.
      2.   Identify additional policies, procedures, or resolutions that the
Mayor or the City Council should consider supporting and further the goal of
coproduction within the City.
   B.   Advocate for the active engagement of all residents through a variety
of methods and platforms to ensure that there is sufficient and various
opportunity for citizens to meaningfully engage and offer their perspective to
the Mayor and City Council.
   C.   Mobilize and maintain a sustainable network of community leaders who
will work to solicit and gain input from local community areas that facilitates
coproduction now and as the City grows and changes.
   D.   Ensure that the work of the Community Engagement Commission does not
duplicate efforts of the City, City Staff, and other City Commissions, but
rather complements and supports the overall mission and goals of the City.
   E.   Establish effective relationships with existing and future City
Commissions to ensure that co-production is a core focus that guides citizen
input. (Ord. 277, 9-7-2021)
3-8-2: MEMBERSHIP - APPOINTMENT:
   A.   Qualifications: Members appointed to the Community Engagement
Commission must, at all times, be 1) residents of the City of Liberty Lake, or
2) operate a business within the City limits while a member of the Community
Engagement Commission.
   B.   Appointment: Members appointed to the Community Engagement Commission
shall be recommended by the Mayor to the City Council through an application
process. All applications shall be submitted to the City Council for review
with the list of the Mayor's recommendations for appointments. Members will be
confirmed by a majority vote of at least four (4) members of the City Council.
Community Engagement members shall be selected without respect to political
affiliations and shall serve without compensation.
      1.   Number Of Members: The Community Engagement Commission shall
initially consist of a minimum of five (5) and a maximum of nine (9) members.
As additional areas are identified or established, additional members may be
requested by the Community Engagement Commission. Any additional members shall
be appointed as set forth in this chapter.
      2.   The goal will be to have a balanced body of representation of the
City's neighborhoods and for the Community Engagement Commission to reflect the
population of the City which includes ensuring that there is representation
from all generations of residents, including youth and senior citizens.
      3.   The Mayor may recommend appointments for members based upon the
following areas:
         a.   North of I-90: Two (2) members (positions 1 and 6);
         b.   South of I-90 and west of Liberty Lake Road: Two (2) members
(positions 2 and 7);
         c.   South of I-90, east of Liberty Lake Road and North of Mission:
Two (2) members (positions 3 and 8);
         d.   South of I-90, east of Liberty Lake Road, and South of Mission:
Two (2) members (positions 4 and 9); and
         e.   One (1) at large member (position 5).
In the event the Community Engagement Commission moves to seek additional
members up to the maximum number of members, such additions shall be appointed
based upon those areas identified herein.
   C.   Terms: The terms for the initial members in odd numbered positions
shall be two (2) year terms and the terms for the initial member(s) in even
numbered positions shall be three (3) year terms; provided that an initial
members term may be less than two (2) or three (3) years depending on
appointment to allow for expiring terms at the end of a calendar year. The
initial members and their terms shall be proposed by the Mayor and confirmed by
the City Council. All subsequent terms shall be for a three (3) year period
with terms expiring on December 31. No member of the Community Engagement
Commission shall be appointed to more than two (2) terms. Commissioner names,
phone numbers and email contact information will be supplied to the Mayor and
City Council.
   D.   Resignation: If a member is unable to complete their term of service, a
letter of resignation shall be sent to the Mayor indicating the effective date
of the resignation.
   E.   Removal: Members of the Community Engagement Commission may be removed
by the Mayor with the concurrence of the City Council, for neglect of duty,
conflict of interest, malfeasance in office, or other just cause or for
unexcused absences for three (3) consecutive regular meetings. Failure to
qualify as to residency shall constitute an immediate forfeiture of office. The
decision of the City Council regarding membership on the Community Engagement
Commission shall be final and without appeal.
   F.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring other than through the expiration of
terms shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as for
appointments.
   G.   Conflict Of Interest: Members of the Community Engagement Commission
shall fully comply with the Code of Ethics for Municipal Officers, Chapter
42.23 RCW, Appearance of Fairness, Chapter 42.36 RCW, and such other rules and
regulations as may be adopted from time to time by the City Council regulating
the conduct of any person holding appointive office within the City. No elected
official or City employee may be a member of the Community Engagement
Commission. (Ord. 277, 9-7-2021)
3-8-3: MEETINGS - RULES:
   A.   Members of the Community Engagement Commission shall meet and organize
by electing from the members of the Commission, a Chair and a Vice-Chair. It
shall be the duty of the Chair to preside at all meetings. The Vice-Chair shall
perform this duty in the absence of the Chair. If neither the Chair nor Vice-
Chair is present, a member chosen by agreement of the attending members shall
act as chair.
   B.   The term of office for the Chair and Vice-Chair shall be two (2) years
and elections shall occur in the even-numbered years (e.g., 2022, 2024).
   C.   A majority of the Commission members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, and a majority vote of those present shall be
necessary to carry any proposition.
   D.   The Community Engagement Commission shall determine a regular meeting
schedule (time, place, and frequency), as necessary, but no less frequent than
one time per month. Community Engagement Commission meetings shall be conducted
in an open public session and noticed in accordance with the Open Public
Meetings Act, RCW 42.30.
   E.   The Commission shall adopt such rules and regulations as are necessary
for the conduct of business and shall keep a recording of its proceedings.
(Ord. 277, 9-7-2021)
3-8-4: STAFF SUPPORT:
The City Administrator, or designee, shall provide administrative staff support
to the Community Engagement Commission. In addition, the Community Engagement
Commission, through its Chair may request formal opinions or memorandums from
the City Attorney, MRSC, or other City Staff on any pending matters. (Ord. 277,
9-7-2021)
3-8-5: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
In addition to those matters set forth herein, the Community Engagement
Commission, as an advisory body to the Mayor and City Council, shall perform
and have the following duties and responsibilities:
   A.   The Community Engagement Commission shall keep the Mayor, City Council,
and City staff apprised of its activities and recommendations by submitting an
annual written report summarizing the activities for the previous year and
future work plans for the coming year. This report should be submitted to the
Mayor and City Council no later than the end of August each year so any
potential funding requests may be evaluated during the City's yearly budget
cycle;
   B.   Make monthly written or oral reports to the City Council on updates to
Commission goals, progress toward goals, additional needs of the Commission,
and relevant information on topics of interest within the City of Liberty Lake;
   C.   Establish Community Engagement Commission bylaws; and
   D.   Perform such other duties and powers as may be conferred by City
ordinance, resolution, or action of the City Council. (Ord. 277, 9-7-2021)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Business License Required
4-1-3: Exemptions
4-1-4: Application Procedure
4-1-5: Fee; Terms; Penalty
4-1-6: Transfer Or Sale Of Business; New License Required
4-1-7: Penalty For Violation
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
BUSINESS: All kinds of vocations, occupations, professions, enterprises,
establishments, industries, services and all other kinds of activities and
matters that are conducted for private profit or benefit on any premises in the
City of Liberty Lake.
CITY: The City of Liberty Lake, Spokane County, Washington.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS:
   A.   The term "engaging in business" means commencing, conducting, or
continuing in business, and also the exercise of corporate or franchise powers,
as well as liquidating a business when the liquidators thereof hold themselves
out to the public as conducting such business.
   B.   This definition sets forth examples of activities that constitute
engaging in business in the City, and establishes safe harbors for certain of
those activities so that a person who meets the criteria may engage in de
minimus business activities in the City without having to pay a business
license fee. The activities listed in this section are illustrative only and
are not intended to narrow the definition of "engaging in business" in
subsection A of this definition. If an activity is not listed, whether it
constitutes engaging in business in the City shall be determined by considering
all the facts and circumstances and applicable law.
   C.   Without being all inclusive, any one of the following activities
conducted within the City by a person, or its employee, agent, representative,
independent contractor, broker or acting on its behalf constitutes engaging in
business and requires a person to register and obtain a business license.
      1. Owning, renting, leasing, maintaining, or having the right to use, or
using, tangible personal property, intangible personal property, or real
property permanently or temporarily located in the City.
      2. Owning, renting, leasing, using, or maintaining, an office, place of
business, or other establishment in the City.
      3. Soliciting sales.
      4. Making repairs or providing maintenance or service to real or tangible
personal property, including warranty work and property maintenance.
      5. Providing technical assistance or service, including quality control,
product inspections, warranty work, or similar services on or in connection
with tangible personal property sold by the person or on its behalf.
      6. Installing, constructing, or supervising installation or construction
of, real or tangible personal property.
      7. Soliciting, negotiating, or approving franchise, license, or other
similar agreements.
      8. Collecting current or delinquent accounts.
      9. Picking up and transporting tangible personal property, solid waste,
construction debris, or excavated materials.
      10. Providing disinfecting and pest control services, employment and
labor pool services, home nursing care, janitorial services, appraising,
landscape architectural services, security system services, surveying, and real
estate services including the listing of homes and managing real property.
      11. Rendering professional services such as those provided by
accountants, architects, attorneys, auctioneers, consultants, engineers,
professional athletes, barbers, baseball clubs and other sports organizations,
chemists, consultants, psychologists, court reporters, dentists, doctors,
detectives, laboratory operators, teachers, veterinarians.
      12. Meeting with customers or potential customers, even when no sales or
orders are solicited at the meetings.
      13. Training or recruiting agents, representatives, independent
contractors, brokers or others, domiciled or operating on a job in the City,
acting on its behalf, or for customers or potential customers.
      14. Investigating, resolving, or otherwise assisting in resolving
customer complaints.
      15. In-store stocking or manipulating products or goods, sold to and
owned by a customer, regardless of where sale and delivery of the goods took
place.
      16. Delivering goods in vehicles owned, rented, leased, used, or
maintained by the person or acting on its behalf.
   D.   If a person, or its employee, agent, representative, independent
contractor, broker or acting on the person's behalf, engages in no other
activities in or with the City but the following, it need not register and
obtain a business license.
      1. Meeting with suppliers of goods and services as a customer.
      2. Meeting with government representatives in their official capacity,
other than those performing contracting or purchasing functions.
      3. Attending meetings, such as board meetings, retreats, seminars, and
conferences, or other meetings wherein the person does not provide training in
connection with tangible personal property sold by the person or on its behalf.
This provision does not apply to any board of director member or attendee
engaging in business such as a member of a board of directors who attends a
board meeting.
      4. Renting tangible or intangible property as a customer when the
property is not used in the City.
      5. Attending, but not participating in a "trade show" or "multiple vendor
events". Persons participating at a trade show shall review the City's trade
show or multiple vendor event ordinances.
      6. Conducting advertising through the mail.
      7. Soliciting sales by phone from a location outside the City.
   E.   A seller located outside the City merely delivering goods into the City
by means of common carrier is not required to register and obtain a business
license, provided that it engages in no other business activities in the City.
Such activities do not include those in subsection D of this definition.
The City expressly intends that engaging in business include any activity
sufficient to establish nexus for purposes of applying the license fee under
the law and the Constitutions of the United States and the State of Washington.
Nexus is presumed to continue as long as the taxpayer benefits from the
activity that constituted the original nexus generating contact or subsequent
contacts.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, firm, joint stock company,
partnership, joint venture, trust, business trust, club, association, society,
or any group of individuals acting as a unit or otherwise. (Ord. 67-A, 7-1-
2008; amd. Ord. 67-B, 10-2-2018)
4-1-2: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
Every person intending to engage in business within the borders of the City
shall register with the City for a business license and pay the licensing fee
identified in section
4-1-5 of this chapter. Each business location must be registered. If more than
one business is located on a single premises, separate licenses shall be
required for each separate business conducted. The application for a business
license must be approved by the City before business may commence. (Ord. 67-A,
7-1-2008)
4-1-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The following entities and activities shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Governmental Entities: All governmental entities including public
and private elementary, secondary and high schools;
      2.   Newspapers And Periodicals: Deliverers of newspapers and
periodicals;
      3.   Retail Deliveries: Deliverers to and persons soliciting orders from
retail establishments for the delivery and sale of goods, wares and merchandise
to retailers for resale unless located within the City;
      4.   Certain Nonprofit Enterprises: Any person or organization conducting
a nonprofit enterprise when the enterprise is operated without private profit,
for a public, charitable, educational, literary, fraternal or religious
purpose;
      5.   Certain Minors: Minors engaged in babysitting;
      6.   Sale Of Personal Property: The casual sale of items of personal
property where the person conducting such sale is not regularly engaged in the
business of selling items of personal property (for example, garage sales,
service agency bake sales);
      7.   Threshold Exemption: For purposes of the license by this chapter,
any person or business whose annual value of products, gross proceeds of sales,
or gross income of the business in the City is equal to or less than two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00) shall submit a business license registration to
the City Clerk or designee. The fee for such business license registrations
shall be zero dollars ($0.00). This threshold exemption does not apply to
regulatory license requirements or activities that require a specialized
permit. (Ord. 67-B, 10-2-2018; amd. Ord. 67-C, 8-18-2020)
4-1-4: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application for the business license shall be made in writing by
submitting a master business application to the Washington State Department of
Licensing's Master License Service, in coordination with the City Clerk.
   B.   If the applicant is a partnership, the application must be made by one
of the partners; if a corporation, by one of the officers thereof; if a foreign
corporation, partnership or nonresident individual, by the resident agent or
local manager of the corporation, partnership or individual.
   C.   The City Clerk shall present all applications for licenses to the
Mayor. (Ord. 67-A, 7-1-2008)
4-1-5: FEE; TERMS; PENALTY:
   A.   The business license fee for any business to be operated within the
City shall be twenty six dollars ($26.00) for initial application and annual
renewal. The license fee may be prorated in order to match the license
expiration date and term of license established by the master license service.
The fees set forth in this section may be modified from time to time by
resolution of the City Council.
   B.   Application and renewal of the license shall require payment of the
master license handling fee as authorized by Revised Code of Washington 19.02.
   C.   A business failing to complete the annual renewal of its business
license on or before the expiration date will be charged the master license
service delinquency fee as authorized in Revised Code of Washington 19.02.
   D.   Business licenses shall expire on the date established by the master
license service, and the term of license may be prorated to accommodate an
expiration date administered by the master license service. The license must be
renewed through the master license service, in coordination with the City
Clerk, on or before the expiration date in order to continue the business
activity after the expiration date.
   E.   Failure to renew a business license within one hundred twenty (120)
days after the expiration date may result in the cancellation of the license. A
new license application as described in this chapter may be required in order
to continue conducting business in the City after the license has been
canceled. (Ord. 67-A, 7-1-2008)
4-1-6: TRANSFER OR SALE OF BUSINESS; NEW LICENSE REQUIRED:
Upon the sale or transfer to another person of any business licensed by this
chapter, the license issued to the prior owner or transferor shall
automatically expire on the date of such sale or transfer and the new owner
intending to continue such business in the City shall apply for a new business
license pursuant to the procedures established by this chapter. (Ord. 67-A, 7-
1-2008)
4-1-7: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person, and the officers, directors, managing agents, or partners of any
corporation, firm, partnership or other organization or business violating or
failing to comply with any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
collection activities. After notice of the amount due, the City may assign the
delinquent amount for collection to a third party in which case the amount due
shall include both the license fee and any collection charges. (Ord. 67-A, 7-1-
2008)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: License Required
4-2-3: Processing Procedure
4-2-4: License - Applicant Investigation
4-2-5: License Fee
4-2-6: License, Or Facsimile Copy, Must Be Carried On Person While Peddling Or
Soliciting
4-2-7: Hours During Which Peddling Is Allowed
4-2-8: Unlawful To Peddle Or Solicit On Posted Premises
4-2-9: Exemptions
4-2-10: Penalties And Violations
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter shall have the following meanings:
 
MASTER SOLICITOR: Any person or firm that employs or uses agents or employees
                  to act as solicitors or peddlers.
                  Any person who goes from house to house, or place to place,
                  within the City of Liberty Lake, selling and providing
PEDDLER:          immediate delivery or performance, or offering for sale and
                  immediate delivery or performance, any goods, wares,
                  merchandise, services, or anything of value, to persons not
                  commercial users or sellers of such commodities or services.
                  Any person who goes from house to house or place to place
                  within the City of Liberty Lake, taking or offering to take
SOLICITOR:        orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise, services,
                  or anything of value for future delivery or performance from
                  person's not commercial users or sellers of such commodities.
 
The terms peddler or solicitor shall not include any person making
solicitations for charitable or religious purposes or while exercising
political free speech. (Ord. 96A, 4-20-2022)
4-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall perform peddling or solicitation activities within the City
prior to obtaining a peddler/solicitor or master solicitor license, unless such
activity is exempt as provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 96A, 4-20-2022)
4-2-3: PROCESSING PROCEDURE:
The City Clerk shall issue individual peddler and solicitors, or master
solicitor licenses in the name of the City to all persons qualified under the
provisions of this article and shall:
   A.   Adopt all forms and prescribe the information required to implement
this chapter.
   B.   Investigate all applications as set forth in section
4-2-4 of this chapter.
   C.   Check all applications for their endorsements as to compliance by
applicant with all City laws and regulations which they have the duty of
enforcing.
   D.   Notify any applicant of the acceptance or rejection of this application
and shall, upon denial of any registration, state in writing the reason for
rejection and the process for appeal.
   E.   Deny any application for registration, upon written findings that the
granting would be detrimental to public peace, health, or welfare, or that such
application for the registration is not in compliance with any applicable City
laws and regulation.
   F.   When any application for registration is denied, the applicant may
appeal such decision to the Hearing Examiner.
   G.   When the license is denied, and any action instituted by the applicant
to compel its issuance, such applicant shall not engage in the business for
which the registration was refused unless or until the registration is issued
pursuant to an administrative or judicial order. (Ord. 96A, 4-20-2022)
4-2-4: LICENSE - APPLICANT INVESTIGATION:
It shall be the duty of the City Clerk in consultation with the Chief of
Police, and with the applicant’s consent, to investigate each application filed
under section
4-2-3 of this chapter, to determine:
   A.   The existence of the employer or firm of each individual or master
solicitor applicant, by confirming the State or Federal Identification Number.
   B.   The existence of a Liberty Lake endorsement on the approved business
license.
   C.   The genuineness of all credentials presented by the applicant.
   D.   Whether the applicant or any solicitor agent listed on the application
has a conviction for a felony in any state within the ten (10) years preceding
the license application.
   E.   Whether the applicant or any solicitor agent listed on the application
has a conviction for a misdemeanor which causes concern for public safety, as
determined by the Chief of Police or designee, within the ten (10) years
preceding the license application.
F.   The truth of the facts set forth in the application. (Ord. 96A, 4-20-2022;
amd. Ord. 96B, 12-6-2022)
The fee for obtaining an individual peddler or solicitor or master solicitor
license shall be set by Resolution of the City of Liberty Lake. (Ord. 96A, 4-
20-2022)
4-2-6: LICENSE, OR FACSIMILE COPY, MUST BE CARRIED ON PERSON WHILE PEDDLING OR
SOLICITING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any individual to peddle or solicit without
having in their possession the license issued by the City Clerk pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Each master solicitor licensee which employs, hires or engages others
to act as peddlers or solicitors shall furnish as credentials to each employee,
agent, independent contract, or other person peddling or soliciting for or on
behalf of such licensee, a facsimile copy of its license upon which shall
appear the typed or printed name and address, and the signature of the person
to whom such facsimile copy is issued. Such facsimile copies will be issued by
the City Clerk, who will maintain a listing of all persons to whom facsimile
copies are issued. A master solicitor's licensee shall be responsible for the
conduct and acts performed within the scope of employment or contract of any
person peddling or soliciting for or on behalf of the licensee, and shall
maintain a list of all persons to whom facsimile copies of its license have
been issued. It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person to peddle or
solicit without having in their possession such license, or a facsimile copy
thereof, which shall be shown to all persons contacted, and to any police
officer, deputy sheriff or license officer of the City upon the request of such
officer. Such facsimile copies shall be nontransferable and shall at all times
remain in the possession of the person to whom issued. Whenever any person to
whom a facsimile copy has been issued ceases to act as a peddler or solicitor
for or on behalf of the master solicitor licensee, notification shall be given
to the City Clerk by the licensee and the facsimile copy issued to such person
shall be surrendered to the licensee. (Ord. 96A, 4-20-2022)
4-2-7: HOURS DURING WHICH PEDDLING IS ALLOWED:
It is unlawful for any person to peddle or solicit, except during the following
hours, without the specific prior consent of the prospective buyer, between ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. or dusk (whichever is
earlier) of any day. (Ord. 96A, 4-20-2022)
4-2-8: UNLAWFUL TO PEDDLE OR SOLICIT ON POSTED PREMISES:
It is unlawful for any peddler or solicitor to ring the bell, or knock on the
door, or otherwise attempt to contact an occupant for the purpose of peddling
or soliciting any residence or dwelling at which a sign bearing the words "No
Peddlers or Solicitors" (or words of similar import indicating that peddlers or
solicitors are not wanted on said premises) is painted, affixed, or otherwise
exposed to public view; provided, that this section shall not apply to any
peddler or solicitor who rings the bell, knocks on the door, or otherwise
attempts to contact an occupant of such residence or dwelling at the invitation
or with the consent of the occupant thereof. (Ord. 96A, 4-20-2022)
4-2-9: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   A.   Any instrumentality of the United States, State of Washington, or any
political subdivision thereof, with respect to the exercise of governmental
functions.
   B.   Non-profit organizations, including but not limited to religious,
civil, charitable, benevolent, non-profit, cultural or youth organizations.
Activities of any non-profit organization must be reported to the City Clerk
for notification purposes only.
   C.   Farmers, gardeners, or other persons who deliver or peddle any
agricultural, horticultural, or farm products which they have actually grown,
harvested, or produced, provided that this exemption does not apply to the sale
of firewood.
   D.   Any persons selling or delivering door-to-door or on an established
route, milk, or milk products, bakery goods, laundry, dry-cleaning services, or
baby diapers.
   E.   Newspaper carriers who deliver door-to-door on an established route(s).
   F.   Any person who is specifically requested to call upon others for the
purpose of displaying goods, literature, or giving information about any
article, service, or product.
   G.   Bona fide candidates, campaign workers, and political committees
campaigning on behalf of candidates or on ballot issues and persons soliciting
signatures of registered voters on petitions to be submitted to any
governmental agency. (Ord. 96A, 4-20-2022)
4-2-10: PENALTIES AND VIOLATIONS:
Any person found in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   A.   Criminal Penalties: Any person who fails to comply with the provisions
of the article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, be
punished as provided in RCW 9A.20.021(3). Any person violating or failing to
comply with any of the provisions of this article may be punished by a fine of
not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or imprisoned for not more
than ninety (90) days, or both, for each day or part of a day during which the
unlawful or violation occurs. The person may also be ordered to discontinue the
unlawful act or correct the violation.
   B.   Civil Penalties: Any person who fails to comply with the provision of
this article is, in addition to any criminal penalties, subject to a maximum
civil penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each day or portion of the
day that the violation continues pursuant to RCW 7.80.
   C.   Other Legal Remedies: Nothing in this chapter limits the right of the
City to pursue other lawful, criminal, civil or equitable remedies to abate,
discontinue, correct or discourage unlawful acts under or in violation of this
article. (Ord. 96A, 4-20-2022)
CHAPTER 3
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Adoption Of Regulations
4-3-1: ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Pursuant to RCW 35A.11.020, 35A.21.160 and 35.21.180, the city hereby
adopts by reference chapter 7.80 entitled "adult entertainment establishments"
of the Spokane County code as presently constituted or hereinafter amended, as
the adult entertainment regulations of the city. Said chapter 7.80 of the
Spokane County code is on file in the office of the city clerk/treasurer and
incorporated herein by this reference as if fully set forth.
   B.   To the extent that any provision of the Spokane County code, or any
other law, rule, regulation or document(s) referenced in said chapter 7.80
thereof is necessary or convenient to establish the validity, enforceability or
interpretation of the adult entertainment establishment section, such provision
of the Spokane County code, or other law, rule, regulation or document(s) is
hereby adopted by reference.
   C.   Unless the context requires otherwise, any reference to the county or
to Spokane County shall refer to the city, and any reference to county staff or
licensing officer shall refer to the mayor or his designee. To the extent that
the provisions adopted by reference in this chapter refer to the city council
or other licensing body, the city council hereby designates and confers
jurisdiction upon the hearing examiner 1  to hold hearings and render decisions
on matters which relate to said chapter 7.80. (Ord. 68, 10-2-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 9 of this code.
CHAPTER 4
LODGING TAX
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Tax Imposed
4-4-3: Tourism Promotion Funds
4-4-4: Administration
4-4-5: Advisory Committee
4-4-6: Violation; Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of "selling price", "seller", "buyer", "consumer" and all other
definitions as are now contained in Revised Code Of Washington 82.08.010, and
subsequent amendments thereto, are adopted as the definitions for the tax
levied in this chapter. (Ord. 17, 6-26-2001)
4-4-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Imposition: There is levied a special excise tax of two percent (2%) on
the sale of or charge made for the furnishing of lodging that is subject to tax
under Revised Code Of Washington chapter 82.08. The tax imposed under Revised
Code Of Washington chapter 82.08 applies to the sale of or charge made for the
furnishing of lodging by a hotel, rooming house, tourist court, motel, or
trailer camp, and the granting of any similar license to use real property, as
distinguished from the renting or leasing of real property. It shall be
presumed that the occupancy of real property for a continuous period of one
month or more constitutes a rental or lease of real property and not a mere
license to use and enjoy the same.
   B.   Imposition Of Special Excise Tax: There is levied a separate special
excise tax of 1.3 percent on the sale of or charge made for the furnishing of
lodging that is subject to tax under Revised Code Of Washington chapter 82.08,
pursuant to Revised Code Of Washington 67.28.181.
   C.   Imposition Of Tax In Addition To Other Taxes And Fees: The taxes levied
in this chapter shall be in addition to any license fee or any other tax
imposed or levied under any law or any other city ordinance. (Ord. 17-B, 1-19-
2016)
4-4-3: TOURISM PROMOTION FUNDS:
   A.   Creation Of Tourism Promotion Fund: There is created a special fund in
the treasury of the city and all taxes collected under this chapter shall be
placed in this special fund to be used solely for the purpose of paying all or
any part of the cost of tourist promotion, acquisition of tourism related
facilities, or operation of tourism related facilities or to pay for any other
uses as authorized in Revised Code Of Washington chapter 67.28, as now or
hereafter amended.
   B.   Creation Of Tourism Promotion Capital Fund: There is created a special
fund in the treasury of the city and all taxes collected under this chapter
shall be placed in this special fund to be used solely for the purpose of
paying all or any part of the cost of tourist promotion, acquisition of tourism
related facilities, or operation of tourism related facilities or to pay for
any other uses as authorized in Revised Code Of Washington chapter 67.28, as
now or hereafter amended. (Ord. 17-B, 1-19-2016)
4-4-4: ADMINISTRATION:
For the purposes of the tax as levied in this chapter:
   A.   The department of revenue is designated as the agent of the city for
the purposes of collection and administration of the tax.
   B.   The administrative provisions contained in Revised Code Of Washington
82.08.050 through 82.08.060 and 82.32 shall apply for administration and
collection of the tax by the department of revenue.
   C.   All rules and regulations adopted by the department of revenue for the
administration of Revised Code Of Washington chapter 82.08 are adopted by
reference.
   D.   The department of revenue is authorized to prescribe and utilize such
forms and reporting procedures as the department may deem necessary and
appropriate. (Ord. 17, 6-26-2001)
4-4-5: ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
The city council shall establish a lodging tax advisory committee consisting of
five (5) members. Two (2) members of the committee shall be representatives of
businesses required to collect the tax and, at least, two (2) members shall be
persons involved in activities authorized to be funded by the collected
revenue. The city shall solicit recommendations for membership on the committee
from organizations representing businesses that collect the tax, and
organizations that are authorized to receive funds under this chapter. The
fifth member of the committee shall be an elected official of the city.
Annually, the membership of the committee shall be reviewed.
The mayor shall nominate, and the council shall confirm, the persons and the
council member serving on the lodging tax advisory committee. Nominations shall
state the term of committee membership. Appointments shall be for one and two
(2) year terms.
The lodging tax advisory committee shall conduct its business under the open
public meetings act, with notice of its meeting(s) posted at city hall and
published at least once in a newspaper of local circulation. The committee
shall follow "Robert's Rules Of Order", with minutes identifying the matters
and action taken by the advisory committee. The meeting shall be public, with
an opportunity to hear from persons who are interested in the use and
expenditure of the tourism promotion fund. The advisory committee may adopt
rules and an agenda for the conduct of its business. The city elected official
appointed to the advisory committee shall serve as chair.
Following its meeting(s) and action, the advisory committee shall submit its
written recommendations on the use and expenditure of the tourism promotion
fund to the city council for final action. The city council may act on the
recommendations as submitted by the advisory committee, or amend it pursuant to
its sole discretion. (Ord. 17A-1, 2-21-2006)
4-4-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter, and such violation shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Every person convicted of a violation of any provisions of this chapter shall
be punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense. (Ord. 17, 6-26-2001; amd. 2004 Code; Ord. 17A-1, 2-21-2006)
CHAPTER 5
GAMBLING ACTIVITIES TAX
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Tax Imposed
4-5-3: Exemptions
4-5-4: License And Notice Requirements
4-5-5: Administration
4-5-6: Tax Collections
4-5-7: Inspections And Audits
4-5-8: Violation; Penalties
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms used herein shall have the meanings
provided in RCW chapter 9.46, as the same now exists or may hereafter be
amended, and as further provided by the rules and regulations of the Washington
state gambling commission, as set forth in Washington administrative code
chapter 230, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, unless
otherwise specifically provided herein. (Ord. 23, 7-10-2001)
4-5-2: TAX IMPOSED:
Pursuant to RCW 9.46.110 as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended,
there is levied upon all persons, associations or organizations conducting or
operating in the city any of the activities listed below a tax to be paid to
the city, in the amount hereinafter specified:
   A.   Bingo And Raffles: A tax in the amount equal to five percent (5%) of
the gross receipts from a bingo game or raffle, less the amount awarded as cash
or merchandise prizes.
   B.   Punchboards And Pulltabs:
      1.   Commercial stimulant operators shall pay a tax in an amount equal to
five percent (5%) of the gross receipts from the operation of punchboards and
pulltabs;
      2.   Bonafide charitable or nonprofit organizations shall pay a tax in an
amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the gross receipts from the operation of
the games, less the amount awarded as prizes or merchandise.
   C.   Social Card Playing: Operators shall pay a tax equal to fifteen percent
(15%) of the gross receipts from such games.
   D.   Amusement Games: Amusement games which are authorized for operation
pursuant to the provisions of the Washington administrative code shall be
subject to the levy of a tax in the amount of two percent (2%) of the gross
receipts from the amusement game, less the amount awarded as prizes. Such tax
is for the purpose of providing the city's actual costs of enforcement of the
laws of the state of Washington and the city's ordinances. (Ord. 23, 7-10-2001)
4-5-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Bingo and amusement games conducted by a bonafide charitable or
nonprofit organization shall be exempt from the tax imposed by section
4-5-2 of this chapter, when such organization has no paid operating or
management personnel, and its gross receipts from bingo or amusement games, or
a combination thereof, does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
year, less the amount awarded as cash, merchandise or prizes.
   B.   No tax may be imposed on the first ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) of
gross receipts, less the amount awarded as cash or merchandise prizes, from
raffles conducted by any bonafide charitable or nonprofit organization as
defined in RCW 9.46.110. (Ord. 23, 7-10-2001)
4-5-4: LICENSE AND NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
For the purposes of identifying those subject to the taxes imposed by this
chapter, each person, association or organization intending to conduct or
operate any gambling activity which requires a license pursuant to RCW chapter
9.46, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, shall no later than five
(5) days prior to the commencement of any such gambling activity, file with the
city clerk/treasurer a sworn declaration of intent to conduct or operate such
activity on a form to be prescribed by the city clerk/treasurer, together with
a copy of any license issued for that gambling activity by the Washington state
gambling commission or its designee. (Ord. 23, 7-10-2001)
4-5-5: ADMINISTRATION:
The city clerk/treasurer is hereby authorized to create a gambling tax form,
which shall be available to the public in reasonable numbers in the city clerk/
treasurer's office during regular business hours. Taxes paid hereunder shall be
accompanied by the gambling tax return form and a copy of the taxpayer's
quarterly report to the Washington state gambling commission for the period in
which the tax has accrued. The taxpayer shall be required to swear and affirm
under penalty of perjury under the laws of the state of Washington that the
information given in the return is true, accurate and complete.
The city clerk/treasurer is authorized, but not required, to mail to taxpayers
gambling tax return forms for remitting the tax owing hereunder. Failure of the
taxpayer to receive such a form shall not excuse timely payment of all taxes
due and owing hereunder. (Ord. 23, 7-10-2001)
4-5-6: TAX COLLECTIONS:
   A.   Payment Of Tax: The tax imposed by this chapter shall be due and
payable in quarterly installments, and remitted to the city clerk/treasurer,
together with the required information on the return form(s), as prescribed by
the city clerk/treasurer, on or before the fifteenth day of month succeeding
the quarterly period in which the tax accrued. Any tax remaining unpaid on the
sixteenth day of the month next succeeding the quarterly period in which the
tax accrued shall be delinquent; provided, however:
      1.   Whenever an entity subject to the tax imposed by this chapter ceases
the taxable activity for a period of more than two (2) consecutive calendar
months, the tax shall become due and payable on the tenth calendar day
following the last date of business.
      2.   Whenever the city clerk/treasurer and city administrator concur that
the city's ability to collect the tax owing from the taxpayer may be in
jeopardy, the city clerk/treasurer shall inform the taxpayer, giving not less
than ten (10) days' written notice, that he is required to remit taxes owing
hereunder at a shorter interval than required herein. This decision will be
based upon a history of delinquent payment or an assignment for the benefit of
creditors, or such other evidence available to the city. Notice shall be given
by regular and certified mail. In the event that the certified mail is refused
by the taxpayer and returned to the city, notice shall be deemed effective upon
the date of mailing of the notice by regular mail.
   B.   Delinquent Taxes: Whenever any tax imposed hereunder shall become
delinquent, the city clerk/treasurer is authorized to file a lien upon the
personal and real property used in the gambling activity taxable by this
chapter in the same manner as provided for under RCW 84.60.010, as the same now
exists or may hereafter be amended. Pursuant to RCW 9.46.110 as the same now
exists or may hereafter be amended, the lien shall attach on the date the tax
becomes due and shall relate back and have priority against the real and
personal property to the same extent as ad valorem taxes. The city is further
authorized to bring a civil action to collect fees, interest, penalties and
delinquent taxes owing hereunder pursuant to RCW 9.46.350, as the same now
exists or may hereafter be amended.
   C.   Late Penalty And Interest:
      1.   If a payment of any tax imposed hereunder becomes delinquent, there
shall be added to said tax a late penalty in an amount as may be established
from time to time by resolution of the city council.
      2.   In addition to an assessment of late penalties, any quarterly tax
payment not paid by the due date shall bear interest at the maximum legal rate.
(Ord. 23, 7-10-2001; amd. 2004 Code)
4-5-7: INSPECTIONS AND AUDITS:
   A.   The premises and paraphernalia, and all the books and records of any
person, association or organization conducting gambling activities pursuant to
RCW chapter 9.46 as now existing or hereafter amended, and any person,
association or organization receiving profits therefrom or having any interest
therein shall be subject to inspection and audit at any reasonable time, with
or without notice, upon demand, by the chief of police or his designee for the
purpose of determining compliance or noncompliance with the provisions of this
chapter, RCW chapter 9.46 and any rules or regulations adopted thereunder. A
reasonable time for the purpose of this section shall be: 1) if the items or
records to be inspected or audited are located anywhere upon a premises, any
portion of which is regularly open to the public or members and guests, then at
any time when the premises are so open, or which they are usually open; or 2)
if the items or records to be inspected or audited are not located upon the
premises set out in 1) above, then at any time between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.
   M.   and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M., Monday through Friday.
   B.   Each person, organization or association engaging in any gambling
activity taxable under this chapter shall maintain records respecting that
activity which truly, completely and accurately disclose all information
necessary for the city to determine the taxpayer's tax liability hereunder
during each base tax period. Such records shall be kept and maintained for a
period of not less than five (5) years.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of each individual taxpayer, and for
organizations, associations or corporations, the responsibility of each owner,
officer, director or manager thereof, to make available at the times set forth
above such financial records and information as the city clerk/treasurer or his
designee may require in order to determine full compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 23, 7-10-2001)
4-5-8: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Whoever, in any application for a license or in any book or record
required to be maintained by this chapter or by the Washington state gambling
commission or in any report required to be submitted to said commission or to
the city hereunder, shall make any false or misleading statement, or make any
false or misleading entry or wilfully fail to maintain or make any entry
required to be maintained or made, or who wilfully refuses to produce for
inspection by the commission or its designee any book, record or document
required to be maintained or made by federal or state law or this chapter,
shall be guilty of a gross misdemeanor subject to the penalties set forth in
RCW 9A.20.021, as now existing or hereafter amended.
   B.   RCW 9.46.185, 9.46.190 and 9.45.195, as now existing or hereafter
amended, are hereby adopted by this reference as if set forth fully herein.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty authorized by this chapter, any
person, association or organization violating any provision of this chapter may
be subject to loss of its business license. (Ord. 23, 7-10-2001)
CHAPTER 6
ADMISSIONS TAX
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Tax Imposed
4-6-3: Exemptions
4-6-4: Administration
4-6-5: Appeal Procedures
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
ADMISSION CHARGE: In addition to its usual and ordinary meaning is the amount
which must be paid as a condition of gaining admission to a place and/or
participating in an event identified in section
4-6-2 of this chapter. The term includes:
   A.   A charge made for season tickets or subscriptions;
   B.   A cover charge, or a charge made for use of seats and tables reserved
or otherwise, and other similar accommodations;
   C.   A charge made for rental or use of equipment (which includes golf balls
but does not include power or pull carts) or facilities for purposes of
recreation or amusement; if the rental of the equipment or facilities is
necessary to the enjoyment of a privilege for which a general admission is
charged, the combined charges shall be considered as the admission charge.
PERSON: Any individual, receiver, assignee, firm, partnership, corporation,
company, association, society or any group of individuals acting as a unit
whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal or nonprofit or otherwise.
PLACE: Any structure, enclosure, development, improvements or portion thereof
used for the activities described in section
4-6-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 108, 12-17-2002)
4-6-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Imposition: A tax in the amount of five percent (5%) of the admission
charge is hereby fixed and levied on every person who pays an admission charge
to any golf course, driving range, pitch-and-putt course or miniature golf
course in the city. Such tax shall be measured by applying the five percent
(5%) tax to the regular admission charge or price imposed for the above
activities. For reduced admission charges such as a season pass or multiple
play discount, the tax shall be five percent (5%) of the reduced charge. The
tax is payable at the point of sale.
   B.   Limitation On Use: Revenues collected by the imposition of the tax
established by this chapter shall be limited as to use to:
      1.   The administration of this chapter; and
      2.   The acquisition, improvement and maintenance of parks, golf courses
and other open, natural spaces or similar public lands. "Other open or natural
spaces" shall include, without limitation, trees and landscaping as part of a
motorized or nonmotorized transportation system and conservation easements
inside or outside the city; and provide funds for payment of interfund loans,
other buildings related to uses as described in this section. (Ord. 108, 12-17-
2002)
4-6-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   No tax shall be levied on any person who is admitted free and from whom
no compensating payment is obtained.
   B.   No tax shall be levied on any person who is participating in an
activity sponsored by an elementary, middle or junior high school and high
school. (Ord. 108, 12-17-2002)
4-6-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Collection Of Tax: Every person receiving or entitled to payment for
admission on which a tax is levied under this chapter shall collect the amount
of the tax imposed from the person making the admission payment. The tax to be
collected under this chapter shall be deemed to be held in trust by the person
required to collect the same until paid to the city. Any person required to
collect the tax imposed under this chapter who fails to collect the same or,
having collected the same, fails to remit the same to the city clerk/treasurer
in the manner prescribed by this chapter shall nevertheless be personally
liable to the city for the amount of such tax, and shall, unless the remittance
be made as herein required, be subject to the penalties in this chapter.
   B.   Payment: The tax imposed hereunder shall be collected at the time the
admission charge is paid or imposed on the person seeking admission to any
place mentioned in section
4-6-2 of this chapter. The tax shall be reported and remitted by the person
receiving the tax to the city in monthly installments and remittances therefor
on or before the last day of the month succeeding the end of the monthly period
in which the tax is collected or approved. Payment or remittance of the tax
collected may be made by check, unless payment or remittance is otherwise
required by the city, but payment by check shall not relieve the person
collecting the tax from liability for payment and remittance of the tax to the
city unless the check is honored and is in the full and correct amount.
   C.   Reporting Requirements: The person receiving any payment for admissions
shall make out a return upon such forms setting forth such information as the
city may require, showing the amount of the tax upon admissions for the
preceding monthly period, and shall sign and transmit the same to the city with
a remittance for said amount. The finance director may require verified annual
returns from any person receiving admission payments setting forth such
additional information as deemed necessary to determine correctly the amount of
tax collected and payable. The books, records and accounts of any person
collecting a tax herein levied shall, as to admission charges and tax
collections, be at all reasonable times subject to examination and audit by the
finance director.
   D.   Rules And Regulations: The finance director shall have power to adopt
rules and regulations not inconsistent with the terms of this chapter, subject
to the approval of the mayor and city council, for carrying out and enforcing
the payment, collection and remittance of the tax herein levied; and a copy of
said rules and regulations shall be on file and available for public
examination in city hall. Failure or refusal to comply with any such rules and
regulations shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   E.   Records: It shall be the duty of every person liable for any tax
imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve for a period of two (2) years such
suitable records as may be necessary to determine the amount of any tax due
under the provisions of this chapter.
   F.   Failure To File Return: If any person shall fail or refuse to make any
return required by this chapter, the finance director or designee shall proceed
in such manner as reasonable to obtain facts and information on which to base
an estimate of the tax due. As soon as the finance director or designee shall
procure such facts and information upon which to base the assessment of any tax
payable by any person who has failed or refused to make a return, the finance
director shall proceed to determine and assess against such person the tax and
penalties provided for by this chapter and shall notify such taxpayer by mail
of the total amount of such tax, penalties and interest, and the total amount
shall be paid within ten (10) days from the date of such notice.
   G.   Delinquent Payments:
      1.   If any person fails or refuses to pay the tax required to be paid by
this chapter within the time and in the amount specified by this chapter, the
finance director shall add to any tax due, interest at the rate of one percent
(1%) per month of the amount of the tax on each thirty (30) days or portion
thereof from the date upon which the tax is due as provided by this chapter,
and, if said tax shall remain delinquent and unpaid for a period of thirty (30)
days from the date that the same was due and payable, the finance director
shall add a further penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the tax due.
      2.   The tax imposed by this chapter, and all penalties and interest
shall constitute a debt to the city and may be collected by court proceedings
in the same manner as any other debt. Any judgment entered in favor of the city
may include an award to the city of all court and collection costs including
attorney fees to the extent permitted by law. Amounts declared delinquent for
more than sixty (60) days by the finance director may be assigned to a third
party for collection in which case the amount of any collection charges shall
be in addition to all other amounts owed.
   H.   Sale Or Disposal Of Business: Whenever any person required to pay a tax
under this chapter quits business or otherwise disposes of his business, any
tax payable hereunder shall become immediately due and payable and such person
shall immediately make a return and pay the tax due, and, if such tax is not
paid by the person within ten (10) days from the date of such sale, exchange or
disposal, the purchaser or successor shall likewise thereupon become liable for
the payment of the full amount of such tax. (Ord. 108, 12-17-2002)
   I.   Overpayment: Money paid to the city through error, or otherwise not in
payment of the fee imposed by this chapter, or in excess of such fee, shall,
upon discovery, be credited against any fee due or to become due from such
person hereunder; provided, however, that overpayments extending beyond one
year prior to notification of the city shall not be refunded. If such person
has ceased doing business in the city, any such overpayment shall be refunded
to the person. (2004 Code)
4-6-5: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
Any taxpayer aggrieved by the amount of the tax, interest or penalties imposed
under the provisions of this chapter may, upon full payment of the amount
assessed, appeal such assessment by filing a written notice of appeal with the
city clerk/treasurer within fourteen (14) days from the date such taxpayer was
given notice of the amounts due. The city clerk shall fix a time and place for
hearing of such appeal before the city hearing examiner with such hearing
occurring not more than sixty (60) days after the filing of the notice of
appeal. The hearing examiner shall render a decision based upon the evidence
submitted including the correct amount of the fee, penalty and interest due the
city. The decision by the hearing examiner shall be final with further appeal
to the superior court of Washington in and for Spokane County within thirty
(30) days after the date of the hearing examiner's decision. (Ord. 108, 12-17-
2002)
CHAPTER 7
CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES 1
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Franchise Fees
4-7-3: Franchise Agreements Required
4-7-4: Rules And Regulations
4-7-5: Payments
4-7-6: Appeals
4-7-7: Violation; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 8 of this code.
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
CABLE TELEVISION: In accordance with limits set forth by federal law, includes
all persons engaged in or carrying on a business and employing or providing a
community antenna system of coaxial cables or other electrical conductors and
equipment used or to be used primarily to distribute and receive television
broadcast signals or radio signals directly or indirectly off the air and
transmit them to subscribers for a fee all as further defined under the cable
communications policy act of 1984, as amended.
CITY ADMINISTRATOR: The city administrator of the city of Liberty Lake,
Washington, or his designee.
GROSS INCOME: The value proceeding or accruing from the performance of the
particular business involved, excluding receipts or proceeds from the use or
sale of tangible property and real property or any interest therein, proceeds
from the sale of notes, bonds, mortgages or other evidence of indebtedness or
stock and the like, receipts from operations incidental to the performance of
the particular business involved, and with a deduction on the amount of credit
loss and uncollectibles actually sustained.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, association or entity of any type
engaged in a business subject to payment of fees under this chapter.
TAXPAYER: Any person liable for the tax imposed under this chapter. (Ord. 24,
7-17-2001)
4-7-2: FRANCHISE FEES:
   A.   Fee Defined: The fee provided for in this chapter shall be known as the
franchise fee, and is levied upon the privilege of conducting cable television
business within the city.
   B.   Amount Of Franchise Fee: There is levied upon, and shall be collected
from a person engaged in or carrying on the business of selling or the
furnishing of cable television services, a franchise fee equal to five percent
(5%) of the gross income derived from such business in the city during the
period for which the fee is due.
   C.   Use And Accountability Of Fee: All fees collected pursuant to this
chapter shall be deposited into the general fund of the city, and shall be used
for the funding of general city services or capital facilities as the city
council shall direct through its annual budget process. (Ord. 24, 7-17-2001)
4-7-3: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS REQUIRED:
All persons subject to this chapter shall execute a franchise agreement with
the city upon a form approved by the city council. No cable television service
shall be furnished until approval by the city council and such agreement has
been executed by the person providing service. (Ord. 24, 7-17-2001)
4-7-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   City Administrator To Make Rules: The city administrator shall have the
power to adopt and enforce rules and regulations not inconsistent with this
chapter or with the law for the purposes of carrying out the provisions
thereof. (Ord. 24, 7-17-2001)
   B.   Accounting Year: The twelve (12) month period (or portion thereof) for
purposes of this franchise fee shall commence January 1 and shall end on
December 31 with fees due during such periods or portions thereof. (Ord. 24, 7-
17-2001; amd. 2004 Code)
   C.   Exceptions And Deductions: There is excepted and deducted from the
total gross income upon which the fee is computed, so much of the total gross
income as is derived from business which the city is prohibited from collecting
a fee under the constitution or laws of the United States and the constitution
or laws of the state of Washington.
   D.   Monthly Installments: The fee imposed by subsection
4-7-2B of this chapter shall be due and payable in monthly installments, and
remittance therefor shall be made on or before the last day of the month
following the end of the monthly period in which the fee is accrued. On or
before said due date, the franchise holder shall file with the city
administrator a written return upon such form and setting forth such
information as the city administrator shall reasonably require relating to the
accurate computation and collection of this fee, together with the payment of
the amount.
   E.   Records: Each person shall keep records reflecting the amount of the
gross income on sales and services within the city, and such records shall be
open at all reasonable times for the inspection of the city administrator or
his designee to verify information provided on any record, or to determine
whether such return is required to be filed. (Ord. 24, 7-17-2001)
4-7-5: PAYMENTS:
   A.   Payment Due: If a person fails, neglects or refuses to make his return
as and when required in this chapter, the city administrator is authorized to
determine the amount of the fee payable under provisions of subsection
4-7-2B of this chapter, and to notify such person of the amount so determined.
The amount so fixed shall thereupon be the fee and be immediately due and
payable, together with penalty and interest. Delinquent fees, including any
penalties, are subject to an interest charge at the maximum legal rate per year
on the unpaid balance from the date any such fees become due as provided in
subsection
4-7-4D of this chapter. (Ord. 24, 7-17-2001; amd. 2004 Code)
   B.   Delinquent Payments: If a person subject to this fee fails to pay any
fee required by this chapter within fifteen (15) days after the due date
thereof, there shall be added to such fee a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the
amount of such fee, and any fee due under this chapter that is unpaid and all
penalties thereon shall constitute a debt to the city and may be collected by
court proceedings, which remedy shall be in addition to all other remedies.
   C.   Overpayment: Money paid to the city through error, or otherwise not in
payment of the fee imposed by this chapter, or in excess of such fee, shall,
upon discovery, be credited against any fee due or to become due from such
person hereunder; provided however, that overpayments extending beyond one year
prior to notification of the city shall not be refunded. If such person has
ceased doing business in the city, any such overpayment shall be refunded to
the person. (Ord. 24, 7-17-2001)
4-7-6: APPEALS:
A person aggrieved by the amount of the fee, penalties, interest or civil
infraction fine determined by the city administrator or his designee, under the
provisions of this chapter, may appeal such determination to the city council,
or to the hearing examiner if the city council so establishes 1 . (Ord. 24, 7-
17-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 9 of this code.
4-7-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   No person subject to this chapter shall fail or refuse to file returns
or to pay the fee when due, nor shall any person make a false statement or
representation in, or in connection with, any such return, or otherwise violate
or refuse to comply with this chapter or with any rule promulgated pursuant to
subsection
4-7-4A of this chapter.
   B.   In addition to the interest and delinquent filing penalties set forth
above, a wilful violation of or failure to comply with this chapter is a civil
infraction, subject to a fine of up to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for
each day that a violation continues. (Ord. 24, 7-17-2001)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Definitions
4-8-2: Permit
4-8-3: Permit Application Fee
4-8-4: Permit Application Contents
4-8-5: Permit Application Filing
4-8-6: Bond Required
4-8-7: Insurance Required
4-8-8: Permit Issuance Standards
4-8-9: Traffic Control
4-8-10: Appeal Procedure
4-8-11: Permit Revocation Or Suspension
4-8-12: Rules And Policy
4-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: The person, firm or entity making application for a permit.
CITY: The city of Liberty Lake.
PARADE: Any march or procession consisting of people, animals, bicycles,
vehicles, or combination thereof, except wedding processions and funeral
processions, upon any public street or sidewalk which does not comply with
adopted traffic regulations or controls.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: A street or other public place (i.e., park) under the control
and authority of the city.
RUN: An organized procession or race consisting of people, bicycles, or other
vehicular devices or combination thereof comprising fifteen (15) or more
persons upon the public street or sidewalk.
SPECIAL EVENT: Any use, parade, run, street dance, or other demonstration,
activity or exhibition on public property.
STREET DANCE: Any organized dance of five (5) or more persons on any public
street, public sidewalk or publicly owned parking lot.
STREET OR STREETS: Any public roadway, sidewalk, or portions thereof in the
city dedicated to the public use.
USE: Any activity (including sporting activities), function or event where
fifteen (15) or more people are estimated to attend the event. It is recognized
that informal gatherings of people, family picnics, practices for sporting
events, or groups playing or recreating together should be exempt from this
chapter. Such exemptions shall be recognized by rule and policy pursuant to
section
4-8-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 142, 10-18-2005)
4-8-2: PERMIT:
No person shall conduct a special event upon public property unless a permit
has been obtained from the mayor or designee. (Ord. 142, 10-18-2005)
4-8-3: PERMIT APPLICATION FEE:
The fee for a special event shall be determined by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 142, 10-18-2005)
4-8-4: PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS:
Applications for a special events permit shall state:
   A.   Name and address of applicant;
   B.   Date and time of event;
   C.   Name of sponsoring person or organization;
   D.   Probable number of participants;
   E.   Route and/or location of the special event, to include starting and
termination point, if applicable;
   F.   Required access to public right of way;
   G.   Location of assembly area;
   H.   Copy of general liability insurance policy stating coverage;
   I.   Security and traffic control provisions;
   J.   Emergency medical provisions; and
   K.   Cleanup plan. (Ord. 142, 10-18-2005)
4-8-5: PERMIT APPLICATION FILING:
An application for a special event permit shall be filed with the city clerk
not less than fifteen (15) days before the date on which the event will occur.
The city clerk shall notify the applicant in writing of approval or
disapproval, no later than seven (7) days following the date of application.
(Ord. 142, 10-18-2005)
4-8-6: BOND REQUIRED:
The city clerk may require a cash deposit or performance bond as a guarantee
that the public property will be cleaned and returned to the condition in which
it was found. The amount shall not be less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and no
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The mayor shall determine the
amount of bond or deposit by considering the type of event, projected number of
participants and spectators, and the sponsor's experience. For an event where
cleanup or other potential expenses would likely exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), the mayor shall refer the matter to the city council for
consideration. (Ord. 142, 10-18-2005)
4-8-7: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
The applicant shall provide liability insurance with a combined single limit of
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence. Evidence of insurance shall
be filed with the application and shall name the city as an additional named
insured. Depending upon the nature of the special event and its risk to the
public and private individuals, the mayor, in consultation with the city
attorney, may reduce the liability limits or waive this requirement. (Ord. 142,
10-18-2005)
4-8-8: PERMIT ISSUANCE STANDARDS:
The city shall issue a special event permit unless:
   A.   The time, route, and size will unreasonably disrupt the movement of
traffic along streets;
   B.   The size or nature of the event requires supervision by a significant
number of police officers that causes unreasonable expense or diversion of
police duties;
   C.   The applicant failed to remit all fees, documents, or bonds; or
   D.   The event exceeds five (5) consecutive days. (Ord. 142, 10-18-2005)
4-8-9: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
The mayor or designee may require any reasonable and necessary traffic control.
The applicant shall be responsible for all expenses associated with traffic
control. The city clerk shall notify the applicant of any city projected
traffic control expense and collect the amount before the permit is issued.
(Ord. 142, 10-18-2005)
4-8-10: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Upon denial of a permit by the mayor, an applicant may appeal to the city
council by filing a written notice of the appeal within ten (10) days from the
mayor's decision. Upon such appeal, the city council may reverse, affirm, or
modify the mayor's determination. (Ord. 142, 10-18-2005)
4-8-11: PERMIT REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
The special event permit issued under this chapter is temporary and vests no
permanent rights in the applicant; it may be immediately revoked or suspended
by the mayor if:
   A.   The applicant has made a misstatement of material fact in the
information supplied;
   B.   The applicant has failed to fulfill a term or condition of the permit
in a timely manner;
   C.   The applicant requests the cancellation of the permit or cancels the
event;
   D.   The activity endangers or threatens persons or property, or otherwise
jeopardizes the health, safety or welfare of persons or property;
   E.   The activity conducted is in violation of any of the terms or
conditions of the special event permit;
   F.   An emergency or occurrence requires the cancellation or termination of
the special event in order to protect the public health or safety; or
   G.   The applicant fails to prepay expenses.
The city shall refund the permit fee in the event of revocation caused by an
emergency or unanticipated occurrence (not the fault of the applicant). All
other refunds shall be at the discretion of the city council. (Ord. 142, 10-18-
2005)
4-8-12: RULES AND POLICY:
To implement the special event permit, the mayor may develop and adopt rules,
policies and forms consistent with this chapter. All adopted rules, policies
and forms shall be filed with the city clerk. (Ord. 142, 10-18-2005)
TITLE 5
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
AIR QUALITY CODE
SECTION:
5-1-1: Adoption Of Regulations
5-1-1: ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Air Quality Code: Pursuant to RCW 35.21.180, 35A.11.020, 35A.21.160 and
19.27.031, the city adopts by reference the Spokane County air quality code, a
copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk and incorporated by
reference as if fully set forth herein.
   B.   Administrative Rules: Pursuant to the adopted air quality code, there
are hereby adopted by reference any and all implementing administrative rules
and enforcement remedies now in effect regarding the air quality code that have
been adopted either pursuant to Spokane County code 3.01.030(e) or elsewhere in
the Spokane County code except that, unless the context requires otherwise, any
reference to the "county" or to "Spokane County" shall refer to the city of
Liberty Lake, and any reference to county staff shall refer to the mayor or his
designee.
   C.   Other Laws: To the extent that any provision of the Spokane County
code, or any other law, rule or regulation referenced in the adopted air
quality code, is necessary or convenient to establish the validity,
enforceability or interpretation of the air quality code, then such provision
of the Spokane County code, or other law, rule or regulation is hereby adopted
by reference.
   D.   Hearing Bodies: When the adopted air quality code refers to planning
commissions, board of appeals, hearing examiner or any other similar body, the
city council shall serve in all such roles, but retains the right to establish
any one or more of such bodies, at any time and without regard to whether any
quasi-judicial or other matter is then pending.
   E.   Liability: The express intent of the city is that the responsibility
for compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall rest with the permit
applicant and their agents. This chapter and its provisions are adopted with
the express intent to protect the health, safety and welfare of the general
public and are not intended to protect any particular class of individuals or
organizations. (Ord. 57, 8-21-2001)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS AND VEGETATION CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Purpose
5-2-2: Duty Of Property Owner
5-2-3: Maximum Height; Removal
5-2-4: Abatement
5-2-5: Abatement By City; Lien
5-2-6: Penalty For Noncompliance
5-2-1: PURPOSE:
The city declares it is in the best interest of the citizens of the city of
Liberty Lake to: a) maintain an environment where trees, plants, shrubs and
vegetation do not obstruct or impair the free and full use of the sidewalk or
street and b) control grass, weeds, shrubs, bushes and other vegetation growing
on property so that a fire hazard or menace to the public health, safety or
welfare is not created. (Ord. 85A, 3-7-2017)
5-2-2: DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
It is declared to be the duty of a property owner where trees, plants, shrubs,
vegetation or parts thereof overhang any sidewalk, or street or obstruct the
public right of way by impairing the full use of the sidewalk or street
including an obstruction of the view corridor in the right of way, to remove
and abate the same by trimming, destroying or removing such growing or dead
vegetation.
A property owner has a further duty to remove or destroy all uncultivated grass
and weeds, including dead shrubs, bushes and trees which have no appreciable,
practical use or value to the property, create a fire hazard or pose a menace
to public health, safety or welfare, as required under section
5-2-3 of this chapter. For purposes of this chapter, the word "weeds" shall
refer to noxious weeds regulated pursuant to Revised Code Of Washington chapter
17.10. (Ord. 85A, 3-7-2017)
5-2-3: MAXIMUM HEIGHT; REMOVAL:
All weeds, grass or other uncultivated vegetation prohibited by this chapter
whether located on developed or undeveloped property shall be cut and removed
when any such weeds, grass or vegetation exceed six inches (6") in height
within thirty feet (30') from the back of a sidewalk, curb, or right of way
(public or private), as applicable. Native grasses outside the thirty foot
(30') line shall be maintained to be free of noxious weeds and it is encouraged
for the entire property to be cut and removed to reduce the fire hazard and
improve community aesthetics. (Ord. 85A, 3-7-2017)
5-2-4: ABATEMENT:
It is the duty of a property owner to immediately remove, destroy or eradicate
any condition on property prohibited by this chapter. Failure to timely and
properly abate as identified in this chapter shall constitute a nuisance with
the city authorized to abate the same. Prior to the city abating the condition
creating a nuisance, the city shall:
   A.   Serve a written notice either personally or by certified mail upon the
owner which states: 1) the description of the property involved and the
prohibited condition; 2) the date by which the prohibited condition is to be
corrected, which shall not be less than seven (7) days after receipt of the
notice; and 3) that the city council intends to adopt by resolution an order
authorizing the city to correct the prohibited condition, with all city costs
becoming a charge against the owner and a lien upon the property.
Property owners may contest before the city council the allegations set forth
in the notice on the date and time the resolution is placed on the council
agenda. (Ord. 85A, 3-7-2017)
5-2-5: ABATEMENT BY CITY; LIEN:
If the nuisance is not abated by the property owner within the time fixed in
the resolution and notice, the city shall abate the nuisance and deliver a
statement of the cost of such abatement to the property owner. If the property
owner fails or refuses to pay the city invoice or if the owner does not
respond, the city may cause a lien to be filed against the property and
enforced and foreclosed in the same manner as provided for the foreclosure of
labor and material liens. (Ord. 85A, 3-7-2017)
5-2-6: PENALTY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
In addition to the failure or refusal to comply with a request by the city to
abate the conditions identified under this chapter the city police department
may issue a class 1 civil infraction pursuant to Revised Code Of Washington
chapter 7.80. (Ord. 85A, 3-7-2017)
CHAPTER 3
VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION PROGRAM
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Registration Of Abandoned/Vacant Properties
5-3-4: Minimum Property Maintenance Requirements
5-3-5: City Monitoring Of Property
5-3-6: Waiver For City To Abate; Trespass Of Unauthorized Individuals
5-3-7: Local Property Manager/Agent
5-3-8: Annual Abandoned/Vacant Property Registration Fee
5-3-9: Policies And Procedures
5-3-10: Violation
5-3-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish a vacant or abandoned
property registration program in order to protect the community from becoming
blighted as a result of abandoned properties that are not properly secured and
maintained. This chapter requires the lender or other responsible parties of
properties that have been abandoned to register those properties with the city
as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 238, 3-21-2017)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms have the meanings indicated unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise:
ABANDONED PROPERTY: A property that is vacant and: a) is under a current notice
of default and/or notice of trustee's sale; b) is the subject of a pending tax
assessor's lien sale; c) has been the subject of a foreclosure sale where the
title was retained by the beneficiary of a deed of trust involved in the
foreclosure; d) has been transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale,
or e) is subject to a contract forfeiture. Property acquired by Spokane County
at a tax foreclosure sale under Revised Code Of Washington 84.64 is not to be
included within the definition of "abandoned property".
EVIDENCE OF VACANCY: Any condition that on its own or combined with other
conditions present would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant and not occupied by authorized persons. Such conditions include, but
are not limited to, overgrown and/or dead vegetation; accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, fliers and/or mail; past due utility notices and/or
disconnected utilities; accumulation of trash, junk, and/or debris; statements
by neighbors, passersby, delivery agents, or government employees that the
property is vacant; and for residential properties, the absence of window
coverings such as curtains, blinds, and/or shutters; the absence of furnishings
and/or personal items consistent with residential habitation.
LENDER: Any person who makes, extends, or holds a real estate loan agreement
and includes, but is not limited to, mortgagees; beneficiaries under deeds of
trust; underwriters under deeds of trust; vendors under conditional land sales
contracts; trustees and a successor in interest to any mortgagee, beneficiary,
vendor or trustee and any other lienholder on the property. The term also
includes any mortgagee, beneficiary or trustee that accepts a deed in lieu of
foreclosure.
OWNER: Any natural person, partnership, association, corporation or other
entity having legal title in real property including any borrower.
PROPERTY: Any unimproved or improved, residential or commercial real property,
or portion thereof, situated in the city of Liberty Lake, and includes the
buildings or structures located on the property regardless of condition.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any person, partnership, association, corporation, or
fiduciary having legal or equitable title to or any interest in any real
property, including, but not limited to, an "owner", borrower, and "lender" as
defined in this section. (Ord. 238, 3-21-2017)
5-3-3: REGISTRATION OF ABANDONED/VACANT PROPERTIES:
The lenders or other responsible parties of real property which has been
abandoned shall register that property with the city of Liberty Lake planning
and building services within thirty (30) days of the property becoming
abandoned or of receiving notice from the city of the requirements of this
chapter. The content of the registration shall include:
   A.   Proof of ownership, or financial interest, such as a lien or loan;
   B.   The name and contact information of the owner, lender or responsible
party or the agent of the respective entity;
   C.   The name and contact information for the local property manager
responsible for maintaining the property; and
   D.   Documentation which demonstrates the property is vacant, foreclosed,
pending foreclosure, or subject to foreclosure, trustee's sale, tax assessor's
lien sale or other legal proceedings.
The city shall also be notified of any changes to the registration information,
if the property is transferred and/or if the property becomes legally occupied,
within fourteen (14) days of such transfer and/or occupancy. (Ord. 238, 3-21-
2017)
5-3-4: MINIMUM PROPERTY MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
The lender or responsible party shall be required to:
   A.   Maintain and keep properties free of conditions including, but not
limited to:
      1.   Weeds, dry brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building
materials and junk vehicles;
      2.   Accumulation of newspapers, circulars, fliers, notices (except those
required by federal, state, or local law), and discarded personal items
including, but not limited to, furniture, clothing, or large and small
appliances; and
      3.   Graffiti, tagging, or similar markings by removal or painting over
with an exterior grade paint that matches and/or coordinates with the color of
the exterior of the structure;
   B.   Secure ponds, pools and hot tubs and ensure that they do not become a
public nuisance;
   C.   Secure the property to prevent access by unauthorized persons,
including, but not limited to, the following: the closure and locking of
windows, doors (walk-through, sliding and garage), gates, and any other opening
of such size that it may allow a child or any other person to access the
interior of the property and or structure(s). Securing also includes boarding
as applicable. Material used for boarding shall be painted with an exterior
grade paint that matches and/or coordinates with the color of the exterior of
the structure;
   D.   Take any other action necessary to prevent giving the appearance that
the property is abandoned;
   E.   Post the property with the name and twenty four (24) hour contact phone
number of the local property manager as follows:
THIS PROPERTY IS MANAGED BY [insert name], TO REPORT PROBLEMS OR CONCERNS,
PLEASE CALL [insert phone number]The posting shall be no less than eighteen
inches by twenty four inches (18" x 24") and shall be of a font that is legible
from a distance of at least forty five feet (45'). The posting shall be placed
on the interior of a window to the front of the property (facing the street) so
it is visible from the street, or secured to the exterior of the building/
structure to the front of the property (facing the street) so it is visible
from the street, or, if no such area exists, on a stake of sufficient size to
support the posting in a location that is visible from the street to the front
of the property but not readily accessible to vandals. Exterior posting must be
constructed of, and printed with, weather resistant materials;
   F.   Monitor property as necessary to prevent the creation of a nuisance;
and
   G.   Comply with other applicable portions of the city property maintenance
standards (city development code article 10-3I), the city weed and vegetation
control requirements (chapter 2 of this title), and the city building
regulations (title 9 of this code), as amended. (Ord. 238, 3-21-2017)
5-3-5: CITY MONITORING OF PROPERTY:
Upon registration, the city will provide regular monitoring of the property
including, but not limited to, periodic site visitation, which will not exceed
the city's rights of access as well as notification to lender or responsible
party if the property begins to exhibit characteristics established in Revised
Code Of Washington 35.80.010 or this chapter. The city's monitoring of the
property does not relieve the lender or other responsible party from monitoring
the property under section
5-3-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 238, 3-21-2017)
5-3-6: WAIVER FOR CITY TO ABATE; TRESPASS OF UNAUTHORIZED INDIVIDUALS:
As part of the property registration, the lender or responsible party may waive
any objection to the city to enter onto the property for purposes of abating a
condition that would constitute an unfit or substandard building as established
in Revised Code Of Washington 35.80.010 or this chapter. The cost of the
abatement shall be charged against the property pursuant to city development
code article 10-1D (enforcement), chapter 2, "Weeds And Vegetation Control", of
this title, title 9, "Building Regulations", and/or title 6, chapter 7,
"Chronic Nuisance Properties", of this code, as applicable or amended. The city
shall notify the owner, lender or responsible party at least seven (7) days
prior to the city taking abatement action in order to allow the owner, lender
or responsible party to abate the condition first unless such abatement
constitutes an emergency and must be abated immediately.The lender or
responsible party shall provide written authorization to the police department
to issue a trespass order against any unauthorized individual from the
property. (Ord. 238, 3-21-2017)
5-3-7: LOCAL PROPERTY MANAGER/AGENT:
The lender or responsible party shall provide the city with the name and
contact information of the local property manager or agent who has the
authority to act and respond to complaints regarding the property and to remedy
any substandard or unfit conditions found on the property. (Ord. 238, 3-21-
2017)
5-3-8: ANNUAL ABANDONED/VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION FEE:
The lender or responsible party shall pay an annual abandoned property
registration fee as may be established, and amended, by the city council. (Ord.
238, 3-21-2017)
5-3-9: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES:
The city may develop policies to implement the procedures set forth above,
which are consistent with and do not conflict with the provisions of this
chapter, this code, or the Revised Code Of Washington. (Ord. 238, 3-21-2017)
5-3-10: VIOLATION:
Any person, firm or entity who fails to register an abandoned property pursuant
to this chapter shall be subject to a class 1 civil infraction pursuant to
Revised Code Of Washington chapter 7.80. Each day shall constitute a separate
violation. Any owner, lender or responsible party who fails to maintain the
property shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to any and all
available remedies, including, but not limited to, those set forth in this
chapter and at law. (Ord. 238, 3-21-2017)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
CRIMINAL CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Preliminary Statement
6-1-2: Purposes; Principles Of Construction
6-1-3: City Criminal Jurisdiction
6-1-4: Classes Of Crimes
6-1-5: Punishment And Restitution
6-1-6: Limitation Of Action
6-1-7: Proof Beyond A Reasonable Doubt
6-1-8: General Provisions; Adoption By Reference
6-1-9: Principles Of Liability
6-1-10: Insanity And Defenses
6-1-11: Anticipatory Offenses
6-1-12: Abandoned Refrigeration Equipment
6-1-13: Advertising; Crimes Relating To
6-1-14: Aggressive Begging
6-1-15: Alcoholic Beverage Control
6-1-16: Alcoholic Beverage Control; Opening Or Consuming Liquor Or Possessing
Open Container Of Liquor In Public Place
6-1-17: Animals; Crimes Relating To
6-1-18: Assault And Other Crimes Relating To Persons
6-1-19: Brands And Marks, Crimes Relating To
6-1-20: Concealing Birth
6-1-21: Competitive Bidding
6-1-22: Controlled Substances; Drug Paraphernalia
6-1-23: Controlled Substances
6-1-24: Corporations
6-1-25: Criminal Mistreatment
6-1-26: Custodial Interference
6-1-27: Discharge Of Firearms Prohibited
6-1-28: Disorderly Conduct
6-1-29: Domestic Violence
6-1-30: False Representations
6-1-31: False Swearing And Tampering
6-1-32: Fire Alarms; Crimes Relating To
6-1-33: Firearms
6-1-34: Flags
6-1-35: Fraud
6-1-36: Gambling Offenses
6-1-37: Harassment
6-1-38: Identity Crimes
6-1-39: Inhaling Toxic Fumes
6-1-40: Interference With Healthcare Facilities Or Providers
6-1-41: Lasers
6-1-42: Libel And Slander
6-1-43: Littering And Pollution
6-1-44: Miscellaneous Crimes
6-1-45: Misconduct In Signing A Petition
6-1-46: Obstructing Governmental Operation
6-1-47: Official Misconduct
6-1-48: Prostitution
6-1-49: Public Disturbance
6-1-50: Public Nuisances
6-1-51: Reckless Burning And Malicious Mischief
6-1-52: Sexual Offenses
6-1-53: Sexual Offenses Relative To Minors
6-1-54: Telephone Credit Cards
6-1-55: Theft And Possession Of Stolen Property
6-1-56: Trespass And Prowling
6-1-57: Urinating In Public
6-1-58: Vehicles Resembling Police Or Fire Vehicles
6-1-59: Violating Right Of Privacy
6-1-60: Regulation Of Activities; State Penal Laws
6-1-61: Minor In Consumption Of Marijuana Or Marijuana Infused Products
Prohibited
6-1-1: PRELIMINARY STATEMENT:
   A.   This chapter shall be known, and shall be cited, as the LIBERTY LAKE
CRIMINAL CODE referred to herein as the "LLCC" or "chapter".
   B.   The sections of the Revised Code Of Washington now in effect or as
subsequently amended by the Washington legislature, specifically enumerated in
this chapter, are adopted by reference in this chapter.
   C.   In issuing a citation to any person or persons for violation of the
provisions of the LLCC, law enforcement officers may cite to either the
specific LLCC provision or the specific Revised Code Of Washington provision
from which it is adopted by reference. (Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-2: PURPOSES; PRINCIPLES OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   The general purposes of the provisions governing the definition of
offenses are:1. To forbid and prevent conduct that inflicts or threatens
substantial harm to individual or public interests;2. To safeguard conduct that
is without culpability from condemnation as criminal;3. To give fair warning of
the nature of the conduct declared to constitute an offense; and4. To
differentiate on reasonable grounds between serious and minor offenses, and to
prescribe proportionate penalties for each.
   B.   The provisions of the LLCC shall be construed according to the fair
import of their terms, and when the language is susceptible of differing
constructions, it shall be interpreted to further the general purposes stated
herein.
   C.   In adopting the Washington state statutes by reference, only those
crimes and offenses within the jurisdiction of a municipality are intended to
be adopted and, in those sections adopted which define both misdemeanors and
felonies, only the language applicable to misdemeanors and gross misdemeanors
is to be applied.
   D.   Jurisdiction to prosecute any felonious activity remains with the state
of Washington, county of Spokane. (Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-3: CITY CRIMINAL JURISDICTION:
Any person who commits any offense defined by this chapter, in whole or in
part, within the corporate limits of the city of Liberty Lake, is liable to
arrest, prosecution and punishment. (Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-4: CLASSES OF CRIMES:
An offense defined by this chapter, for which a sentence of imprisonment is
authorized, constitutes a violation of this chapter and is a crime. Crimes are
classified as gross misdemeanors or misdemeanors. (Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-5: PUNISHMENT AND RESTITUTION:
   A.   Unless specifically provided otherwise, every person convicted of a
gross misdemeanor, or a crime not otherwise classified, shall be punished by
imprisonment in jail for a maximum term of not more than one year, or by a fine
in an amount of not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), or by both
such imprisonment and fine.
   B.   Unless specifically provided otherwise, every person convicted of a
misdemeanor shall be punished by imprisonment in jail for a maximum term of not
more than ninety (90) days, or by a fine in an amount of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both such imprisonment and fine.
   C.   Unless the court finds that the imposition of the minimum imprisonment
will pose a substantial risk to the defendant's physical or mental well being,
or that local jail facilities are in an overcrowded condition, the term of
imprisonment shall not be suspended or deferred. If a minimum term of
imprisonment is suspended or deferred, the court shall state in writing the
reason for granting the suspension or deferral and the facts upon which the
suspension or deferral is based. Unless the court finds the person to be
indigent, the minimum fine shall not be suspended or deferred.
   D.   The city council reserves the right to implement a community service
program to provide an alternative to fines and/or imprisonment in jail.
   E.   A court may impose restitution as provided in Revised Code of
Washington 9A.20.030.
   F.   In the event there is a conflict in the penalties that can be imposed
upon conviction for a specific offense between the provisions of this chapter
and the Revised Code of Washington, the penalty provisions of this chapter
shall apply unless preempted by Washington state law. (Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-6: LIMITATION OF ACTION:
   A.   The prosecution of a gross misdemeanor, or a crime not otherwise
classified, may not begin more than two (2) years after its commission. The
prosecution of a misdemeanor may not begin more than one year after its
commission.
   B.   Periods of limitation toll for any period of time the person charged is
not usually and publicly resident within the state of Washington.
   C.   If a complaint or an information filed before the end of a period of
limitation is thereafter set aside, then the period is extended by a period
equal to the length of time from the filing to the setting aside. (Ord. 140,
10-4-2005)
6-1-7: PROOF BEYOND A REASONABLE DOUBT:
   A.   Every person charged with an offense is presumed innocent unless proven
guilty by competent evidence establishing each element of the offense beyond a
reasonable doubt.
   B.   When an offense has been proven against a person, but a reasonable
doubt exists as to the degree of the crime, a conviction shall be entered only
as to the lowest degree. (Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-8: GENERAL PROVISIONS; ADOPTION BY REFERENCE:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
9A.04.050 People capable of committing crimes; capability of children
9A.04.060 Common law to supplement statute
9A.04.070 Who amenable to criminal statutes
9A.04.090 Application of general provisions of the code
9A.04.110 Definitions
9.01.055  Citizen immunity if aiding officer, scope; when
9.01.110  Omission, when not punishable
9.01.130  Sending letter, when complete
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-9: PRINCIPLES OF LIABILITY:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9A.08.010 General requirements of culpability
9A.08.020 Liability for conduct of another; complicity
9A.08.030 Corporate and personal liability
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-10: INSANITY AND DEFENSES:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
9A.12.010 Insanity
9A.16.010 Definitions
9A.16.020 Use of force; when lawful
9A.16.040 Justifiable homicide or use of deadly force by public officer, peace
          officer, person aiding
9A.16.060 Duress
9A.16.070 Entrapment
9A.16.080 Action for being detained on mercantile establishment premises for
          investigation; "reasonable grounds" as defense
9A.16.090 Intoxication
9A.16.100 Use of force on children; policy; actions presumed unreasonable
9A.16.110 Defending against violent crime; reimbursement
9A.16.120 Outdoor music festival, campground; detention
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-11: ANTICIPATORY OFFENSES:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9A.28.020 Criminal attempt
9A.28.030 Criminal solicitation
9A.28.040 Criminal conspiracy
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-12: ABANDONED REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.03.010 Abandoning, discarding refrigeration equipment
9.03.020 Permitting unused equipment to remain on premises
9.03.040 Keeping or storing equipment for sale
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-13: ADVERTISING; CRIMES RELATING TO:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.04.010 False advertising
9.04.030 False, misleading, deceptive advertising; penalty
9.04.050 False, misleading, deceptive advertising
9.04.080 False, misleading, deceptive advertising; assurance of discontinuance
         of unlawful practice
9.04.090 Advertising fuel prices by service stations
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-14: AGGRESSIVE BEGGING:
   A.   Any person who engages in "aggressive begging" in any public place in
the city of Liberty Lake as those terms are defined by this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   B.   As used in this section:
    AGGRESSIVE BEGGING: To beg with intent to intimidate another person into
giving money or goods.
   BEGGING: To ask for money or goods as a charity, whether by words, bodily
gestures, signs or other means.
   INTIMIDATE: To coerce or frighten into submission or obedience.
   PUBLIC PLACES: Any road, alley, lane, parking area, sidewalk or any place,
private or otherwise, adopted to and fitted for vehicular or pedestrian travel
that is in common use by the public with the consent, expressed or implied, of
the owner or owners; and any public playground, school ground, recreation
ground, park, parkway, park drive, park path and right of way open to the use
of the public. (Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-15: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
66.04.010     Definitions
66.20.160     "Card of identification", "licensee", "store employee" defined
              for certain purposes
66.20.170     Card of identification may be accepted as identification card and
              evidence of legal age
66.20.180     Card of identification to be presented on request of licensee
66.20.200     Unlawful acts relating to identification or certification card;
              penalties
66.28.090     Licensed premises or banquet permit premises open to inspection;
              failure to allow, violation
Chapter 66.32 Search and seizure (entire chapter)
Chapter 66.44 Enforcement; penalties (entire chapter)
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-16: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL; OPENING OR CONSUMING LIQUOR OR POSSESSING
OPEN CONTAINER OF LIQUOR IN PUBLIC PLACE:
Pursuant to Revised Code of Washington 66.44.100, any person who opens a
container of liquor or consumes liquor in a public place is guilty of a class 3
civil infraction under Revised Code of Washington chapter 7.80. This section
shall not apply to containers kept in the trunk of a vehicle or in an area of
the vehicle not normally occupied by the driver or passengers. A utility
compartment or glove compartment is deemed to be within the area occupied by
the driver and any passenger. (Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-17: ANIMALS; CRIMES RELATING TO:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
9.08.030         False certificate of registration of animals; false
                 representation as to breed
9.08.065         Definitions
9.08.070         Pet animals; taking, concealing, injuring, killing, etc.;
                 penalty
9.08.072(1), (2) Transferring stolen pet animal to a research institution;
                 penalty
16.52.080        Transporting or confining an animal in an unsafe manner;
                 penalty
16.52.165        Punishment; conviction of misdemeanor
16.52.190        Poisoning animals; penalty
16.52.207        Animal cruelty in the second degree
16.52.225        Nonambulatory livestock; transporting or accepting delivery;
                 gross misdemeanor; definition
16.52.305        Unlawful use of hook; gross misdemeanor
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-18: ASSAULT AND OTHER CRIMES RELATING TO PERSONS:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9A.36.041 Assault in the fourth degree
9A.36.050 Reckless endangerment
9A.36.070 Coercion
9A.36.150 Interfering with the reporting of domestic violence
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-19: BRANDS AND MARKS, CRIMES RELATING TO:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereafter amended are adopted by reference:
9.16.005 Definitions
9.16.020 Imitating lawful brand
9.16.080 Petroleum products improperly labeled or graded; penalty
9.16.100 Use of the words "sterling silver", etc.
9.16.110 Use of the words "coin silver", etc.
9.16.120 Use of the word "sterling" on mounting
9.16.130 Use of the words "coin silver" on mounting
9.16.140 Unlawfully marking article made of gold
9.16.150 "Marked, stamped or branded" defined
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-20: CONCEALING BIRTH:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.02.050 Concealing birth
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-21: COMPETITIVE BIDDING:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.18.120 Suppression of competitive bidding
9.18.130 Collusion to prevent competitive bidding; penalty
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-22: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
69.50.102  Drug paraphernalia; definitions
69.50.412  Prohibited acts: E; penalties
69.50.4121 Drug paraphernalia; selling or giving; penalty
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-23: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
69.50.101 Definitions
69.50.204  
(c)(14)   Schedule I; marijuana
69.50.309 Containers
69.50.401  
(e)       Prohibited acts: A; penalties
69.50.425 Misdemeanor violations; minimum penalties
69.50.505 Seizure and forfeiture
69.50.506 Burden of proof; liabilities
69.50.509 Search and seizure of controlled substances
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-24: CORPORATIONS:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.24.010 Fraud in stock subscription
9.24.040 Corporation doing business without license
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-25: CRIMINAL MISTREATMENT:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9A.42.010 Definitions
9A.42.037 Criminal mistreatment in the fourth degree
9A.42.039 Arresting officer, notification by
9A.42.080 Abandonment of a dependent person in the third degree; exception
9A.42.090 Abandonment of a dependent person; defense
9A.42.110 Leaving a child in the care of a sex offender
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-26: CUSTODIAL INTERFERENCE:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9A.40.010 Definitions
9A.40.070 Custodial interference in the second degree (first offense)
9A.40.080 Custodial interference; assessment of costs; defense; consent
          defense, restricted
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-27: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Any person who knowingly discharges a firearm within the city of
Liberty Lake is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   "Firearm" means a weapon or device from which a projectile or
projectiles may be fired by an explosive, including, but not limited to,
gunpowder.
   C.   The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      1.   A person engaged in military activities sponsored by the federal or
state governments, while engaged in official duties;
      2.   Law enforcement personnel;
      3.   Security personnel while engaged in official duties; and
      4.   A person utilizing a properly licensed institutional, membership
and/or commercial shooting range;
      5.   Discharge of a firearm in lawful self-defense. (Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-28: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
Any person who engages in disorderly conduct is guilty of a misdemeanor. A
person engages in disorderly conduct when that person:
   A.   Uses abusive language and thereby intentionally creates a risk of
assault;
   B.   Intentionally disrupts any lawful assembly or meeting of persons
without authority;
   C.   Intentionally obstructs vehicular or pedestrian traffic without lawful
authority;
   D.   Fights by agreement, except as part of an organized athletic event; or
   E.   Enters or remains in any school building, classroom or upon any school
ground, or street, sidewalk or public way adjacent thereto, and intentionally
causes disruption of the activities of the school.
   F.   As used in this section, "school" has its ordinary meaning and also
includes universities, colleges, community colleges and institutions of higher
learning. (Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-29: DOMESTIC VIOLENCE:
The following provision of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
26.50.010 Definitions
26.50.110 Violation of order; penalties
26.50.115 Enforcement of ex parte order; knowledge of order prerequisite to
          penalties; reasonable efforts to serve copy of order
26.50.120 Violation of order; prosecuting attorney or attorney for municipality
          may be requested to assist; costs and attorney fee
26.50.130 Order; modification; transmittal
26.50.140 Peace officers; immunity
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-30: FALSE REPRESENTATIONS:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.38.010 False representation concerning credit
9.38.015 False statement by deposit account applicant
9.38.020 False representation concerning title
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-31: FALSE SWEARING AND TAMPERING:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
9A.72.010 Definitions
9A.72.040 False swearing
9A.72.050 Perjury and false swearing; inconsistent statements; degree of crime
9A.72.060 Perjury and false swearing; retraction
9A.72.070 Perjury and false swearing; irregularities no defense
9A.72.080 Statement of what one does not know to be true
9A.72.140 Jury tampering
9A.72.150 Tampering with physical evidence
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-32: FIRE ALARMS; CRIMES RELATING TO:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.40.040 Operating engine or boiler without spark arrester
9.40.100 Tampering with fire alarm or firefighting equipment; false alarms;
         penalties
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-33: FIREARMS:
All provisions of the Revised Code of Washington, chapter 9.41, as presently
enacted or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference. (Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-34: FLAGS:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.86.010 "Flag", etc., defined
9.86.020 Improper use of flag prohibited
9.86.030 Desecration of flag
9.86.040 Application of provisions
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-35: FRAUD:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
9.45.060  Encumbered, leased, or rented personal property; construction
9.45.070  Mock auctions
9.45.080  Fraudulent removal of property
9.45.090  Knowingly receiving fraudulent conveyance
9.45.100  Fraud in assignment for benefit of creditors
9A.60.010 Definitions
9A.60.045 Criminal impersonation in the second degree
9A.60.050 False certification
9A.61.010 Definitions
9A.61.020 Defrauding a public utility
9A.61.050 Defrauding a public utility in the third degree
9A.61.060 Restitution and costs
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-36: GAMBLING OFFENSES:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
9.46.190  Violations relating to fraud or deceit
9.46.193  Cities and towns; ordinance adopting certain sections of chapter;
          jurisdiction of courts
9.46.195  Obstruction of public servant; penalty
9.46.196  Cheating; defined
9.46.1962 Cheating in the second degree
9.46.198  Working in gambling activity without license as violation; penalty
9.46.210  Enforcement; commission as a law enforcement agency
9.46.217  Gambling records; penalty; exceptions
9.46.222  Professional gambling in the third degree
9.46.240  Gambling information, transmitting or receiving
9.46.260  Proof of possession as evidence of knowledge of its character
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-37: HARASSMENT:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
9A.46.010 Legislative declaration
9A.46.020 Definition; penalties
9A.46.030 Place where committed
9A.46.040 Court ordered requirements upon person charged with crime; violation
9A.46.050 Arraignment; no contact order
9A.46.060 Crimes included in harassment
9A.46.070 Enforcement of orders restricting contact
9A.46.080 Order restricting contact; violation
9A.46.090 Nonliability of peace officer
9A.46.100 "Convicted", time when
9A.46.110 Stalking
9.61.230  Telephone harassment
9.61.240  Telephone harassment; permitting telephone to be used
9.61.250  Telephone harassment; offense, where deemed committed
9.61.260  Cyberstalking
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-38: IDENTITY CRIMES:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.35.005 Definitions
9.35.030 Soliciting undesired mail
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-39: INHALING TOXIC FUMES:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.47A.010 Definition
9.47A.020 Unlawful inhalation; exception
9.47A.030 Possession of certain substances prohibited, when
9.47A.040 Sale of certain substances prohibited, when
9.47A.050 Penalty
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-40: INTERFERENCE WITH HEALTHCARE FACILITIES OR PROVIDERS:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9A.50.005 Finding
9A.50.010 Definitions
9A.50.020 Interference with healthcare facility
9A.50.030 Penalty
9A.50.060 Informational picketing
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-41: LASERS:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9A.49.001 Findings
9A.49.010 Definitions
9A.49.030 Unlawful discharge of a laser in the second degree
9A.49.040 Civil infraction, when
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-42: LIBEL AND SLANDER:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.58.010 Libel, what constitutes
9.58.020 How justified or excused; malice, when presumed
9.58.030 Publication defined
9.58.040 Liability of editors and others
9.58.080 Furnishing libelous information
9.58.090 Threatening to publish libel
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-43: LITTERING AND POLLUTION:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
70.93.030 Definitions
70.93.060 Littering prohibited; penalties; litter cleanup restitution payment
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-44: MISCELLANEOUS CRIMES:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
9.91.010 Denial of civil rights; terms defined
9.91.025 Unlawful bus conduct
9.91.060 Leaving children unattended in parked automobile
9.91.110 Metal buyers; records of purchases; penalty
9.91.130 Disposal of trash in charity donation receptacle
9.91.140 Food stamps; unlawful sale
9.91.142 Food stamps; trafficking
9.91.160 Personal protection spray devices
9.91.170 Interfering with dog guide or service animal
9.91.180 Violent video or computer games
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-45: MISCONDUCT IN SIGNING A PETITION:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.44.080 Misconduct in signing a petition
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-46: OBSTRUCTING GOVERNMENTAL OPERATION:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
9A.76.010 Definitions
9A.76.020 Obstructing a law enforcement officer
9A.76.030 Refusing to summon aid for a peace officer
9A.76.040 Resisting arrest
9A.76.050 Rendering criminal assistance; definition of term
9A.76.060 Relative defined
9A.76.070 Rendering criminal assistance in the first degree
9A.76.080 Rendering criminal assistance in the second degree
9A.76.090 Rendering criminal assistance in the third degree
9A.76.100 Compounding
9A.76.130 Escape in the third degree
9A.76.160 Introducing contraband in the third degree
9A.76.170 Bail jumping
9A.76.175 Making a false or misleading statement to a public servant
9.62.010  Malicious prosecution
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-47: OFFICIAL MISCONDUCT:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9A.80.010 Official misconduct
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-48: PROSTITUTION:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9A.88.010 Indecent exposure (first offense)
9A.88.030 Prostitution
9A.88.050 Prostitution; sex of parties immaterial; no defense
9A.88.060 Promoting prostitution; definitions
9A.88.090 Permitting prostitution
9A.88.110 Patronizing a prostitute
9A.88.120 Additional fee assessments
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-49: PUBLIC DISTURBANCE:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9A.84.010 Riot
9A.84.020 Failure to disperse
9A.84.040 False reporting
9.27.015  Interference, obstruction of any court, building, or residence;
          violations
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-50: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.66.010 Public nuisance
9.66.020 Unequal damage
9.66.030 Maintaining or permitting nuisance
9.66.040 Abatement of nuisance
9.66.050 Deposit of unwholesome substance
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-51: RECKLESS BURNING AND MALICIOUS MISCHIEF:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9A.48.010 Definitions
9A.48.050 Reckless burning in the second degree
9A.48.060 Reckless burning; defense
9A.48.090 Malicious mischief in the third degree
9A.48.100 Malicious mischief; "physical damage" defined
9A.48.110 Defacing a state monument
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-52: SEXUAL OFFENSES:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9A.44.010 Definitions
9A.44.030 Defenses to prosecution under this chapter
9A.44.096 Sexual misconduct with a minor in the second degree
9A.44.170 Custodial sexual misconduct in the second degree
9A.44.180 Custodial sexual misconduct; defense
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-53: SEXUAL OFFENSES RELATIVE TO MINORS:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.68A.011 Definitions
9.68A.080 Reporting of depictions of minor engaged in sexually explicit
          conduct; civil immunity
9.68A.090 Communication with minor for immoral purposes
9.68A.150 Allowing minor on premises of live erotic performance; definitions;
          penalty
9.68A.160 Penalty
9.69.100  Duty of witness of offense against child or any violent offense;
          penalty
26.28.080 Selling or giving tobacco to minor; belief of representative
          capacity, no defense; penalty
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-54: TELEPHONE CREDIT CARDS:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.26A.090 Telephone company credit cards; prohibited acts
9.26A.100 Definitions
9.26A.110 Fraud in obtaining telecommunications service; penalty
9.26A.120 Fraud in operating coin box telephone or other receptacle
9.26A.130 Penalty for manufacture or sale of slugs to be used for coin
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-55: THEFT AND POSSESSION OF STOLEN PROPERTY:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
9A.56.010 Definitions
9A.56.020 Theft; definition, defense
9A.56.050 Theft in the third degree
9A.56.060 Unlawful issuance of checks or drafts
9A.56.096 Theft of rental, leased or lease-purchased property
9A.56.100 Theft and larceny equated
9A.56.140 Possessing stolen property; definition; presumption
9A.56.170 Possessing stolen property in the third degree
9A.56.180 Obscuring the identity of a machine
9A.56.220 Theft of subscription television services
9A.56.260 Connection of channel converter
9A.56.330 Possession of another's identification
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-56: TRESPASS AND PROWLING:
The following provisions of the Revised Code of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
9A.52.010 Definitions
9A.52.060 Making or having burglar tools
9A.52.070 Criminal trespass in the first degree
9A.52.080 Criminal trespass in the second degree
9A.52.090 Criminal trespass; defenses
9A.52.100 Vehicle prowling in the second degree
9A.52.120 Computer trespass in the second degree
9A.52.130 Computer trespass; commission of other crime
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-57: URINATING IN PUBLIC:
Any person who intentionally urinates or defecates in a public place, other
than a washroom or toilet room, or at a place and under circumstances where
such act could be observed by any member of the public, shall be guilty of a
civil infraction, with the fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
a first offense. For a second and subsequent offenses, the person shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-58: VEHICLES RESEMBLING POLICE OR FIRE VEHICLES:
Any person who operates a motor vehicle painted and exhibiting decals, numbers,
name or insignia that simulate a city or county law enforcement or fire
department vehicle, or official city vehicle, without prior written
authorization from the police chief, city council, Spokane County sheriff's
department, or their designees, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 140, 10-4-
2005)
6-1-59: VIOLATING RIGHT OF PRIVACY:
The following provisions of the Revised Code Of Washington as presently enacted
or hereinafter amended are adopted by reference:
 
9.73.020 Opening sealed letter
9.73.030 Intercepting, recording, or divulging private communication; consent
         required; exceptions
9.73.080 Penalties
 
(Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-60: REGULATION OF ACTIVITIES; STATE PENAL LAWS:
The city of Liberty Lake shall observe and enforce the provisions of Washington
state law as enacted and amended by the Washington state legislature with all
state law regulating local conduct, location and limitation on activities, to
the extent not identified above or subsequently enacted by the state
legislature, which is deemed incorporated by reference as if fully set forth
herein. (Ord. 140, 10-4-2005)
6-1-61: MINOR IN CONSUMPTION OF MARIJUANA OR MARIJUANA INFUSED PRODUCTS
PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) ("minor") shall possess,
consume, or otherwise acquire marijuana or marijuana infused products. For
purposes of this subsection, marijuana or marijuana infused products include,
but are not limited to, any cannabis infused product, food, or drink. It shall
also include any hashish, hashish oil, or any other byproduct with the active
ingredient of THC.
      2.   No minor shall be in a public place, or be in a motor vehicle in a
public place, while exhibiting the effects of having consumed marijuana or
marijuana infused products. For purposes of this subsection, "exhibiting the
effects" of having consumed marijuana or marijuana infused products means that
a person has the odor of marijuana on his or her breath and either: a) is in
possession of or close proximity to marijuana or marijuana infused products, or
b) by speech, manner, appearance, behavior, lack of coordination, or otherwise,
exhibits that he or she has consumed marijuana or marijuana infused products.
      3.   This section shall not apply to marijuana given for medical purposes
to a minor by a parent, guardian, physician, or dentist.
   B.   Enforcement And Penalties:
      1.   This section shall be enforced by the Liberty Lake police department
or its designee(s) who shall be the "enforcement officer" as that term is used
in chapter 7.80 Revised Code Of Washington.
      2.   Violation of any provision of this section by a minor is a class 3
civil infraction and subject to a monetary penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   State And Federal Law: This section shall be harmonized to avoid any
conflict with any other federal or state preempting laws or regulations.
This section shall be null and void on the day that state or federal
legislation goes into effect incorporating either the same or substantially
similar provisions as are contained in this section, or in the event that a
pertinent state or federal administrative agency issues and promulgates
regulations preempting such action by the city of Liberty Lake. The city of
Liberty Lake legislative body may determine via resolution whether or not
identical or substantially similar statewide legislation has been enacted for
the purpose of triggering the provisions of this section. (Ord. 214, 10-7-2014)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-2-1: Animal Control Regulations Adopted
6-2-2: Copy To Be Available
6-2-3: Offenses Related To Sanitation
6-2-4: Penalty
6-2-1: ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Pursuant to Revised Code Of Washington 35.21.180, 35A.21.160 and 35A.21.140,
the city adopts by reference chapter 5.04 entitled "cats and dogs" and chapter
5.12 entitled "inherently dangerous mammals/reptiles" of the Spokane County
code as now in effect and as subsequently amended as the animal control
regulations for the city, except any reference to Spokane County shall be
construed to refer to the city of Liberty Lake. (Ord. 174, 2-3-2009, eff. 2-17-
2009)
6-2-2: COPY TO BE AVAILABLE:
One copy of chapters 5.04 and 5.12 of the Spokane County code shall be
available in the office of the city clerk for use, inspection and copying by
the public. (Ord. 174, 2-3-2009, eff. 2-17-2009)
6-2-3: OFFENSES RELATED TO SANITATION:
There is hereby added to chapter 5.04 the following:
An owner or a person in control of a dog or cat shall remove the fecal matter
deposited by the dog or cat on developed public or private property before the
owner leaves the immediate area where the fecal matter was deposited. The term
"developed property" shall mean property areas that have been landscaped, paved
(for street, trail or sidewalk purposes), made into lawns, swales, and play,
recreation or sports areas. An owner of a duly licensed guide dog shall be
exempt from this section. (Ord. 174, 2-3-2009, eff. 2-17-2009)
6-2-4: PENALTY:
The penalty for a violation of section
6-2-3 of this chapter shall be an infraction as set forth in the Spokane County
code section 5.04.071. (Ord. 174, 2-3-2009, eff. 2-17-2009)
CHAPTER 3
JUNK VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purpose And Intent
6-3-2: Outside Storage Restricted
6-3-3: Nuisance Abatement
6-3-4: Violation; Penalty
6-3-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The city recognizes the benefit and enjoyment individuals receive from the
repair and rehabilitation of old vehicles. It is, however, the purpose and
intent of this chapter to provide for the removal of junk vehicles that create
an attractive nuisance and negative aesthetic impact upon property and the
community. (Ord. 109, 1-4-2003)
6-3-2: OUTSIDE STORAGE RESTRICTED:
Except as otherwise permitted by city ordinance, no junk vehicles, as such term
is defined in RCW 46.55.010, shall be stored on any property within the city
for a period exceeding thirty (30) days, unless the same is stored on private
property within an enclosed structure or is covered by a vehicle cover intended
for such purpose. A junk vehicle does not include a motor vehicle which is in
the process of being repaired as evidenced by the good faith efforts of the
vehicle owner. Evidence relating to the good faith repair of a vehicle can be
established by producing invoices showing work or parts purchased for repair or
renovation of the vehicle, a declaration under penalty of perjury that the
vehicle is in the process of being repaired and has been worked on during the
past thirty (30) days or by providing such other reasonable information and
evidence to comply with the intent of this chapter. It shall be a defense to
abatement to move the junk vehicle into an enclosed structure (a building which
has 3 sides, a door and a roof lawfully constructed on the property or to
maintain a vehicle cover as set forth above). The owner of the real property
where the vehicle is stored shall be responsible for a violation of this
section.
A violation of this section shall be considered a public nuisance by storage of
a junk vehicle. The nuisance may be abated with the cost of abatement assessed
against the property owner and the registered owner of the vehicle, if the
identity of the owner can be determined, unless the owner when transferring
ownership of the vehicle has complied with RCW 46.12.101. (Ord. 109, 1-4-2003)
6-3-3: NUISANCE ABATEMENT:
   A.   Junk Vehicle Abatement:
      1.   Upon a determination by the city that a vehicle constitutes a public
nuisance or junk vehicle pursuant to section
6-3-2 of this chapter, the city shall issue a notice to the last registered
vehicle owner of record and the property owner of record that a violation of
city ordinance has occurred and an abatement will be commenced. The notice
shall provide that a hearing may be requested but if no such hearing is
requested, the vehicle will be promptly removed.
      2.   The property and vehicle owner shall be given fourteen (14) days
from the date the notice is mailed to request a hearing. Upon receipt of such a
request, the city shall provide a notice stating the time, location and date of
the hearing on the question of abatement and removal of the vehicle, or part
thereof, as a public nuisance. The city shall mail this notice, by certified
mail, with five (5) day return receipt requested, to the owner of land as shown
on the last equalized assessment role and to the last registered and legal
vehicle owner of record unless the vehicle is in such a condition that
identification numbers are not visible.
      3.   The notice shall contain a statement that the owner of land on which
the vehicle is located may appear in person at a hearing conducted by the chief
of police or present a written statement for consideration. The owner may deny
responsibility for the presence of the vehicle and state the reasons for such
denial. If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was placed on the
property without consent of the property owner, and that there has been no
acquiescence by the property owner, then the city shall not assess costs of
administration or nuisance abatement against the property where the vehicle was
located.
      4.   Following notice by the city and a hearing, the vehicle shall be
removed under the order of the chief of police with notice provided to the
Washington state patrol and the department of licensing that the vehicle has
been wrecked. Upon removal, the city may dispose of the vehicle or parts as
scrap upon terms which are reasonable and just.
   B.   Cost Of Abatement: The city's reasonable cost for abatement, except as
described above, shall become a charge against the vehicle owner and property
owner and shall be recovered by the city. (Ord. 109, 1-4-2003)
6-3-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Upon a finding that a violation of this chapter has occurred, the city may
recover the costs to remove the vehicle and the person in charge of such
vehicle shall be fined as provided in subsection 1-4-1B of this code per day
following notice of the violation. (Ord. 109, 1-4-2003; amd. 2004 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Liberal Construction
6-4-4: Permit Requirements
6-4-5: Sale And Use Of Consumer Fireworks
6-4-6: Seizure Of Fireworks
6-4-7: Violation; Penalty
6-4-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to:
      1.   Establish a permitting process regulating, within the city, the
manufacturing, importing, possessing or selling any fireworks at wholesale;
making a public display of fireworks; transporting fireworks (except as a
public carrier delivering to a licensee); establishing or maintaining a place
where fireworks are manufactured, constructed, produced, packaged, stored,
sold, exchanged, discharged or used; and
      2.   Prohibit the sale or discharge, within the city, of any consumer
fireworks.
   B.   Pursuant to the provisions of RCW 70.77.395:
      1.   It is legal to sell and purchase consumer fireworks within this
state during the following days and hours:
 
June 28                         12:00 noon to 11:00 P.M.
June 29 through July 4          9:00 A.M. to 11:00 P.M.
July 5                          9:00 A.M. to 9:00 P.M.
December 27 through December 31 12:00 noon to 11:00 P.M. and as provided in RCW
                                70.77.311; and
 
      2.   Consumer fireworks may be used or discharged each day between the
following days and hours:
 
June 28                  12:00 noon to 11:00 P.M.
June 29 through July 3   9:00 A.M. to 11:00 P.M.
July 4                   9:00 A.M. to 12:00 midnight
July 5                   9:00 A.M. to 11:00 P.M.
December 31 to January 1 6:00 P.M. to 1:00 A.M. on January 1 of the subsequent
                         year and as provided in RCW 70.77.311.
 
   C.   In the case of Brown v. Yakima, 116 Wn.2d 556, 807 P.2d 353 (1991), the
Washington state supreme court held that the Washington state legislature did
not intend to preempt the entire field of fireworks regulations by enacting RCW
chapter 70.77. The court further held that an ordinance adopted by the city of
Yakima further restricting the dates and times as set forth in RCW 70.77.395
during which common fireworks (now identified as consumer fireworks under SSSB
6080, laws of 2002) may be sold or discharged within its jurisdiction was
constitutional and did not violate article XI subsection 11 of the Washington
state constitution.
   D.   The city now desires to exercise its rights as provided in article XI
subsection 11 of the Washington state constitution, RCW 35A.11.020 and RCW
70.77.250(4) to: 1) regulate, within the city, the manufacturing, importing,
possessing or selling any fireworks at wholesale; making a public display of
fireworks; transporting fireworks (except as a public carrier delivering to a
licensee); establishing or maintaining a place where fireworks are
manufactured, constructed, produced, packaged, stored, sold, exchanged,
discharged or used; and 2) prohibit the sale or discharge within the city of
any consumer fireworks. In exercising this right, the city would be prohibiting
the sale or discharge of consumer fireworks, as presently authorized in RCW
70.77.395, and as amended pursuant to SSSB 6080, laws of 2002. (Ord. 95, 8-6-
2002)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions set forth in this section shall govern the construction of this
chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
APPLICANT: Any person who makes application for a permit under the terms of
this chapter.
ARTICLES PYROTECHNIC: Pyrotechnic devices for professional use similar to
consumer fireworks in chemical composition and construction but not intended
for consumer use which meet the weight limits for consumer fireworks but which
are not labeled as such and which are classified as UN0431 or UN0432 by the
United States department of transportation at 49 CFR 172.101 as of the
effective date of this section.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS (Formerly Referred To As Common Fireworks): Any small
firework device designed to produce visible effects by combustion and which
must comply with the construction, chemical composition and labeling
regulations of the United States consumer product safety commission, as set
forth in 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507 and including some small devices designed
to produce audible effects, such as whistling devices, ground devices
containing fifty milligrams (50 mg) or less of explosive materials, and aerial
devices containing one hundred thirty milligrams (130 mg) or less of explosive
materials and classified as fireworks UN0336 by the United States department of
transportation at 49 CFR 172.101 as of the effective date of this section, and
not including fused setpieces containing components which together exceed fifty
milligrams (50 mg) of salute powder.
DIRECTOR: The director of the Liberty Lake department of planning and community
development or his designee, who shall act as the local fire official.
DISPLAY FIREWORKS: Large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation and includes, but is
not limited to, salutes containing more than two (2) grains (130 mg) of
explosive materials, aerial shells containing more than forty (40) grams of
pyrotechnic compositions, and other display pieces which exceed the limits of
explosive materials for classification as "consumer fireworks" and are
classified as fireworks UN0333, UN0334, or UN0335 by the United States
department of transportation at 49 CFR 172.101 as of the effective date of this
section, and including fused setpieces containing components which exceed fifty
milligrams (50 mg) of salute powder.
FIREWORKS: Any composition or device designed to produce a visible or audible
effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation, and which meets the
definition of articles pyrotechnic, or consumer fireworks, or display
fireworks.
IMPORTER: Any person who for any purpose:
   A.   Brings fireworks into the city or causes fireworks to be brought into
the city;
   B.   Procures the delivery or receives shipments of any fireworks into the
city; or
   C.   Buys or contracts to buy fireworks for shipment into the city.
LICENSE: A nontransferable formal authorization which the state of Washington
is permitted to issue under provisions of RCW chapter 70.77 to engage in the
act specifically designated therein.
LICENSEE: Any person issued a fireworks license in conformance with this
chapter.
MANUFACTURER: Includes any person who manufactures, makes, constructs,
fabricates or produces any fireworks article or device but does not include
persons who assemble or fabricate sets or mechanical pieces in public displays
for fireworks.
NEW FIREWORKS ITEM: Any fireworks initially classified or reclassified as
articles pyrotechnic, display fireworks or consumer fireworks by the United
States department of transportation after the effective date of this section,
and which comply with the construction, chemical composition and labeling
regulations of the United States consumer products safety commission, 16 CFR,
parts 1500 and 1507, as determined by the Washington state patrol through the
director of fire protection.
PERMIT: The official authorization granted by the director for the purpose of
establishing and maintaining a place within the city where fireworks are
manufactured, constructed, produced, packaged, stored, sold, exchanged and
authorization granted by the director for a public display of fireworks.
PERMITTEE: Any person issued a fireworks permit in conformance with this
chapter.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
concern, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate or any
other group or combination acting as a unit.
PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS: An entertainment feature where the public is or
could be admitted or allowed to view the display or discharge of display
fireworks.
PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR: Includes any individual who by experience and training
has demonstrated the required skill and ability for safely setting up and
discharging public displays of display fireworks.
RETAILER: Includes any person who, at a fixed location or place of business,
offers for sale, sells or exchanges for consideration consumer fireworks to a
consumer or user.
WHOLESALER: Includes any person other than an importer, exporter or
manufacturer selling only to wholesalers, who sells fireworks to a retailer or
any other person for resale, and also includes any person who sells display
fireworks to public display licensees. (Ord. 95, 8-6-2002)
6-4-3: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION:
This chapter shall be deemed to be an exercise of the police power of the city
to preserve the public peace, health, safety and welfare, and its provisions
shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of that purpose. (Ord. 95,
8-6-2002)
6-4-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Activities Requiring Permit.
      1.   In addition to a license issued by the Washington state patrol
through the director of fire protection, a person needs a city permit to:
         a.   Manufacture, import, possess (except as provided below) or sell
any fireworks at wholesale or retail for any use;
         b.   Make a public display of fireworks;
         c.   Transport fireworks, except as a licensee or as a public carrier
delivering to a licensee;
         d.   Assemble, compound, use and/or display articles pyrotechnic or
special effects in the production of motion pictures, radio or television
productions, or live entertainment.
         e.   Establish or maintain a place where fireworks are manufactured,
constructed, produced, packaged, stored, sold, exchanged, discharged or used.
      2.   Except as authorized by a license and permit under subsection B of
this section, no person may discharge display fireworks at any place.
      3.   The assembling, compounding, use and display of articles pyrotechnic
or special effects in the production of motion pictures, radio or television
productions or live entertainment shall be under the direction and control of a
pyrotechnic operator licensed by the state of Washington and who possesses a
valid permit.
      4.   No permit shall be issued by the county for the retail sale of any
fireworks. (Ord. 95, 8-6-2002)
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   An applicant for a permit required under this chapter shall make
written application to the director at least ten (10) days prior to
commencement of the activity for which the permit is sought. No person less
than eighteen (18) years of age may apply for or receive a license or permit
under this chapter.
      2.   The form of the application and the criteria for issuance, denial or
issuance with conditions shall be the same as used by the chief of the
Washington state patrol through the director of fire protection in processing
applications for the corresponding state license. Activities authorized by a
county permit shall conform to the provisions of article 78 of the uniform fire
code.
   C.   Permit Fees:
      1.   The director is charged with the duty of administering this chapter
and collecting fees provided herein. The permit fee hereunder shall be as
follows:
 
Manufacturers, wholesalers, importers and exporters, annual fee  $100.00
Public display of fireworks or pyrotechnic special effects, each 100.00
display
 
      2.   The fees prescribed hereunder shall be paid at the time the
application for a permit is filed with the director and there shall be no
refunds. Annual permit fees shall be for the period from January 1 to December
31 of each year or any fractional part thereof. All permits shall expire on
December 31 of the year issued, unless sooner surrendered or revoked. (Ord. 95,
8-6-2002)
6-4-5: SALE AND USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS:
   A.   Sale: No consumer fireworks shall be sold or offered for sale at retail
within the city.
   B.   Use: It is unlawful for any person to ignite, discharge, use or explode
any consumer fireworks within the city, except when duly authorized pursuant to
the provision of subsection
6-4-4A of this chapter. (Ord. 95, 8-6-2002)
6-4-6: SEIZURE OF FIREWORKS:
   A.   Violation Of Chapter: Any fireworks which are illegally sold, offered
for sale, used, discharged, possessed or transported in violation of the
provisions of this chapter are subject to seizure by the director or his
designee by summary destruction at any time subsequent to thirty (30) days from
the seizure or ten (10) days from the final termination of proceedings under
the provisions of subsection B of this section, whichever is later.
   B.   Proceedings:
      1.   Any person whose fireworks are seized under the provisions of
subsection A of this section may, within thirty (30) days after such seizure,
petition the director to return the fireworks seized upon the grounds that such
fireworks were illegally or erroneously seized. Any petition filed hereunder
shall be considered by the director within fifteen (15) days after filing and
an oral hearing granted the petitioner, if requested. Notice of the decision of
the director shall be served upon the petitioner. The director may order the
fireworks seized under this section disposed of or returned to the petitioner
if illegally or erroneously seized. The determination of the director is final
unless, within thirty (30) days, an action is commenced in a court of competent
jurisdiction in the state of Washington for the recovery of the fireworks
seized by the director.
      2.   If the fireworks are not returned to petitioner, or destroyed as
provided for in subsection A of this section, the director may sell confiscated
consumer fireworks and display fireworks that are legal for use and possession
under the provisions of this chapter to wholesalers licensed under RCW chapter
70.77. Sale shall be by public auction after publishing a notice of the date,
place and time of the auction in a newspaper of general circulation in Spokane
County, at least three (3) days before the date of the auction. The proceeds of
the sale of the seized fireworks under this section shall be deposited in the
county's general fund. Fireworks that are not legal for use and possession in
the state shall be destroyed by the director. (Ord. 95, 8-6-2002)
6-4-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by
imprisonment in the county jail for a maximum term fixed by the court of not
more than ninety (90) days, or by a fine in an amount fixed by the court, of
not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or both such imprisonment and
fine. (Ord. 95, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Spokane Regional Health District
6-5-2: E-Cigarettes Prohibited
6-5-3: Enforcement And Penalties
6-5-4: State And Federal Law
6-5-1: SPOKANE REGIONAL HEALTH DISTRICT:
The Liberty Lake city council adopts the findings, testimony and record of the
Spokane regional health district on the matter of electronic cigarettes,
including resolution 10-05 passed by the Spokane regional health district board
of health on September 23, 2010. (Ord. 193, 4-19-2011, eff. 5-3-2011)
6-5-2: E-CIGARETTES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) ("minor") may purchase,
attempt to purchase, possess, or obtain e-cigarettes, their component parts, or
any other similar device.
   B.   No person or business may give, market, sell, which includes mechanical
sales through any device that mechanically dispenses such products, distribute,
transfer, or offer e-cigarettes, their component parts, or similar devices to
minors. (Ord. 193, 4-19-2011, eff. 5-3-2011)
6-5-3: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   This chapter shall be enforced by the Liberty Lake police department
and/or health officer for the Spokane regional health district or his or her
designee who shall be the "enforcement officer" as that term is used in chapter
7.80 Revised Code Of Washington.
   B.   Violation of any provision of this chapter by a minor is a class 3
civil infraction and subject to a monetary penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00).
Each transaction, including, but not limited to, gifting, distributing,
transferring, selling, marketing, or offering e-cigarettes, is a new and
separate violation.
   C.   Violation of any provision of this chapter by a person or business
other than a minor is a class 1 civil infraction and subject to a monetary
penalty of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Each transaction, including,
but not limited to, gifting, distributing, transferring, selling, marketing, or
offering e-cigarettes, is a new and separate violation. (Ord. 193, 4-19-2011,
eff. 5-3-2011)
6-5-4: STATE AND FEDERAL LAW:
This chapter shall be harmonized to avoid any conflict with chapter 70.155
Revised Code Of Washington and with any other federal or state preempting laws
or regulations. Nothing in this chapter diminishes the authority of the city of
Liberty Lake to enforce Revised Code Of Washington 70.155.080 directly or any
other applicable laws or regulations.
This chapter shall be null and void on the day that state or federal
legislation goes into effect incorporating either the same or substantially
similar provisions as are contained in this chapter, or in the event that a
pertinent state or federal administrative agency issues and promulgates
regulations preempting such action by the city of Liberty Lake. The city of
Liberty Lake legislative body may determine via resolution whether or not
identical or substantially similar statewide legislation has been enacted for
the purpose of triggering the provisions of this section. (Ord. 193, 4-19-2011,
eff. 5-3-2011)
CHAPTER 6
NOISE
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Public Nuisance Noises Prohibited
6-6-3: Exceptions
6-6-4: Penalty
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are adopted for the purpose of this chapter:
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled vehicle used primarily for transporting
persons or property that is required to be licensed under the laws of
Washington.
NOISE: The intensity, duration and character of sounds from any and all
sources.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation or any
other entity public or private including law enforcement officers.
PUBLIC NUISANCE NOISE: Any sound which unreasonably either annoys, injures,
interferes with or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of any
person regardless of the degree or severity of any annoyance, interference or
damage.
STREET: The right of way owned or occupied by the city or other agency with
jurisdiction when such right of way is opened for the use of the public for
pedestrian or vehicular travel. (Ord. 98-A, 1-8-2013)
6-6-2: PUBLIC NUISANCE NOISES PROHIBITED:
No person shall cause or make while on private or public property sound that is
a public nuisance noise. The following sounds are determined to be public
nuisance noises:
   A.   Sound from a motor vehicle audio system, such as a radio, tape player
or compact disc player, which is operated at such a volume so as to
unreasonably annoy, injure, interfere with or endanger the comfort, repose,
health or safety of any person or be clearly heard by any person at a distance
of seventy five feet (75') or more from the vehicle or the source of the sound.
   B.   The frequent, repetitive or continuous sounding of any horn, siren or
loudspeaker, except as a warning of danger or as specifically permitted by law.
   C.   The use of a loudspeaker or sound amplifier or other device which
produces amplified sound upon streets for the purpose of commercial advertising
or sales or for attracting the attention of the public to any vehicle,
structure or property or the contents therein provided that vendors whose sole
method of selling a product is from a moving vehicle shall be exempt from this
subsection.
   D.   The operation of a motor vehicle upon city streets in violation of
standards set forth in Washington Administrative Code chapter 173-62 which is
hereby adopted by this reference.
   E.   Sounds which unreasonably annoy, injure, interfere with or endanger the
comfort, repose, health and safety of any person. (Ord. 98-A, 1-8-2013)
6-6-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The following sounds are exempt from this chapter:
   A.   Sounds originating from aircraft.
   B.   Sounds created by emergency equipment, fire alarms or sirens used in
connection with emergency management or law enforcement activities.
   C.   Sounds created by construction equipment during the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., Monday through Friday and
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., Saturday and Sunday
provided the sounds are in conformance with state law, Revised Code Of
Washington chapter 70.107. Special circumstances which necessitate work outside
the designated hours must be approved in advance by the city administrator or
designee.
   D.   Sounds created by the lawful discharge of fireworks.
   E.   Sounds originating from authorized public events.
   F.   Sounds which do not unreasonably annoy, injure, interfere with or
endanger the comfort, repose, health and safety of any person. (Ord. 98-A, 1-8-
2013)
6-6-4: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter is declared to be a class 2 civil infraction
pursuant to Revised Code Of Washington chapter 7.80. (Ord. 98-A, 1-8-2013)
CHAPTER 7
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
SECTION:
6-7-1: Purpose
6-7-2: Definitions
6-7-3: Violation
6-7-4: Procedure
6-7-5: Commencement Of Action; Enforcement
6-7-6: Summary Closure
6-7-7: Severability
6-7-1: PURPOSE:
Chronic nuisance properties present grave health, safety and welfare concerns,
which the property owners or persons in charge of such properties have failed
to take corrective action to abate the nuisance condition. Chronic nuisance
properties have a tremendous negative impact upon the quality of life, safety
and health of the neighborhoods where they are located. This chapter is enacted
to remedy nuisance activities that repeatedly occur or exist at chronic
nuisance properties by providing a process for abatement; and this remedy is
not an exclusive remedy available under any state or local laws and may be used
in conjunction with such other laws.
Also, chronic nuisance properties are a financial burden to the city by the
repeated calls for service to the properties because of the nuisance activities
that repeatedly occur or exist on such property, and this chapter is a means to
ameliorate those conditions and hold responsible the owners or persons in
charge of such property. (Ord. 224, 10-6-2015)
6-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
ABATE: To repair, replace, remove, destroy, or otherwise remedy a condition
which constitutes a violation of this chapter by such means and in such a
manner and to such an extent as the applicable city department director or
designee determines is necessary in the interest of the general health, safety
and welfare of the community.
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY: A property on which three (3) or more nuisance
activities occur or exist during any sixty (60) day period.
CONTROL: The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract or govern
property, or conduct that occurs on a property.
DRUG RELATED ACTIVITY: Any unlawful activity at a property which consists of
the manufacture, delivery, sale, storage, possession, or giving away of any
controlled substance as defined in chapter 69.50 Revised Code Of Washington,
legend drug as defined in chapter 69.41 Revised Code Of Washington, or
imitation controlled substances as defined in chapter 69.52 Revised Code Of
Washington.
LANDLORD: The owner, lessor, or sublessor of the dwelling unit or the property
of which it is a part, and in addition, means any person designated as a
representative of the landlord.
NUISANCE ACTIVITY: Means and includes:
   A.   A nuisance as defined by state law or local ordinance occurring around
or near the property; or
   B.   Any of the following activities, behaviors or criminal conduct:
Violation Code Section
Violation                                                      Code Section
Any firearms violations                                        6-1-33
Assault                                                        6-1-18
Disorderly conduct                                             6-1-28
Disorderly house                                               10-3(I)
Drug related activity                                          -
Failure to disperse                                            6-1-49
Gang related activity (as defined in RCW 59.18.030)            -
Harassment                                                     6-1-37
Indecent exposure                                              6-1-48
Lewd conduct                                                   -
Loitering for the purpose of engaging in drug related activity -
Noise                                                          -
Patronizing a prostitute                                       6-1-48
Prostitution                                                   6-1-48
Reckless endangerment                                          6-1-18
Stalking                                                       6-1-37
 
Any attempt to commit and/or conspiracy to commit any of the above activities,
behaviors or conduct.
OWNER: Any person having any interest in the real estate in question as
indicated in the records of the office of the Spokane County auditor, or who
establishes under this chapter, their ownership interest therein.
PERSON: Natural person, joint venture, partnership, association, club, company,
corporation, business trust, organization, or the manager, lessee, agent,
officer or employee of any of them.
PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH A PROPERTY: Any person who, on the occasion of a
nuisance activity, has entered, patronized, visited, or attempted to enter,
patronize or visit, or waited to enter, patronize or visit a property or a
person present on property, including, without limitation, any officer,
director, customer, agent, employee, or any independent contractor of a
property, or a person in charge of or owner of a property.
PERSON IN CHARGE OF A PROPERTY: Any person, in actual or constructive
possession of a property, including, but not limited to, an owner, occupant,
agent, or property manager of a property under his control.
PREMISES AND PROPERTY: May be used by this chapter interchangeably and means
any building, lot, parcel, dwelling, rental unit, real estate or land or
portion thereof including property used as residential or commercial property.
RENTAL UNIT: Any structure or that part of a structure, including, but not
limited to, single-family home, room or apartment, which is rented to another
and used as a home, residence, or sleeping place by one or more persons. (Ord.
224, 10-6-2015)
6-7-3: VIOLATION:
   A.   Any property within the city which is a chronic nuisance property is in
violation of this chapter and subject to its remedies; and
   B.   Any person in charge who permits property to be a chronic nuisance
property shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to its remedies.
(Ord. 224, 10-6-2015)
6-7-4: PROCEDURE:
   A.   When the chief of police, or his designee, receives police
documentation confirming the occurrence of three (3) or more nuisance
activities within a sixty (60) day period on the property, the chief of police,
or his designee, may review such reports to determine whether they describe the
nuisance activities enumerated in section
6-7-2 of this chapter. Upon such a finding, the chief of police, or his
designee, shall notify a property owner at the address shown on the county
auditor records, and shall notify the person in charge of the property in
writing that the property is in danger of being declared a chronic nuisance
property.
   B.   The notice shall contain:
      1.   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
      2.   A concise description of the nuisance activities that exist, or that
have occurred on the property;
      3.   A demand that the owner or person in charge respond to the chief of
police, or his designee, within ten (10) days of service of the notice to
discuss the nuisance activities and create a plan to abate the chronic
nuisance;
      4.   Offer the person in charge an opportunity to abate the nuisance
activities giving rise to the violation; and
      5.   A statement describing that if legal action is sought, the property
could be subject to closure, civil penalties and/or costs assessed up to one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per day after the notice of the chronic nuisance
property is received.
   C.   Such notice shall be either: 1) personally served, or 2) delivered by
first class mail to the person in charge of the property with a copy mailed to
the owner at the address indicated by the Spokane County auditor, if different
than the person in charge of the property.
   D.   If the person in charge fails to respond to the notice within the time
prescribed, the chief of police, or his designee shall post such notice at the
property and issue the person in charge a class 1 civil infraction. If the
person in charge fails to respond to the issue infraction the matter shall be
referred to the city attorney for further action.
   E.   If the person in charge responds as required by the notice and agrees
to abate the nuisance activity, the chief of police, or his designee, and the
person in charge and/or the property owner, may work out an agreed upon course
of action which would abate the nuisance activity. If an agreed course of
action does not result in the abatement of the nuisance activities or if no
agreement concerning abatement is reached, the matter shall be forwarded to the
city attorney for enforcement action.
   F.   It is a defense to an action for chronic nuisance property that the
person in charge at all material times could not, in the exercise of reasonable
care or diligence, determine that the property had become chronic nuisance
property, or could not in spite of the exercise of reasonable care and
diligence, control the conduct leading to the determination that the property
is a chronic nuisance property. (Ord. 224, 10-6-2015)
6-7-5: COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Once the matter is referred to the city attorney, the city attorney
shall immediately review and make a determination to initiate legal action
authorized under this chapter or state statute, or may seek alternative forms
of abatement of the nuisance activity. The city attorney may initiate legal
action on the chronic nuisance property and seek civil penalties and costs in
superior court for the abatement of the nuisance.
   B.   In determining whether a property shall be deemed a chronic nuisance
property and subject to the court's jurisdiction, the city shall have the
initial burden of proof to show by a preponderance of the evidence that the
property is a chronic nuisance property. The city may submit official police
reports and other affidavits outlining the information that led to arrest(s),
if applicable, and other chronic nuisance activity occurring or existing at the
property. The failure to prosecute an individual, or the fact no one has been
convicted of a crime is not a defense to a chronic nuisance action.
   C.   Once a superior court determines the property to be a chronic nuisance
under this chapter the court may impose a civil penalty against any or all of
the persons in charge of the property and/or the owner of the property, and may
order any other relief deemed appropriate. A civil penalty may be assessed for
up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for each day the nuisance activity
continues to occur following the date of the original notice by the chief of
police, or his designee, as described in section 
6-7-4 of this chapter. In assessing the civil penalty, the court may consider
the following factors, citing to those found applicable:
      1.   The actions taken by the person in charge and/or owner to mitigate
or correct the nuisance activity;
      2.   The financial condition of the persons in charge;
      3.   The repeated or continuous nature of the nuisance activity;
      4.   The statements of the neighbors or those affected by the nuisance
activity; and
      5.   Any other factor deemed relevant by the court.
   D.   The superior court which determined the property to be a chronic
nuisance property shall also assess costs against the person in charge and/or
owner in the amount it costs the city to abate, or attempt to abate, the
nuisance activity.
   E.   If the superior court determines the property to be a chronic nuisance
property, the superior court shall order the property closed and secured
against all unauthorized access, use and occupancy for a period up to one year,
and may impose a civil penalty and costs.
   F.   Once a determination has been made by the superior court that the
chronic nuisance property shall be subject to closure, the court may authorize
the city to physically secure the premises and initiate such closure. Costs for
such closure shall be submitted to the court for review. Any civil penalty and/
or costs awarded to the city may be filed with the city treasurer who shall
cause the same to be filed as a lien on the property with the county treasurer.
The city shall file a formal lis pendens notice when an action for abatement is
filed in the superior court.
   G.   The superior court shall retain jurisdiction during any period of
closure or abatement of the property.
   H.   Spokane district court is to have jurisdiction of all civil infractions
issued pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 224, 10-6-2015)
6-7-6: SUMMARY CLOSURE:
Nothing in this chapter prohibits the city from taking any emergency action for
the summary closure of such property when it is necessary to avoid an immediate
threat to public welfare and safety. The city may take summary action to close
the property without complying with the notification provisions of section
6-7-4 of this chapter, but shall provide such notice as is reasonable under the
circumstances. (Ord. 224, 10-6-2015)
6-7-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter, or its application
to any person or circumstances, shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality
shall not affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section,
sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter, or its application to any person or
circumstances. (Ord. 224, 10-6-2015)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted
7-1-2: Speed Limits
7-1-3: Commute Trip Reduction
7-1-4: Covered Load Restrictions
7-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
Pursuant to Revised Code Of Washington 35.21.180, 35A.21.160 and 35A.21.140,
the Washington model traffic ordinance, as set forth in chapter 308-330 of the
Washington administrative code (WAC) except WAC 308-330-500 through 308-330-540
relating to bicycle licensing, is hereby adopted by reference as the traffic
code of the city. The city clerk shall maintain one copy on file of the code
adopted by this section.
To the extent that any provision of the Spokane County code, or any other law,
rule or regulation referenced in the traffic code, is necessary or convenient
to establish the validity, enforceability or interpretation of the traffic
code, then such provision of the Spokane County code, or other law, rule or
regulation is hereby adopted by reference. (Ord. 26, 7-24-2001)
7-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Basic Speed Limits: Pursuant to Revised Code Of Washington 46.61.400,
the city hereby establishes a speed limit of twenty five (25) miles per hour on
all streets within the city, except the speed limits for those streets listed
below. Upon the recommendation of the city engineer after completion of an
engineering and traffic investigation pursuant to Revised Code Of Washington
46.61.415, the city council may modify the established speed limits.
Street/Area Speed Limit
            (mph)
Street/Area                              Speed Limit
                                         (mph)
Residential areas                        25
School zones                             20
Arterial streets:                         
 Appleway                                
  Liberty Lake Road to Molter Road     35
  Molter Road east                     45
 Country Vista                           
  East                                 30
  West of Henry Road to the city limit 45
  West of Liberty Lake Road            35
  West of Whitman Lane                 35
 Knox                                   25
 Liberty Lake Road                      35
 Mission                                35
 Molter Road                            30
 Sprague Avenue                          
  Molter east to city limits           25
  Molter west to Liberty Lake Road     30
 Valleyway                              35
  West of Molter Road (residential)    25
 
(Ord. 87, 4-16-2002; amd. Ord. 106, 11-5-2002; Ord. 169, 6-17-2008; Ord. 202,
9-18-2012)
   B.   Traffic Control Devices: The city engineer is directed to post the city
streets with proper signs and traffic control devices in order to provide
notice of the maximum speed limits that are set by this section.
   C.   Enforcement: The city police department shall enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The council further authorizes the enforcement of speed limits
and the model traffic ordinance by the Spokane County sheriff and all deputies.
A person exceeding the city street speed limit shall have been deemed to have
committed a traffic infraction and be liable for monetary penalties as set
forth in Revised Code Of Washington chapter 46.63. (Ord. 202, 9-18-2012)
7-1-3: COMMUTE TRIP REDUCTION:
   A.   Authority To Adopt Laws By Reference: Pursuant to Revised Code Of
Washington 35A.11.020 and 35A.12.140, the city of Liberty Lake adopts by
reference Spokane County commute trip reduction ordinance 99 0690 as presently
constituted and hereinafter amended as the commute trip reduction ordinance of
the city of Liberty Lake. Attached to the ordinance codified herein as exhibit
A is a copy of Spokane County ordinance 99 0690.
   B.   Modification Of Spokane County Ordinance: The city modifies Spokane
County ordinance 99 0690 as follows:
Section 10 entitled "exemptions and goal modifications" is modified, where
applicable, by adding the phrase "and the City of Liberty Lake" after each
"Spokane County" phrase.
   C.   Adoption Of Other Rules And Laws: To establish the validity,
enforceability or interpretation of the commute trip reduction ordinance, all
laws cited therein, related rules or regulations are hereby adopted by
reference.
   D.   Reference To Hearing Bodies: To the extent that the Spokane County
ordinance 99 0690 refers to "hearing examiners", "board of county
commissioners" or any other similar body, the city council shall serve in all
such roles retaining the right to delegate such hearing authority to an
appointed hearing examiner. (Ord. 77A, 6-15-2010, eff. 7-6-2010)
7-1-4: COVERED LOAD RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Covered Load Creation; Purpose: A covered load law is hereby created
for the purpose of preserving the community free of unnecessary littering and
to protect the citizens of the city of Liberty Lake from accidents and injuries
that can be caused by uncovered or unsecured vehicle loads.
   B.   Uncovered And Unsecured Loads Prohibited:
      1.   Any vehicle(s) that shall use the public roadways or streets within
the city of Liberty Lake to transport uncovered or unsecured loads are hereby
prohibited from driving or moving on said roadways or streets without first
securing the uncovered or unsecured loads, and which will prevent spillage,
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom as required by
Revised Code Of Washington 46.61.655, or as hereafter amended.
      2.   No person shall transport solid waste to a staffed transfer station
or disposal site without covering or securing his/her vehicle(s) uncovered or
unsecured load in such a manner that will prevent spillage, dropping, sifting,
leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom.
      3.   A surcharge or fee for pickup loads, plus any other applicable
charges will be assessed for any load not so secured or covered, payable by any
person individually, and/or as agent or employee of any other person or entity
for which such unsecured or uncovered load is transported.
      4.   A vehicle transporting sand, dirt or gravel in compliance with the
provisions of Revised Code Of Washington 46.61.655 is exempt from this section.
   C.   Enforcement And Penalties:
      1.   This section shall be enforced by the Liberty Lake police department
or its designee(s).
      2.   Violation of this section by any party shall be subject to: a) a
surcharge or fee as designated herein, b) a civil infraction or gross
misdemeanor as set forth in Revised Code Of Washington 46.61.655, or hereafter
amended, or c) any other infraction permitted under state law. (Ord. 220, 9-1-
2015)
CHAPTER 2
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
7-2-1: General Restrictions
7-2-2: Restricted Parking
7-2-3: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-2-4: Illegally Parked Vehicles
7-2-5: Impoundment Procedures
7-2-6: Violation; Penalty
7-2-1: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
Except when in compliance with law, the direction of a police officer, official
traffic control device or when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic,
no person shall:
   A.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
      1.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      2.   On a sidewalk or street planting strip;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   On a crosswalk;
      5.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless official signs or markings indicate a different no parking area opposite
the ends of a safety zone;
      6.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      7.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within
a highway tunnel;
      8.   On any railroad tracks;
      9.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing or
parking; and
      10.   Directly adjacent to curbside, clearly visible, residential
mailboxes between ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M. on all
days of scheduled mail delivery by the United States Postal Service.
   B.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily to
pick up or discharge a passenger(s):
      1.   In front of a public or private driveway or within five feet (5') of
the end of the curb radius of the same;
      2.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
      3.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk;
      4.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing signal,
stop sign, yield sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway; or
      5.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of the entrance when properly posted.
   C.   In any parking place or area designated as handicapped parking by
displaying the international blue and white handicapped symbol of a wheelchair;
provided, that it shall not be a violation of this chapter to stand, stop or
park a vehicle in a place or area so designated when the vehicle clearly
displays the handicapped symbol on a license plate, window decal or card as
provided by Revised Code of Washington 46.16.381(3).
A person charged with a violation of this subsection shall not be determined to
have committed a violation if he produces in court or prior to the court
appearance the special plate, special card or special decal required hereunder
or demonstrates he was entitled to the same at the time of being ticketed.
(Ord. 110, 2-4-2003)
   D.   Park and leave standing upon any street, highway, roadway, alley, or
any public right-of-way, including any parking lot owned or controlled by the
City, any vehicle, recreational vehicle, trailer, coach, boat or vessel, parts
or any other conveyance (collectively "vehicle") for a continuous period longer
than seventy two (72) hours unless an extended period of parking is approved by
the Chief of Police.
If in violation of this section, the Police Department and/or the City's Code
enforcement official(s), after diligent inquiry to locate the owner thereof,
may place a notice of infraction on the vehicle. If the vehicle has not been
removed after a reasonable period of time after the notice of infraction has
been placed on the vehicle, the Police Department may impound the vehicle or
other property as provided for in this chapter or by law. (Ord. 110-A, 3-6-
2018)
   E.   Parking or standing shall be permitted in the manner provided by law at
all other places except a time limit may be imposed or parking restricted, upon
order of the Chief of Police, as posted in the vicinity of such place. (Ord.
110, 2-4-2003; amd. Ord. 110-A, 3-6-2018)
7-2-2: RESTRICTED PARKING:
   A.   Parking In Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than eight
feet (8') of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular
traffic, and no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in
such position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   B.   Special Parking Zones: The Chief of Police, in consultation with the
City Traffic Engineer, may establish loading zones, safety zones, danger zones,
school zones, transit stops and such other restricted parking places, on the
public streets as necessary to protect the public safety and convenience. Such
zones shall be designated by posting of descriptive signs or other markings.
   C.   One-Way And Two-Way Road Parking Regulations:
      1.   Restrictions:
         a.   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a two-way roadway shall be
so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels parallel to and within twelve
inches (12") of the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
         b.   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be
so stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the
direction of authorized traffic movement, with its right hand wheels within
twelve inches (12") of the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, or its left
hand wheels within twelve inches (12") of the left hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      2.   Signs: The State Highway Commission, with respect to highways under
its jurisdiction, may place signs prohibiting or restricting the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles on any highway where, in its opinion, as
evidenced by resolution or order, such stopping, standing or parking is
dangerous to those using the highway or where the stopping, standing or parking
of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon.
Such signs shall be official signs and no person shall stop, stand or park any
vehicle in violation of the restrictions stated on such signs. (Ord. 110, 2-4-
2003)
7-2-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Obstruction Of Traffic: No person shall park or leave standing any
vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the main traveled part of any
street or highway; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to the
driver of any vehicle which is disabled while on such main portion of such
street or highway, in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to
avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
   B.   Parking For Certain Purposes: No person shall park a vehicle upon a
roadway for the principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying such vehicle for sale or for advertising services;
      2.   Greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by
emergency.
   C.   Parking On Narrow Streets: When the width of an improved roadway does
not exceed twenty feet (20'), the Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs
indicating no parking upon both sides of such street. When the width of the
improved roadway is between twenty feet (20') and twenty eight feet (28'), the
Police Chief is authorized to erect a sign indicating no parking upon one side
of the street. When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as provided in this section, no person shall park a vehicle upon any
such street in violation of any sign.
   D.   Parking Prohibited At All Times On Certain Streets: No person shall
park on a City street where signs are posted under the authority of the Chief
of Police.
   E.   Overnight Parking In Residential Areas: It is unlawful to park or
otherwise leave overnight, or between the hours of one minute after twelve
o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., on any street or highways in
the City on those areas classified as residential by the official zoning
ordinance, commercial trailers and/or vehicles over ten thousand (10,000)
pounds licensed gross vehicle weight, the principal use of which is the
transportation of commodities, merchandise, produce, freight, animals,
vehicles, passengers for hire, or which are used primarily in construction or
farming, including, but not limited to, bulldozers, backhoes, tractors and
cranes. It is not necessary that restricted parking or other traffic signs be
erected for the purpose of enforcing this section.
   F.   Parking On Or Adjacent To Bicycle Paths:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, bicycle or other
device on or adjacent to a designated bicycle path in such a manner as to
obstruct or restrict the use of any portion thereof; provided, that authorized
emergency and maintenance vehicles are exempted when engaged in necessary
emergency or maintenance work; provided further, that vehicles, bicycles or
other devices requiring emergency repair may remain on the paths if its owner
or operator is unable to remove it from the place where it is located, and so
notifies law enforcement officials, and effects the removal within a twelve
(12) hour period.
      2.   Where a motor vehicle, bicycle or other device is left stopped,
standing or parked on a designated bicycle path as prohibited in subsection F1
of this section, any police officer shall be authorized to direct that such
vehicle, bicycle or other device be towed away at the expense of the owner or
other person responsible for such vehicle, bicycle or device. (Ord. 110, 2-4-
2003)
7-2-4: ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Notice Of Illegal Parking: Whenever any motor vehicle without an
operator is found parked or stopped in violation of any of the restrictions
imposed in this title, the officer finding such vehicle shall record its
license number and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle
which may identify its operator or owner, and shall conspicuously affix to such
vehicle a notice of infraction.
   B.   Presumption Of Illegal Parking: In any prosecution charging a violation
of any law or regulation governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof
that the particular vehicle described in the infraction was parked in violation
of any such law or regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in
the infraction was at the time of such parking the registered owner of such
vehicle, shall constitute prima facie evidence that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred. The presumption
stated herein shall apply only when the procedures outlined in subsection A of
this section have been followed. (Ord. 110, 2-4-2003)
7-2-5: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES:
Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize seizure of a vehicle
without a warrant where a warrant would otherwise be required by law.
   A.   Impoundment And Removal By Police Officer: Whenever the driver of a
vehicle is arrested for a violation of RCW 46.61.502 or 46.61.504, or of
46.20.342 or 46.20.420, or the equivalent provisions of this title, the vehicle
is subject to impoundment, pursuant to the applicable ordinance or state law at
the direction of a city police officer. In addition, a police officer may take
custody of a vehicle and provide for its prompt removal to a place of safety
under any of the following circumstances:
      1.   Whenever a police officer finds a vehicle standing upon the roadway
in violation of any of the provisions of RCW 46.61.560, or the equivalent
provisions of this title, the officer may provide for the removal of the
vehicle or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move
the vehicle to a position off the roadway;
      2.   Whenever a police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon a highway
where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic or jeopardizes public
safety;
      3.   Whenever a police officer finds an unattended vehicle at the scene
of an accident or when the driver of a vehicle involved in an accident is
physically or mentally incapable of deciding upon steps to be taken to protect
his property;
      4.   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is arrested and taken into custody
by a police officer;
      5.   Whenever a police officer discovers a vehicle that the officer
determines to be a stolen vehicle;
      6.   Whenever a vehicle without a special license plate, card or decal
indicating that the vehicle is being used to transport a disabled person under
RCW 46.16.381 is parked in a stall or space clearly and conspicuously marked
under RCW 46.61.581 which space is provided on private property without charge
or on public property;
      7.   Upon determining that a person is operating a motor vehicle without
a valid driver's license in violation of RCW 46.20.005, or the equivalent
provisions of this title, or with a license that has been expired for ninety
(90) days or more;
      8.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle or device parked, angle
parked, or so used as to endanger any user or potential user of any public
street or way open to the public;
      9.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle stalled, disabled,
unattended or unable to move under its own power on or in any public facility,
including streets, roads or highways, tunnels, bridges or approaches thereto in
the city, and such an occurrence is or may be a menace or obstruction to the
safety of the general public;
      10.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle operating upon the
streets and highways of this city which is defective in equipment in such a
manner that it is unsafe. Said vehicle shall be an unlawful vehicle and may be
prevented from further operation until the equipment defect is corrected and it
satisfactorily passes inspection as directed by the chief of police or his
designee. The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prevent the
operation of any such defective vehicle to a place for correction of the
equipment defect in the manner directed by any peace officer or representative
of the state commission on equipment;
      11.   When the vehicle is impeding or is likely to impede the normal flow
of vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
      12.   When the vehicle is illegally occupying a restricted tow away zone
such as a truck, commercial load, bus, loading or other similar zone where, by
order of the police chief parking is limited to designated classes of vehicles
or is prohibited during certain hours, or designated days, or at all times, and
where such vehicle is interfering with the proper and intended use of such
zones. With respect to any of the above grounds for impoundment, if in the
discretion of a police officer, a delay in the impoundment and removal of the
vehicle would not unduly inconvenience or endanger the public safety and
health, he may make or cause to be made efforts of notification of an
identifiable owner. Such efforts of notification may include canvassing the
area, telephone calls or application of a twenty four (24) hour notification
sticker referenced in this section;
      13.   When the vehicle poses an immediate danger to public safety; or
      14.   When a police officer has probable cause to believe that the
vehicle constitutes or contains evidence of a crime, if impoundment is
reasonably necessary in such instance to obtain or preserve evidence.
   B.   Impound After Notice:
      1.   A vehicle not subject to immediate impoundment by a police officer
under this chapter may be impounded after notice of the proposed impoundment
has been securely attached to and conspicuously displayed on the vehicle for a
period of twenty four (24) hours prior to such impoundment for the following
reasons:
         a.   When such vehicle is parked in violation of any law, ordinance or
regulation; or
         b.   When such vehicle is so mechanically defective as to be unsafe
for operation; provided, however, that this section shall not be construed to
prevent the operation of any such defective vehicle to a place for correction
of equipment defect in a manner directed by any law enforcement officer.
      2.   If the vehicle has current Washington registration plates, the
officer shall check the records to learn the identity of the last owner of
record. The officer shall make a reasonable effort to contact the owner by
telephone in order to give the owner the information on the twenty four (24)
hour notification tag. If the vehicle is not removed within twenty four (24)
hours from the time the notification tag is attached, the law enforcement
officer may take custody of the vehicle and provide for the vehicle's removal
to a place of safety. A vehicle that does not pose a traffic hazard may remain
on the roadside for more than twenty four (24) hours if the owner or operator
is unable to remove it from the place where it is located and so notified law
enforcement officials and requests assistance.
      3.   The notification placed on the vehicle shall contain the following
information:
         a.   The date and time the notice was attached;
         b.   The identity of the police officer;
         c.   A statement that if the vehicle is not removed within twenty four
(24) hours from the time the sticker is attached, the vehicle may be taken into
custody and stored at the owner's expense;
         d.   A statement that if the vehicle is not redeemed as provided in
RCW 46.55.120, the registered owner will have committed a traffic infraction;
and
         e.   The address and telephone number where additional information may
be obtained.
   C.   State Laws Adopted: Pursuant to RCW 35.21.180 and 35A.21.160, the city
hereby adopts by reference the following state law related to towing and
impounding of vehicles: RCW 46.55.010, RCW 46.55.080, RCW 46.55.085, RCW
46.55.090, RCW 46.55.100, RCW 46.55.105, RCW 46.55.110, RCW 46.55.120, RCW
46.55.130, RCW 46.55.140 and RCW 46.55.230 as now in effect and as subsequently
amended as laws of the city that relate to the impoundment of unauthorized
vehicles, redemption rights, hearing procedures and junk vehicle disposition.
(Ord. 110, 2-4-2003)
7-2-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who has been found to have violated any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed to have committed an infraction and be punished by a
fine not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 110, 2-4-2003)
CHAPTER 3
MOTORIZED SCOOTERS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definition
7-3-2: Operation Regulations And Restrictions
7-3-3: Equipment
7-3-4: Responsibility For Minors
7-3-5: Penalty
7-3-1: DEFINITION:
The following definition shall be used in this chapter:
MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTER: A device with no more than two (2) 10-inch or smaller
diameter wheels that has handlebars, is designed to be stood or sat upon by the
operator, and is powered by an internal combustion engine or electric motor
that is capable of propelling the device with or without human propulsion. For
purposes of this section, a "pocket bike" and "minichopper" are considered
"motorized foot scooters". A motor driven cycle, a moped, an electric assisted
bicycle, or a motorcycle is not a "motorized foot scooter". (Ord. 135, 1-4-
2004)
7-3-2: OPERATION REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Motorized foot scooters shall not be operated upon a public roadway by
any person under the age of sixteen (16) years.
   B.   Motorized foot scooters shall not be operated on public roadways with a
speed limit of greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour.
   C.   Operators of motorized foot scooters shall adhere to all rules of the
road applicable to motorized vehicles.
   D.   Motorized foot scooters shall not be operated on city owned property,
city parks, walkways, paths, trails, sidewalks, or any other place where other
motorized vehicles are expressly prohibited.
   E.   Motorized foot scooters shall not be operated on publicly owned parking
lots, and privately owned parking lots without the permission of the owner.
   F.   No person shall transport or tow another person on, in or with a
motorized foot scooter within the city of Liberty Lake.
   G.   Motorized foot scooters shall not be operated in a negligent manner
within the city of Liberty Lake. For the purposes of this subsection, "to
operate in a negligent manner" means to operate a motorized scooter in such a
manner as to endanger any person or property, or to obstruct, hinder or impede
the lawful course of travel of any motor vehicle or the lawful use by any
pedestrian of public streets, sidewalks, paths, trails, walkways, or parks.
(Ord. 135, 1-4-2004)
7-3-3: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lights And Reflectors: Motorized foot scooters shall not be operated at
any time during one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to one-half (1/2) hour before
sunrise unless equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light
visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and
with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by the state patrol which
shall be visible from all distances up to six hundred feet (600') to the rear
when directly in front of lawful low beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A
lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500')
to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector. A light emitting
diode flashing taillight visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to
the rear may also be used in addition to the red reflector.
   B.   Release Lever: Motorized foot scooters shall be equipped so that the
drive motor is engaged through a switch lever or other mechanism that when
released will cause the drive motor to disengage or cease to function.
   C.   Noise Control; Muffler: Operation of a motorized foot scooter is
subject to provisions of the Liberty Lake noise ordinance. Operation of a gas
motorized foot scooter without a muffling device or operation with a modified
muffling device is unlawful.
   D.   Helmet: Any person operating a motorized foot scooter while in the city
of Liberty Lake shall wear an approved helmet designed for safety and shall
have either the neck or the chin strap of the helmet fastened securely while
the motorized foot scooter is in motion. "Helmet" means a protective covering
for the head consisting of a hard outer shell, padding adjacent to the inside
hard shell, and a neck or chin strap type retention system, with a label
required by the federal consumer product safety commission adopted by the code
of federal regulations 16 CFR 1203. (Ord. 135, 1-4-2004)
7-3-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR MINORS:
It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having control or
custody of a minor child to allow said minor to operate a motorized foot
scooter in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 135, 1-4-2004)
7-3-5: PENALTY:
Upon a determination that a violation of this chapter has occurred, law
enforcement officers may, at their discretion, issue a civil infraction not to
exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) to any included person, including
the parent or guardian, in violating any provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 135,
1-4-2004)
CHAPTER 4
OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Requirements And Restrictions
7-4-3: Registration Process And Fee Prior To Usage
7-4-4: Penalty For Noncompliance
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used in this chapter. Where a word or term
is undefined reference shall be to Revised Code Of Washington title 46.
GOLF CART: A gas powered or electric powered four (4) wheeled vehicle
originally designed and manufactured for operation on a golf course for
sporting purposes and has a speed attainable in one mile of not more than
twenty (20) miles per hour. A golf cart is not a nonhighway vehicle or off road
vehicle as defined in Revised Code Of Washington 46.09.310. A golf cart is not
considered a motor vehicle, except for the purposes of chapter 46.61 Revised
Code Of Washington.
GOLF CART REGISTRATION PERMIT: A privilege granted, upon compliance with the
terms of this chapter, to legally operate a golf cart upon a public street or
roadway within the corporate boundaries of the city of Liberty Lake during the
two (2) year period that the permit is valid.
GOLF CART REGISTRATION PERMIT FEE: An administrative charge imposed as
specified in this chapter for the granting of a golf cart registration permit
and the issuance of a golf cart registration permit decal.
GOLF CART ZONE: Any public roadway within the city of Liberty Lake having a
speed limit of twenty five (25) miles per hour or less.
OWNER: The person holding title to the golf cart and the person required to
register the golf cart with the city of Liberty Lake.
STREET: The entire right of way width and between the curb and boundary lines
and shoulder or swale of public property when any part thereof is open to the
use of the public for purposes of pedestrian, bicycle, or vehicular travel
including parking. (Ord. 227, 4-19-2016)
7-4-2: REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
The following use, operational requirements and restrictions are adopted by the
city of Liberty Lake for golf carts:
   A.   Every person operating a golf cart as authorized under this section is
granted all rights and is subject to all duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle under Revised Code Of Washington 46.61.
   B.   A golf cart may be operated on a street, including a public right of
way, by a person as follows:
      1.   Every person operating a golf cart as authorized under this section
must be at least sixteen (16) years of age and have a valid driver's license.
      2.   A person who has a revoked or suspended driver's license under
Revised Code Of Washington 46.20.285 may not operate a golf cart as authorized
under this section.
      3.   Any person operating a golf cart, as authorized under this section,
shall not transport more passengers than the manufacturer's designed seating
capacity. All occupants shall be seated during operation and the use of seat
belts shall be mandatory while the golf cart is being operated.
      4.   No golf cart may be operated at a speed greater than reasonable and
prudent for the existing conditions, and in no instance at a speed greater than
twenty (20) miles per hour.
      5.   Golf carts must be operated to the extreme right of the roadway and
must yield to all vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian traffic.
      6.   The authorized driver of a golf cart operating the cart on a street
can cross an excluded street but otherwise may not operate a golf cart on any
excluded street.
      7.   Golf carts are prohibited from pulling trailers, boats, jet skis,
other objects or people on streets.
      8.   Drivers shall maintain and have proof of insurance coverage for the
golf cart at the time of permit issuance.
      9.   Golf carts must be operated in accordance with all applicable state
and local laws and ordinances, including all laws, regulations and ordinances
pertaining to the possession and use of drugs and alcoholic beverages.
   C.   Golf carts shall not be operated on a street during one-half (1/2) hour
after sunset to one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise unless in compliance with
Revised Code Of Washington 46.37 regarding vehicle lighting and other
equipment, including equipping the golf cart with a lamp on the front which
shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet
(500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by
the Washington state patrol which shall be visible from all distances up to six
hundred feet (600') to the rear when directly in front of lawful low beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector. A light emitting diode flashing taillight visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may also be used in addition
to the red reflector.
   D.   Golf carts shall not be operated in a negligent manner. For the purpose
of this subsection, "to operate in a negligent manner" is defined as the
operation of a golf cart in such a manner as to endanger any person or
property, or to obstruct, hinder, or impede the lawful course of travel of any
motor vehicle or the lawful use by any pedestrian of public streets, sidewalks,
paths, trails, walkways, or parks.
   E.   Golf carts must be equipped with reflectors, seat belts, and rearview
mirrors when operated upon streets and highways as authorized under this
section.
   F.   Golf carts are exempt from motor vehicle licensing requirements, and
child restraint system use. (Ord. 227, 4-19-2016)
7-4-3: REGISTRATION PROCESS AND FEE PRIOR TO USAGE:
The following registration process and fee(s) are adopted by the city of
Liberty Lake for golf carts.
All golf cart owners must complete a golf cart registration application and
submit the application to the city of Liberty Lake police department for
approval before driving on a street. The owner of the golf cart must also have
a valid issued registration. The cost of the initial registration is zero. The
inspection and registration will be issued for the entire time that the person
owns the golf cart. The registration sticker must be displayed on the driver's
side front quarter panel, and the left rear of the cart to be easily visible by
the public and law enforcement personnel.
   A.   Each golf cart owner must have proof of ownership, insurance coverage,
and a completed waiver of liability, releasing the city of Liberty Lake from
liability that may arise as a result of operation of a golf cart inside the
city of Liberty Lake.
   B.   All golf carts must meet the requirements or minimum standards of
safety equipment as set forth in this chapter.
   C.   All golf cart operators must present a valid driver's license while
operating a golf cart in the street.
   D.   The golf cart owner/operator will be required to sign an acknowledgment
that they were provided an informational sheet that lists the rules and
regulations for operating a golf cart within the city of Liberty Lake.
   E.   The registration sticker shall be valid for as long as the golf cart is
owned by the applicant and operated in the city of Liberty Lake. The
registration sticker must be visible on a golf cart at all times while operated
on or in the street.
   F.   Lost or stolen registration stickers are the responsibility of the
owner and must be replaced before the golf cart is operated in the street.
   G.   The registration permit may be revoked if the owner or driver of a golf
cart fails to abide by the rules and regulations of this chapter; the owner or
driver of a golf cart fails to abide by the traffic laws; the owner fails to
maintain proof of insurance coverage during the entire permit registration
period.
   H.   The registration permit is not transferable. Upon transfer of ownership
of the golf cart to a person who intends to operate it over authorized streets
and parking areas, the new owner must register the golf cart with the city of
Liberty Lake. (Ord. 227, 4-19-2016)
7-4-4: PENALTY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
Upon a determination that a violation of this chapter has occurred, law
enforcement officers may, pursuant to Revised Code Of Washington chapter 7.80,
issue a class 1 civil infraction with a fine not to exceed two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) to any included person found in violation of this chapter. If
an underage operator is found to be using or operating a golf cart in violation
of this chapter, such matter and infraction will be referred to Spokane County
juvenile court.
Authorized city of Liberty Lake vehicles are exempt from this chapter. (Ord.
227, 4-19-2016)
CHAPTER 5
SEASONAL ROAD RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Intent
7-5-2: City Streets Defined
7-5-3: Administration And Enforcement Responsibility
7-5-4: Weight Limit Imposed
7-5-5: Emergency Closure
7-5-6: Emergency Restrictions
7-5-7: Emergency Bridge Restrictions
7-5-8: Signage
7-5-9: Special Permits
7-5-10: Liability For Damage To City Streets
7-5-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to protect the public investment in city streets
by imposing weight limits for vehicles on city streets. The city council finds
and declares that by reason of climatic and other conditions, city streets are
seriously damaged and often destroyed by the continuous movement and operation
of heavy trucks and other vehicles. By restricting or limiting the permissible
weight of a vehicle traveling on a city street, the city will protect the
public's investment and reduce potential public health and safety problems. The
frequent operation of heavy vehicles on city streets decreases the anticipated
life of the street, decreases property values and increases the cost to
maintain, repair and improve city streets. (Ord. 160, 3-20-2007)
7-5-2: CITY STREETS DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter, the term "city streets" as used herein means
all city streets identified in title 8, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 160, 3-
20-2007)
7-5-3: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY:
The administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility
of the director of planning and community development or his/her designee. The
director may make inspections to enforce this chapter and may notify the
property owner, trucking company, or solid waste collector of any violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 160, 3-20-2007)
7-5-4: WEIGHT LIMIT IMPOSED:
The following weight restrictions shall apply to city streets when posted with
notice of such restrictions when determined by the director that such
restrictions are necessary to prevent damage to the roadway:
   A.   Load Limit Per Tire: Load limit per tire is the weight in pounds
allowable per inch of rated tire tread width as designated on the tire sidewall
multiplied by the tire width in nominal inches as shown thereon or as converted
from metric designation to the nearest one-half inch (1/2") as shown on the
following table:
 
Tire Size; Nominal Inches   Allowable Weight Per Inch Of Rated Tread Width
 
Less than 8 inches (200 mm) 300 pounds per inch
8 inches or over (200 mm)   350 pounds per inch
9 inches or over (225 mm)   375 pounds per inch
10 inches or over (250 mm)  400 pounds per inch
 
The conversion factor for metric tread widths to inches of tread shall be
metric times 0.04 equals inches.
   B.   Front Axle Allowance: An allowance of ten percent (10%) above the
allowable weight as indicated on the table will be given for front axles only
provided all other requirements are met.
   C.   Other Allowances: No allowance from the above load limits shall be
given for any second rear axle suspended from the frame of the vehicle
independent of the regular driving axle, commonly known as a rigid trail axle.
The load distribution on any one axle of a vehicle shall be such that it will
not load the tires on said axle in excess of the load limits specified.
   D.   Exceptions: School buses, transit buses, city/county maintenance
vehicles, emergency vehicles, and motor trucks transporting perishable
commodities or commodities necessary for the health and safety of local
residents shall be allowed by special permit issued by the director. (Ord. 160,
3-20-2007)
7-5-5: EMERGENCY CLOSURE:
During the period of January 1 through December 31 of any calendar year, when
posted with notice of such closure, city streets may be closed to all vehicles,
upon determination by the director that by reason of rain, snow, climatic or
other conditions, such restriction is necessary to prevent serious damage or
destruction to the road. Exceptions to such closure may be authorized by
special permit only. (Ord. 160, 3-20-2007)
7-5-6: EMERGENCY RESTRICTIONS:
The following weight restrictions shall apply to city streets when posted with
notice of such emergency restrictions when determined by the director that such
restrictions are necessary to prevent damage or destruction of the roadway:
   A.   Load Limit Per Tire: Load limit per tire is the weight in pounds
allowable per inch of rated tire tread as designated on the tire sidewall
multiplied by the tire width in nominal inches as shown thereon or as converted
from metric designation to the nearest one-half inch (1/2") as shown on the
following table:
 
Tire Size; Nominal Inches   Allowable Weight Per Inch Of Rated Tread Width
 
Less than 9 inches (225 mm) 225 pounds per inch
9 inches or over (225 mm)   250 pounds per inch
10 inches or over (250 mm)  275 pounds per inch
 
The conversion factor for metric tread widths to inches of tread shall be
metric times 0.04 equals inches.
   B.   Front Axle Allowance: An allowance of ten percent (10%) above the
allowable weight as indicated on the table will be given for front axles only
provided all other requirements are met.
   C.   Other Allowances: No allowance from the above load limits shall be
given for any second rear axle suspended from the frame of the vehicle
independent of the regular driving axle, commonly known as a rigid trail axle.
The load distribution on any one axle of a vehicle shall be such that it will
not load the tires on said axle in excess of the load limits specified.
   D.   Exceptions: School buses, transit buses, city/county maintenance
vehicles, emergency vehicles, and motor trucks transporting perishable
commodities or commodities necessary for the health and safety of local
residents shall be allowed by special permit issued by the director. (Ord. 160,
3-20-2007)
7-5-7: EMERGENCY BRIDGE RESTRICTIONS:
During the period of January 1 through December 31 of any calendar year, when
posted with notice of such closure, city bridges may be closed to all vehicles
weighing over ten thousand (10,000) pounds' gross weight, upon determination by
the director that by reason of rain, snow, climatic or other conditions such
restriction is necessary to prevent serious damage or destruction to the
bridge. (Ord. 160, 3-20-2007)
7-5-8: SIGNAGE:
The city shall post and maintain signs which identify the weight restrictions
imposed on the use of city streets. This chapter shall not be effective until
such signs are erected and maintained. (Ord. 160, 3-20-2007)
7-5-9: SPECIAL PERMITS:
Upon application to the director with a showing of good cause, a special permit
may be issued authorizing the applicant to operate, move or park a vehicle
exceeding the maximum weight limit set forth in section
7-5-4 or
7-5-6 of this chapter. Special permits may be issued provided the city street
has been designed and constructed for such weight, for any shipment duly
certified as necessary by military officials or by officials of public or
private utility facilities or when in the opinion of the director the movement
or action is necessary to provide a benefit or convenience to residents and
property owners within the city. Application shall be made in writing on forms
provided by the city and shall be submitted at least twenty four (24) hours in
advance of the proposed movement. At a minimum, the application shall contain
the name, address and phone number of the owner of the vehicle, the place where
the vehicle will be moved including an identification of the city street(s), a
description of the vehicle including its certified weight and an agreement to
pay for all damage done to the city streets by such vehicle. Fees for a special
permit shall be set by city council resolution. (Ord. 160, 3-20-2007)
7-5-10: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE TO CITY STREETS:
Any person operating a vehicle or moving any object upon a city street is
liable for all damages to the city street and all related structures caused by
any illegal operation of the vehicle or the movement or parking of a vehicle
weighing in excess of the allowed limits. This section applies to any person
operating a vehicle or moving an object in any illegal or negligent manner
without a special permit.
Any person operating any vehicle is liable to the city for any damage to city
streets or related structures caused by the negligent operation of the vehicle.
When the operator is not the owner of the vehicle, object or attachment but is
operating or moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, the
owner and the operator are jointly and severally liable for any such damage.
Damage to any city street may be recovered through civil action instituted in
the name of the city. (Ord. 160, 3-20-2007)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC PARKS
ARTICLE A. PARKS AND TRAIL FACILITIES USE
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Purpose
8-1A-2: Definitions
8-1A-3: General Regulations
8-1A-4: Special Events (Rep. by Ord. 302, 1-16-2024)
8-1A-5: Rules Governing Use Of Facilities
8-1A-6: Violation; Administrative Sanctions
8-1A-1: PURPOSE:
The city's open space, trails or parks including facilities and programs of the
city are established and maintained by the city for public recreation purposes.
(Ord. 115, 6-17-2003)
8-1A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used in this article:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES OR LIQUOR:         As defined in RCW 66.04.010 and shall
                                       include alcohol, spirits, wine and beer.
CITY:                                  The city of Liberty Lake, Washington.
DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEE:                   A duly appointed city of Liberty Lake
                                       parks department employee.
DIRECTOR:                              The city administrator or designee.
                                       Any building, equipment, sign, material,
                                       shelter, water features or other
                                       physical property including, but not
FACILITY OR FACILITIES:                limited to, administered trees, shrubs,
                                       plants, lawns, play equipment, benches,
                                       tables, picnic areas, athletic fields,
                                       trails, parking areas for motor vehicles
                                       or structures owned by the city.
                                       Any self-propelled device capable of
                                       being moved upon a road, and in, upon or
                                       by which any persons or property may be
                                       transported or drawn, and shall include,
MOTOR VEHICLE:                         but not be limited to, automobiles,
                                       trucks, motorcycles, motor scooters,
                                       jeeps or similar type four (4) wheel
                                       drive vehicles and snowmobiles, whether
                                       or not they can be legally operated upon
                                       the public highways.
OPEN SPACE, TRAILS OR PARKS            Any recreation or similar property under
(Collectively Referenced As City Parks the ownership, management or control of
Or Park):                              the city.
PERSON:                                Any individual, group, firm,
                                       partnership, corporation or club.
                                       Any path, track or right of way designed
                                       for use by pedestrians, bicycles or
TRAIL:                                 other nonmotorized modes of
                                       transportation. (Ord. 115, 6-17-2003;
                                       amd. Ord. 115C, 6-6-2023)
 
8-1A-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Hours Of Operation For General Use: Unless otherwise established by the
city council or their designee, city parks shall be open at dawn and closed for
use at dusk.
   B.   Sale Of Goods Or Services: The sale of goods or services in city parks
or facilities shall be allowed only through written agreement with the city.
The city reserves the right to limit vendors for organizations who reserve a
city park for a special event. (Ord. 115, 6-17-2003)
8-1A-4: SPECIAL EVENTS:
         (Rep. by Ord. 302, 1-16-2024)
8-1A-5: RULES GOVERNING USE OF FACILITIES:
The city administrator or designee may develop rules, policies and forms to
implement this article. All adopted rules, policies and forms shall be filed
with the city clerk.
   A.   Class I Civil Infractions: Any person violating any provision of this
subsection shall have committed a class I civil infraction:
      1.   Fires: No person shall ignite or maintain any fire or participate in
igniting, maintaining or using any fire within a city park except in a
designated barbecue unit or in a designated fire pit unless authorized by the
city.
      2.   Washing Clothes Or Animals: No person shall wash any clothing or
other articles for personal or household use or any dog or other animals in
city parks.
      3.   Horseback Riding: Horses are not permitted in any park, trail area
or facility without a special events permit.
      4.   Littering: Littering in city parks and facilities is prohibited. All
waste, including food waste and garbage, shall be disposed of in a garbage can
or other receptacle designed for such purpose.
      5.   Motor Vehicles
         a.   On Park Property: No person shall operate any motor vehicle on
open space, trail or park property unless such area has been specifically
designated and posted for such use. No person shall operate a motor vehicle
within the boundaries of a city park except on roads, streets, highways,
parking lots, parking areas or where otherwise permitted by posting of notice.
This subsection shall not apply to golf carts, handicapped vehicles, emergency,
maintenance or authorized vehicles. All vehicles shall obey the rules of the
road.
         b.   Parking: No operator of any motor vehicle, trailer, camper, boat
trailer or other vehicle, shall park such vehicle in any facility except where
the operator is using the area for the designated recreational purpose and the
vehicle is parked either in the designated parking area, or in another area
with the permission of a city employee. No person shall park, leave standing or
abandon a vehicle in any facility after closing time except persons using park
facilities as part of an event authorized by the city. Any vehicle found in
violation of this subsection may be towed away at the owner’s expense. This
subsection shall not apply to maintenance and emergency vehicles or vehicles
authorized by the city.
         c.   Speed Limits: No person shall drive a motor vehicle within a city
park at a speed greater than posted, having due regard for traffic, surface and
width of the road, and in no event at a speed which endangers the safety or
persons, property or wildlife.
         d.   Washing Vehicles: No person shall clean, wash or perform any
motor vehicle maintenance in any city park or facility.
      6.   Parking Lots And Roadway Games: Games of any kind are prohibited in
parking lots and roadways.
      7.   Pets:
         a.   Dogs, pets or domestic animals are not permitted on any
designated picnic area, tennis courts or play area in a city park or in any
building unless specifically permitted by posting. This subsection shall not
apply to animal guide dogs.
         b.   Dogs or other pets or domestic animals must be kept on a leash no
greater than fifteen feet (15') in length, and under control at all times.
         c.   Any person whose dog or other pet is in any open space, trail or
park area shall be responsible for the conduct of the animal and for removing
feces deposited by such animal.
         d.   No person shall allow his dog or other pet or domestic animal to
bite, disturb or harass any facility users, wildlife or other pets. No person
shall permit his dog or other pet or domestic animal to bark or make noise
continuously or otherwise unreasonably disturb the peace and tranquility in
city parks. No person shall permit dogs, pets or domestic animals to damage,
destroy or remove park vegetation.
      8.   Presence When City Facilities Closed: No person shall enter or be
present in any city park or facility when closed except persons using area
facilities as part of an event authorized by the city.
      9.   Skateboards And Rollerblades: No person shall be permitted to
skateboard or rollerblade in park facilities unless otherwise designated by the
city.
      10.   Sound Amplification: No person shall use, operate or play in any
open space, trail or park area, any radio, tape player, disc player,
television, musical instrument, record player or any other machine or device
producing sound at a volume that is audible at a distance of over thirty feet
(30') therefrom except pursuant to a permit issued by the department.
      11.   Water Recreation: Water play shall only be permitted in the water
features.
      12.   Tents And Shelters: Unless authorized by the city, no person shall
erect, maintain, use or occupy a temporary tent or shelter in a city park or
facility unless there is an unobstructed view through such tent or shelter from
at least two (2) sides; provided, however, that nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to authorize overnight camping.
      13.   Trail Use:
         a.   For the purposes of this subsection “trail” shall be construed to
include all forms of movement or transportation on a trail, including, but not
limited to, foot, bicycle, horse, skateboard, roller skates and rollerblades.
         b.   Trails are open to all nonmotorized users unless otherwise
designated and posted. Trail restrictions may be posted at park entrances,
trailheads or, in some cases, on individual trails.
         c.   Every person traveling on a trail shall obey the instructions of
any official traffic control device or trail sign unless otherwise directed.
         d.   Motorized vehicles shall be allowed on city trails. For the
purposes of this section “motorized vehicles,” means any form of transportation
powered by an internal combustion or electric motor including golf carts. This
subsection also applies to wheelchairs powered by electric motors, or
authorized maintenance, police or emergency vehicles.
      14.   Trespassing: No person except an authorized city employee, or other
person duly authorized, shall enter or go upon any area which has been
designated and posted as a “no admittance” or “no trespassing” area or during
any time during which city parks are closed to the public.
   B.   Misdemeanor: Except for subsection B1 of this section, any person
violating any of the rules set out in this subsection shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
      1.   Alcohol Consumption:
         a.   Permit Or License Required: No person shall knowingly allow,
conduct, hold, maintain or participate in a gathering of persons on open space,
trails or parks where alcoholic beverages are possessed by individuals and/or
provided by a host and consumed at said place without first obtaining a permit
or special occasion license pursuant to Revised Code Of Washington 66.20.010 or
Revised Code Of Washington 66.24.380 and authorization from the city or
designated official.
         b.   Applications: Application for permits shall be in writing and
filed with the city. Application shall be filed no less than ten (10) days
prior to the gathering at which alcoholic beverages will be consumed. Fees for
such permits shall be established by city council resolution. The city shall
prescribe the form of the application which shall include name and age of
applicant, public place where permit is to be used, type of activity, date of
activity, measures to control the consumption of alcoholic beverages and such
other matters as deemed appropriate by the city.
      The city administrator or designee shall review and approve the
application within five (5) days from receipt. The city administrator or
designee may impose reasonable conditions upon the permit. A denial by the city
administrator may be appealed to the city council within ten (10) days from the
date of the denial.
         c.   Violation And Penalty: Revised Code Of Washington 66.44.100
prohibits the consumption of liquor in a city park. A violation of this state
law is a class 3 civil infraction under Revised Code Of Washington chapter
7.80. For purposes of Revised Code Of Washington 66.44.100 a person found to
have committed a violation of Revised Code Of Washington 66.44.100 shall be
assessed a fine not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00), unless otherwise amended
by state law.
      2.   Damage To Property: No person shall remove, damage or destroy any
part of a city park or facility.
      3.   Damage To Wildlife: It is unlawful in any city park to capture,
attempt to capture, tease, annoy, disturb or strike any bird or animal, or to
throw or otherwise propel any object at or in the vicinity of any bird or
animal.
      4.   Dumping In Water Prohibited: No person shall deposit any waste or
refuse of any nature, including human or animal waste, into any river, stream,
lake or other body of water running in, through or adjacent to city parks.
(Ord. 115, 6-17-2003)
      5.   Firearms, Weapons: No person shall discharge across, in or onto any
facility a firearm, bow and arrow, crossbow, air or gas weapon or any device
capable of injuring or killing any person or animal, or damaging or destroying
any public or private property. This subsection shall not apply where the city
issued a special event permit for such activity. (Ord. 115, 6-17-2003; amd.
Ord. 115-B, 11-19-2013)
      6.   Fireworks: No person shall possess, discharge or cause to be
discharged in city parks or facilities any firecracker, torpedo, rocket,
firework, explosive or similar device.
      7.   Interference With Trails: No person shall place, deposit or
otherwise locate any object, structure or device, whether natural or
artificial, that threatens or endangers any trail, or that threatens or
endangers any person traveling thereon. This subsection shall not apply to city
employees in the performance of their duties or to persons acting pursuant to
written direction of the city.
      8.   Outside Household Or Commercial Wastes: No person shall bring in or
deposit household or commercial garbage, refuse, waste or rubbish which is
brought in such form from any private property, in any city park or facility
garbage can or other receptacle.
      9.   Removal Of Property: No person shall remove any city property from
city parks or facilities without the permission of the city.
      10.   Solicitation: No person shall solicit, sell or peddle any goods,
services, food or drink, or distribute or post any handbills, circulars or
signs, or use any loudspeaker or other amplifying device, in any city park
except by contract or by permit issued by the city.
      11.   Waste From Vehicles: No person shall drain or dump refuse or waste
from any trailer, camper, automobile or other vehicle in any city park or
facility. (Ord. 115, 6-17-2003; amd. Ord. 115C, 6-6-2023)
8-1A-6: VIOLATION; ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS:
   A.   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this article, any person
violating any provisions of sections
8-1A-3 and
8-1A-4 of this article shall have committed a class I civil infraction.
   B.   In addition to any prescribed penalty, any person failing to comply
with any provision of this article shall be subject to the loss of park or
recreation facility use privileges. (Ord. 115, 6-17-2003)
ARTICLE B. APPEARANCE AND MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
8-1B-1: Park Appearances
8-1B-2: Minimum Maintenance Standards
8-1B-3: Damage, Hazards And Safety
8-1B-4: Checklists
8-1B-5: Administration And Enforcement
8-1B-1: PARK APPEARANCES:
All public parks owned by a government entity within the city shall be
maintained in such a way as to not adversely detract from the properties in the
surrounding areas. The turf grass areas should be neatly kept and similar in
appearance to the surrounding neighborhoods. Planting beds shall be kept weed
free and vegetation shall be kept in a healthy growing condition. Recreational
facilities and equipment shall be maintained to provide for clean, safe and
functional use. (Ord. 90, 5-21-2002)
8-1B-2: MINIMUM MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
The following standards govern public park maintenance. The standard weekly
maintenance season shall run from March through October, as weather permits.
All work involving power equipment shall occur only between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on weekdays. Mowing should be
performed during nonpeak usage times.
   A.   Turf: Mow and edge lawn areas approximately one time per week, or as
needed to maintain an even, well groomed appearance.
      1.   Turf areas used as athletic fields should be maintained at one inch
(1") to one and one-half inches (11/2") in height, but height shall never
exceed five inches (5").
      2.   All other turf areas should be maintained at least one and one-half
inches (11/2") to two inches (2") in height, but height shall never exceed five
inches (5").
      3.   Visible lawn clippings shall be removed and disposed of off site.
The use of mulching mowers which cut clippings into small pieces that sift down
into the lawn shall be encouraged.
      4.   All turf around posts, fences, trees, valve boxes, etc., shall be
maintained by mechanical or where necessary, by preemergent/postemergent
methods. All turf areas shall be edged at sidewalks, curbs, and landscape beds.
      5.   Turf areas shall be kept in a healthy, vigorous condition, free of
disease and pests. Weeds shall be controlled in lawn areas as noted in
subsection C of this section. Fertilizer shall be applied as provided in
subsection E of this section.
   B.   Trees, Shrubs, Vines And Ground Cover Beds: Maintain as needed to
provide for an overall neat appearance, based on the following standards:
      1.   Trees:
         a.   Trees shall be maintained in a healthy, vigorous growing
condition, free from disease and pests.
         b.   Trees should be pruned only to remove dead, diseased, broken,
dangerous or crossing branches, and as required in this subsection.
         c.   Trees should be pruned only in appropriate months as determined
by an arborist. Pruning shall be in accordance with generally accepted
standards for proper pruning.
         d.   All cuts shall be painted immediately with a black, asphalt-base
antiseptic tree paint ("tree heal" or equal).
         e.   All tree trimmings shall be discarded off site using a legal
method.
         f.   Tree stakes should be removed from trees when the trunks are
larger than two inches (2") in caliper and the trees are able to support
themselves. Stakes shall be removed from site and disposed of by a legal method
or recycled.
         g.   All deciduous trees shall be pruned once a year to encourage a
high branching structure. All nonstructural branches shall be removed between
the ground and a point half the tree's total height, not to exceed twenty feet
(20'). Exception: trees planted for screening purposes, such as those at rear
perimeters of many sites shall not be pruned except as needed to remove dead,
diseased, broken, dangerous or crossing branches.
         h.   The cutting blades on pruning shears, clippers, blades, saws,
etc., shall be sterilized after pruning each tree to minimize the possibility
of spreading disease. When pruning trees known or suspected to be diseased,
cutting blades shall be sterilized after each cut.
An acceptable method for sterilizing blades is dipping them in a solution of
one part bleach and nine (9) parts water or heavily spraying them with a
disinfectant spray, such as Lysol. After dipping or spraying, wait twenty (20)
seconds before using again.
         i.   A vertical clearance of fourteen feet (14') shall be required
above all parking spaces. A vertical clearance of eight feet (8') shall be
required above all walkways. Trees shall be trimmed to remove all limbs within
these areas.
         j.   Trees shall have a base well free of weeds and other vegetation
that would prohibit water from reaching the root system.
      2.   Shrubs And Vines:
         a.   Shrubs and vines shall be kept in a healthy, vigorous condition,
free from disease and pests.
         b.   Shrubs shall be pruned as needed to remove branches that are
dead, broken, extending beyond the face of curbs or sidewalks or are climbing
building walls (unless they are intended to climb the wall, such as climbing
vines). Formal hedges and topiary shall be regularly pruned to maintain a
uniform height and width. Except as previously noted, shrubs should be allowed
to grow unpruned to their natural sizes.
         c.   Shrubs uniformly planted in rows, where it is clear the intent
was to create a hedge, shall be pruned so as to encourage a hedge. Shrubs in
hedges shall be encouraged through pruning to form a dense, continuous, hedge,
branching fully to the ground. All other shrubs shall be pruned only as
required for safety, visibility and plant health, and allowed to develop into
the natural shapes expected of the plant variety.
         d.   Shrubs shall be allowed three (3) months to rejuvenate following
a hard frost prior to pruning or replacing.
         e.   The cutting blades on pruning shears, clippers, blades, saws,
etc., shall be sterilized between every three (3) shrubs to minimize the
possibility of spreading disease. When pruning shrubs known or suspected to be
diseased, the cutting blades shall be sterilized after each cut. An acceptable
method for sterilizing blades is dipping them in a solution of one part bleach
and nine (9) parts water or heavily spraying them with a disinfectant spray,
such as Lysol. After dipping or spraying, wait twenty (20) seconds before using
again.
      3.   Ground Cover:
         a.   Ground cover shall be maintained in a healthy, vigorous growing
condition.
         b.   Ground cover shall be trimmed back from sidewalks, curbs and
paved areas on a weekly basis or as needed. The edges shall be cut at an angle
for a more natural appearance and healthier plants.
      4.   Mulch/Rock Layer:
         a.   Soil mulch and/or rock layer shall be cared for as needed to
create and maintain an even and uniform appearance over the visible soil
surface of each planter area.
         b.   A layer no less than two inches (2") deep at all times shall be
maintained in shrub planters. Mulch and/or decorative rock shall not be
required in areas where plant foliage completely covers the soil surface, such
that the soil is not visible through the foliage.
         c.   Any mulch or decorative rock found outside planter areas shall be
returned to the planter on a weekly basis.
         d.   Mulch and/or decorative rock shall be uniform in color and
appearance, and free of leaves, sticks or trash. Mulch may be chipped or
shredded wood, bark or decorative rock. When replacing existing mulch, the
mulch product shall be similar in appearance to that already at the site.
Replacement rock shall be the same size and color as existing decorative rock
on site. In the event no rock is existing, the decorative rock used shall have
a maximum diameter of three-fourths inch (3/4") and a minimum diameter of
three-eighths inch (3/8").
   C.   Weed Control: Weeds in planted areas, sidewalks, curbs, gutters or
pavement shall be removed or killed weekly as the weeds emerge. Weeds shall be
removed (not just killed) if they are larger than two inches (2") in height or
diameter. Disposal of weeds shall be off site. Preemergent and postemergent
herbicides may be used if necessary to maintain appearance. Regular maintenance
of the mulch or decorative rock layer shall be encouraged to help minimize
weeds in shrub and ground cover areas.
   D.   Chemicals, Herbicides, Pesticides:
      1.   All chemicals shall be used in accordance with label directions and
the manufacturer's recommended handling methods. All chemicals shall be handled
in accordance with all applicable regulations. Registered chemicals shall be
used only on the advice of a qualified, licensed, pest control advisor. Nothing
in this specification shall be construed to be the advice of, or to substitute
for the advice of, a pest control adviser.
      2.   Pesticides shall not be applied within one hour of the start of
operating hours for the site. In the event that it is not possible to complete
the application by one hour prior to normal operating hours (i.e., 24 hour
operations), applications shall be made at times when customer presence is
minimal. Areas to be treated shall be blocked off and warning signs posted.
      3.   Precautions shall be taken to keep persons away from pesticide and
herbicide treated areas until the applied material is fully dry and the treated
area is safe for entry. The recommendations of the pesticide manufacturer, and
all applicable governmental and industry regulations, shall be followed.
   E.   Fertilizer:
      1.   Fertilizer shall be applied in a manner consistent with best
management practices at a rate specified by manufacturer for specific
application.
      2.   Fertilizing should be done, at least, twice a year (spring and
fall).
      3.   Foliar applied fertilizer shall be water soluble and non- burning.
Formulation shall have a minimum phosphorous content. Apply at manufacturer's
maximum recommended concentration for plant type. Granular fertilizer shall be
applied at maximum label rate for plant type at a forty (40) day interval.
Water shall be applied immediately after fertilizer application to move the
fertilizer into the soil and wash the fertilizer off of plant surfaces.
      4.   Granular fertilizers shall be applied to drip irrigated areas only
in early spring, just prior to a moderate rainfall. The fertilizer must be
washed in by hand or rainfall before turning on the drip system. Running the
drip system immediately after application will push the fertilizer away from
the emitters and cause high concentration at the edge of the wetted area which
can damage plants.
      5.   Fertilizers used in parks located within the Liberty Lake watershed
shall be phosphate free or a formula accepted by the Liberty Lake sewer and
water district.
   F.   Cleaning And Litter Removal:
      1.   Walks, curbs, parking areas and gutters shall be swept or blown off
weekly and all trash, litter and debris shall be collected and disposed of.
      2.   Trash, leaves, clippings or landscape debris shall not be blown or
swept into planters or onto adjacent property. All debris swept or blown from
landscape areas should be collected and removed from the site.
      3.   Blowers shall not be used around parked vehicles in order to avoid
scratching vehicle paint with blowing sand and debris. All litter shall be
removed from sidewalks, gutters and all planted areas each week. In no case
shall trash, litter or leaves be blown or swept onto the property of others.
All trash, litter, leaves, etc., shall be collected, hauled away and disposed
of legally.
   G.   Irrigation:
      1.   Water Application And Scheduling:
         a.   Irrigation shall be made by the use of permanent irrigation
systems. Hand water as needed to supplement the permanent system.
         b.   The irrigation system should be examined for damage or
malfunction weekly.
         c.   Watering times should be adjusted each week to provide adequate
water to vegetation; however, the use of water conservation shall be
encouraged. Multiple start times and short run times shall be used to prevent
runoff and over watering. Drip systems should be left on for sufficient time to
allow for saturation of the root zone and multiple start times should be
avoided.
         d.   All turf and plant materials shall be maintained in a healthy
condition and hand watering should be used temporarily when necessary due to a
system malfunction.
      2.   Irrigation System Scheduled Maintenance:
         a.   Each valve zone shall be observed for signs of damage and proper
operation on a weekly basis during the irrigation season.
         b.   Cleaning and flushing of the system shall be performed yearly or
more often as needed.
         c.   The use of a certified backflow prevention device is required on
all irrigation systems.
         d.   Drip systems shall be flushed at least once a year and allowed to
run for at least fifteen (15) minutes with the ends open at full flow to flush.
Runoff of water from irrigation systems into or onto streets, sidewalks, stairs
or gutters is not permitted. The system shall immediately be shut down and
adjustments, repairs or replacements made as soon as possible to correct the
source of the runoff. (Ord. 90, 5-21-2002)
8-1B-3: DAMAGE, HAZARDS AND SAFETY:
Any turf or plant material found to be dead or missing shall be replaced
immediately with a healthy plant material of identical species and equivalent
size, unless otherwise permitted. Anything on the site that is found to be
hazardous shall be corrected or removed immediately. At no time shall work be
performed or materials installed in any location or manner which may endanger
the health, safety or welfare of the public now or in the future. Anyone
performing work in parks or open spaces shall comply with all rules,
ordinances, regulations, etc., as set forth by the city.
   A.   Replacement trees, shrubs, vines and ground covers shall be properly
installed, including staking if applicable, and fertilized upon installation.
   B.   If irregular foot traffic through a planter is preventing a ground
cover from reaching full coverage of the soil, the foot traffic should be
reduced through the installation of pavers, stepping stones, a concrete walk, a
gravel path and/or barriers to redirect the pedestrians.
   C.   Any lawn found to be dead or severely yellowed shall be replaced with
plant material of identical species. Replacement sod shall be similar in all
respects to the existing grass. Seed shall not be used unless otherwise
specified.
   D.   Any replacement of irrigation system components shall be made with
materials of the same manufacturer and model as the original equipment.
Substitutions of materials other than original equipment will be approved only
when the original equipment has been discontinued and is no longer available
for purchase at any location. The substituted equipment shall be completely
compatible with the original. All repairs to the system shall be identical to
the original installation, unless otherwise specified. Changes to the
installation which will result in lower future maintenance costs, less frequent
breakage or an increase in public safety, shall be encouraged.
Sprinklers on risers above the ground level shall not be installed, even if the
risers are flexible. Spring operated, popup style sprinkler heads shall be
used.
      1.   The entire irrigation system shall be checked weekly for items such
as dry spots/over watering and missing or malfunctioning irrigation components,
such as leaking valves, water running across sidewalks, water standing in
puddles, excessive watering or any other condition which hampers the correct
operation of the system or the public safety. Plant materials shall be observed
for signs of wilting, indicating a lack of water and the irrigation system
shall be adjusted as necessary.
      2.   Plastic sprinkler nozzles with bad patterns shall be replaced with
new nozzles of the same gallonage and arc as part of the regular maintenance of
the sprinkler system, only brass nozzles may be carefully cleaned if needed.
(Ord. 90, 5-21-2002)
8-1B-4: CHECKLISTS:
   A.   A weekly landscape maintenance checklist shall be made available by the
planning and community development department to anyone performing regular
maintenance work in public parks. This checklist shall be reviewed weekly and
all applicable items on the list shall be completed weekly.
   B.   A monthly maintenance checklist shall be made available by the planning
and community development department to anyone performing regular maintenance
work in city parks and open space areas. This checklist shall be reviewed
monthly and all the applicable items listed for the current month shall be
completed prior to the end of the month. (Ord. 90, 5-21-2002)
8-1B-5: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administration: The planning and community development department shall
be responsible for the administration of this article.
   B.   Enforcement: For public parks not owned by the city, failure to adhere
to standards after written warning will result in the necessary maintenance
being completed and the property owner billed the cost of work performed.
   C.   Variances: To promote the sound interpretation and application of the
standards set forth in this chapter, a variance or deviation from any
applicable standard may be sought through the planning and community
development director. A variance request shall identify the property subject to
this chapter, the owner or agent in charge of maintaining the property and a
statement setting forth the variance or deviation from the minimum maintenance
standards set forth in section
8-1B-2 of this article. Standards for exercising discretion in the grant of a
variance or deviation from the maintenance standards shall include, but not be
limited to, a determination that special circumstances, practical difficulties
or other conditions exist which make it impractical or unreasonable to comply
with the maintenance standards. The director of planning and community
development may request information in order to aid or support the
determination of a variance or deviation. The director shall exercise best
efforts in order to make the determination within two (2) business days of the
request. (Ord. 90, 5-21-2002)
ARTICLE C. PARKS, RECREATION, OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS PLAN
SECTION:
8-1C-1: Contents; Adoption
8-1C-2: Administration And Enforcement
8-1C-1: CONTENTS; ADOPTION:
The city of Liberty Lake parks, recreation, open space, and trails plan
containing the following sections is hereby adopted by reference:
   Section I: Introduction
   Section II: The Setting
   Section III: Existing Recreation Facilities
   Section IV: Park Rehabilitation Issues
   Section V: Management And Operations
   Section VI: Recreation Services Section
   Section VII: Park And Facility Needs
   Section VIII: Goals And Objectives
Section IX: Strategies To Address Local, State, And National Concerns
   Section X: Recommendations
   Section XI: Action Plan
   Appendix
(Ord. 185, 10-5-2010, eff. 10-19-2010)
8-1C-2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administration: The community development department shall be
responsible for the administration of this article and projects shall be
reviewed prior to the issuance of any permits or approvals to ensure the
project conforms to the adopted parks, recreation, open space, and trails plan.
   B.   Enforcement: Projects that do not conform to the adopted parks,
recreation, open space, and trails plan shall be subject to the denial of
permits or approvals until the project is brought into conformance. (Ord. 185,
10-5-2010, eff. 10-19-2010)
CHAPTER 2
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Road And Sewer Construction Standards
8-2-2: Sanitary Sewer Connections
8-2-3: Transportation Benefit District
8-2-1: ROAD AND SEWER CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards Adopted: Pursuant to RCW 35.21.180, 35A.11.020 and
35A.21.160, the city hereby adopts by reference the Spokane County standards
for road and sewer construction effective April 3, 2001, which standards are
incorporated herein by this reference as presently constituted or hereinafter
amended as the interim standards for road and sewer construction of the city.
Unless the context requires otherwise, references to Spokane County shall be
construed to mean the city of Liberty Lake and references to county staff shall
refer to the mayor or designee. The city clerk shall maintain one copy on file
of the standards for road and sewer construction adopted by this section.
      1.   Adoption Of Other Laws: To the extent that any provision of the
Spokane County code, or any other law, rule or regulation referenced in the
adopted standards for road and sewer construction is necessary or convenient to
establish the validity, enforceability or interpretation of the standards for
road and sewer construction, then such provision of the Spokane County code, or
other law, rule or regulation is hereby adopted by reference.
      2.   Reference To Hearing Bodies: When the adopted standards for road and
sewer construction refers to planning commissions, board of appeals, hearing
examiner or any other similar body, the city council shall serve in all such
roles, but retains the right to establish any one or more of such bodies at any
time and without regard to whether any quasi-judicial or other matter is then
pending.
   B.   Liability: The express intent of the city is that the responsibility
for compliance with the provisions of this section shall rest with the permit
applicant and their agents. This section and its provisions are adopted with
the express intent to protect the health, safety and welfare of the general
public and are not intended to protect any particular class of individuals or
organizations. (Ord. 54, 8-21-2001)
8-2-2: SANITARY SEWER CONNECTIONS:
Unless otherwise prohibited by law, all persons desiring to dispose of sanitary
sewage, industrial wastewater or other similar liquid waste may only discharge
the same into an available public sewer. The city hereby adopts the definitions
of public sewer and sanitary sewage as set forth in the Spokane County code at
sections 8.03.1750 and 8.03.1770, respectively. Existing on site systems shall
be allowed to exist until a public sewer is available. A public sewer is deemed
to be available according to Spokane County code section 8.03.3040. (Ord. 86,
3-19-2002)
8-2-3: TRANSPORTATION BENEFIT DISTRICT:
The City, pursuant to RCW 35.21.225 and Chapter 36.73 RCW, hereby establishes
and creates a TBD to be known and referred to as the City of Liberty Lake
Transportation Benefit District, subject to the following:
   A.   Establishment of the City of Liberty Lake Transportation Benefit
District - General Authority. There is hereby created the City of Liberty Lake
TBD with geographical boundaries comprised of the corporate limits of the City
as they currently exist or as they may exist following future annexations. The
governing board of the transportation benefit district shall be the Liberty
Lake City Council acting in an ex officio and independent capacity, which shall
have the authority to exercise the statutory powers set forth in RCW 36.73.
   B.   Powers and Operations:
      1.   The City of Liberty Lake TBD shall possess all of the powers of a
transportation benefit district authorized pursuant to RCW 36.73, including
without limitation, the power to fund the district via sales and use tax in an
amount not to exceed one-tenth of one percent (0.1%) for a period of 10 years
upon a majority vote of the governing board as provided for in RCW 36.73.065
and in accordance RCW 82.14.0455.
      2.   Consistent with RCW 36.73.020 the treasurer of the City of Liberty
Lake TBD shall be the City Finance Director. Additionally, the City Attorney
shall serve as legal advisor and other city employees shall carry out the
operations of the City of Liberty Lake TBD.
   C.   Transportation Improvements Funded. The funds generated by the
transportation benefit district shall be used for transportation operations,
maintenance, preservation and improvements as defined in RCW 36.73.015(6) and
including projects contained in City of Liberty Lake’s Capital Facilities Plan.
(Ord. 82, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 297, 9-19-2024)
CHAPTER 3
CITY STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Acceptance Of City Streets
8-3-2: Control Of Streets
8-3-3: Street Classifications
8-3-4: Design Standards
8-3-5: Harvard Road Mitigation Plan
8-3-6: Sidewalk Maintenance
8-3-1: ACCEPTANCE OF CITY STREETS:
The city hereby accepts from Spokane County all plans, surveys, maps and
documents relating to the establishment of the street system within the city.
All such streets are deemed to be city streets under the exclusive jurisdiction
and control of the city. The city shall assume responsibility for all
development, construction and maintenance of the city streets, said streets are
specifically identified as follows:
   City Of Liberty Lake Street Inventory
   All Public Streets
                             Segment
Street Name From To
                                 Segment
Street Name     From                To
Appleway        Simpson             Liberty Lake
Boone           Simpson             Homestead
Broadway        Swing               Broadway Court
Broadway        Garry               Knudson
Cataldo         Simpson             West
Cataldo         Simpson             East
Collen          Knudson             Colleen Court
Colony          Colony Court        Knudson
Corrigan        Mission             Mission vacated
Country Vista   Mission             Simpson
Country Vista   Simpson             Molter
Country Vista   Molter              Mission
Country Vista   Mission             Liberty Lake
Country Vista   Liberty Lake        Carlson
Desmet          Desmet Court        Wright
Desmet          Simpson             Simpson
Drury           Cul-de-sac north    Cul-de-sac south
Eagle           Sinto               Boone
Eagle           Country Vista       Broadway
Etta            Sinto                
Fairway         Fairway Court       Broadway
Fairway         Appleway            Cul-de-sac south
Garry           Garry Court         Broadway
Garry           Broadway            Settler
Garry           Valleyway           Sprague
Harvard         Mission             Old Mission
Harvard         North city limits   I-90 bridge
Henry           Carlson             Sprague
Homestead       Mission             Country Vista
Homestead       Broadway            Knudson
Indiana         Lynden              Harvard
Kelsea          Settler             Kelsea Court
Knox            Swing               Madson
Knudson         Boone               Knudson Court
Knudson         Country Vista       Broadway
Knudson         Homestead           Broadway
Knudson         Valleyway           Riverside
Lakeside        Valleyway           South city limits
Liberty Lake    Spokane River       Appleway
Liberty Lake    Appleway            Sprague
Madson          Appleway            Mission
Madson          Maxwell             Boone
Madson          Appleway            Knox
Madson          Broadway            Madson Court
Main            Valleyway           Mitchell
Malvern         Mission             Simpson
Maxwell         Malvern             Maxwell Court
Maxwell         Molter              Homestead
Mission         East city limits    Molter
Mission         Molter              Malvern
Mission         Malvern             Country Vista
Mission         Harvard              
Mitchell        Maxwell             Sharp
Mitchell        Mitchell Court      Country Vista
Mitchell        Cul-de-sac dead end Valleyway
Mitchell        Valleyway           Riverside
Molter          Appleway            Sprague
Molter          Appleway            Knox
Old Mission     Corrigan            Harvard
Ormond          Maxwell             Boone
Ormond          Ormond Court        Broadway
Prestwick Place Garry                
Riverside       Garry               Mitchell
Schneidmiller   Garry                
Settler         Country Vista       Liberty Lake
Sharp           Sharp Lane          Fairway
Sharp           Mitchell            Wright
Signal          Appleway            Mission
Simpson         Appleway            Mission
Simpson         Boone               Desmet
Simpson         Desmet              Country Vista
Sinto           Malvern             Fairway
Sinto           Mitchell            Wright
Sprague         Neyland             Liberty Lake
Stevenson       Sinto               Boone
Stevenson       Stevenson Court     Broadway
Swing           Country Vista       Broadway
Valleyway       Lakeside            McKinzie
Wright          Maxwell             Country Vista
Wright          Main                Sprague
 
   City Of Liberty Lake Street Inventory
   Private Streets
                             Segment
Street Name From To
                                Segment
Street Name    From             To
Alki           Village          Olive
Boone          Boone Court      Winchester
Dunbarton Oaks Valleyway        Lancashire
Eaglebend      Country Vista    Tanglewood
King James     King James Court Dunbarton Oaks
Lancashire     Dunbarton Oaks    
Maxwell        Country Vista     
Maxwell        Murray            
Murray         Murray Court     Mission
Oakmont        Country Vista    Country Vista
Olive          Village          Alki
Salishan       Salishan Court   Maxwell
Sawgrass       Oakmont          Country Vista
Sharp          Country Vista    Winchester
Sinto          Sinto Court      Murray
Tanglewood     Knudson          Country Vista
Village        Alki             Olive
Winchester     Winchester Court Maxwell
 
The city recognizes and acknowledges that the streets within the city were
either constructed by a governmental entity or a private party pursuant to
plans and specifications approved by the Spokane County engineer. For those
streets identified below, the city accepts the same with no further obligation
of Spokane County or any other private party:
   City Of Liberty Lake Street Inventory
   Streets To Be Established - Warranty Expired
                             Segment
Street Name From To
                                      Segment
Street Name          From                To
Appleway             Simpson             Liberty Lake
Boone                Simpson             Homestead
Broadway             Swing               Broadway Court
Broadway             Garry               Knudson
Carlson              Country Vista        
Collen               Knudson             Colleen Court
Colony               Colony Court        Knudson
Colt                 Maxwell             Homestead
Corrigan             Mission             Mission vacated
Corrigan             Country Vista        
Country Vista        Mission             Simpson
Country Vista        Simpson             Molter
Country Vista        Molter              Mission
Country Vista        Mission             Liberty Lake
Country Vista        Liberty Lake        Carlson
Desmet               Desmet Court        Wright
Drury                Cul-de-sac north    Cul-de-sac south
Eagle                Sinto               Boone
Eagle                Country Vista       Broadway
Elta                 Sinto                
Fairway              Maxwell             Boone
Fairway              Fairway Court       Broadway
Fairway              Appleway            Cul-de-sac south
Garry                Valleyway           Sprague
Harvard              Mission             Old Mission
Harvard              North city limits   I-90 Bridge
Henry                Carlson             Sprague
Homestead            Mission             Country Vista
Indiana              Lynden              Harvard
Kelsea               Settler             Kelsea Court
Kenny                Liberty Lake        West to L.L. Plaza
Knox                 Swing               Madson
Knudson              Boone               Knudson Court
Knudson              Country Vista       Broadway
Knudson              Valleyway           Riverside
Lakeside             Valleyway           South city limits
Liberty Heights Lane Country Vista        
Liberty Lake         Spokane River       Appleway
Liberty Lake         Appleway            Sprague
Madson               Appleway            Mission
Madson               Maxwell             Boone
Madson               Appleway            Knox
Madson               Broadway            Madson Court
Main                 Valleyway           Mitchell
Maxwell              Malvern             Maxwell Court
Maxwell              Molter              Homestead
Mission              East city limits    Molter
Mission              Molter              Malvern
Mission              Malvern             Country Vista
Mission              Harvard              
Mitchell             Maxwell             Sharp
Mitchell             Mitchell Court      Country Vista
Mitchell             Cul-de-sac dead end Valleyway
Mitchell             Valleyay            Riverside
Molter               Appleway            Sprague
Molter               Appleway            Knox
Old Mission          Corrigan            Harvard
Oldenberg            Remmington          Homestead
Ormond               Maxwell             Boone
Ormond               Ormond Court        Broadway
Pinehurst            Country Vista       Country Vista
Prestwick Place      Garry                
Remmington           Oldenberg           Homestead
Riverside            Garry               Mitchell
Schneidmiller        Garry                
Settler              Country Vista       Liberty Lake
Sharp                Sharp Lane          Fairway
Sharp                Mitchell            Wright
Signal               Appleway            Mission
Simpson              Appleway            Mission
Simpson              Boone               Desmet
Sinto                Malvern             Fairway
Sinto                Mitchell            Wright
Sprague              Neyland             Liberty Lake
Stanford Lane        Country Vista        
Stevenson            Sinto               Boone
Stevenson            Stevenson Court     Broadway
Swing                Country Vista       Broadway
Swing                Appleway            Knox
Valleyway            Lakeside            McKinzie
Whitman Lane         Country Vista        
Wright               Maxwell             Country Vista
Wright               Main                Sprague
 
For those streets identified below, the city accepts the same subject to either
or both the transfer of a developer (performance) bond and a two (2) year
warranty provided by the party constructing the street and associated
improvements. Should any condition or defect develop during the warranty
period, the party constructing the street shall at their sole cost and expense
immediately proceed to remedy the condition or defect in a manner satisfactory
to the city engineer. Upon expiration of the warranty, the city shall be fully
responsible for the condition and maintenance of said streets:
   City Of Liberty Lake Street Inventory
   Streets To Be Established - Two Year Developer Warranty
                             Segment
Street Name From To
                             Segment
Street Name From        To
Cataldo     Simpson     West
Cataldo     Simpson     East
Desmet      Simpson     Simpson
Garry       Garry Court Broadway
Garry       Broadway    Settler
Homestead   Broadway    Knudson
Knudson     Homestead   Broadway
Malvern     Mission     Simpson
Mission*    Molter      Malvern
Simpson     Desmet      Country Vista
 
*Developer to warranty only widened area on south side.
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to maintain for public inspection a
list, map and related files of all streets and associated right of way within
the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 78, 1-8-2002)
8-3-2: CONTROL OF STREETS:
The city shall have the sole right to: a) change or establish the grade of any
city street; b) determine the width, alignment and function for a city street;
and c) determine the amount of right of way necessary for a street including
regulating all uses therein. Upon acceptance of a city street (and expiration
of any applicable warranty, guarantee or bond) the city shall have the right to
maintain all curbs and street surfaces including cleaning, snow removal,
signing and providing traffic control devices and illumination. Streets may be
accepted by the city either through subdivision, plat or binding site plan
approval, dedication or other acceptance and certification by the city
engineer. The city shall have the right to regulate, permit and license all
reasonable uses with the public right of way. (Ord. 78, 1-8-2002; amd. Ord.
78A, 3-3-2020)
8-3-3: STREET CLASSIFICATIONS:
City streets are most effectively classified by their function with respect to
the service they are intended to provide to the public. The primary function of
the street system is to provide mobility and access to and through the
community in a safe and efficient manner. The classification of streets creates
and defines the design, use, volume and capacity of the street. Classification
of the streets also assists in determining the amount of right of way, improved
surfaces and design geometry. The following classifications are general
descriptions with more detailed information set forth in the American
Association of State Highway Transportation Officials (AASHTO) manual. The
classification of city streets is as follows:
   A.   Major Or Principal Arterials: Major arterials provide transportation
corridors for major traffic movements within the city serving major centers of
city activity interarea travel between the city and other urban or suburban
centers. Major arterials carry relatively high volumes of traffic as compared
with other streets within the city. Major arterials are designated for bus
routes and major commercial or industrial centers.
   B.   Secondary Or Minor Arterials: Secondary arterials interconnect and
support the major arterial system providing service to less intensive
development including the distribution of traffic to small geographic areas
other than those identified in the major arterial system. Secondary arterials
distribute traffic from the major arterials to the access streets.
   C.   Access Streets: Access streets provide movement and circulation to and
from residential neighborhoods away from the arterial street system. Access
streets should be designed for low volumes of traffic discouraging excessive
speeds. (Ord. 78, 1-8-2002)
8-3-4: DESIGN STANDARDS:
In the design of city streets, the city shall apply the uniform design
standards adopted by the state design standard committee as far as practicable
with no deviation from the design standards unless approval is received from
the state aid engineer. (Ord. 78, 1-8-2002)
8-3-5: HARVARD ROAD MITIGATION PLAN:
   A.   Plan Adopted: Pursuant to RCW 35.21.180, 35A.11.020 and 35A.21.160, the
city adopts by reference the Spokane County Harvard Road mitigation plan dated
December 1995, which is incorporated herein by this reference as presently
constituted or hereinafter amended as the interim Harvard Road mitigation plan
of the city. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to Spokane
County shall be construed to mean the city of Liberty Lake and references to
county staff shall refer to the mayor or designee. The city clerk shall
maintain one copy on file of the Harvard Road mitigation plan adopted by this
section.
      1.   Adoption Of Other Laws: To the extent that any provision of the
Spokane County code, or any other law, rule or regulation referenced in the
adopted Harvard Road mitigation plan is necessary or convenient to establish
the validity, enforceability or interpretation of the Harvard Road mitigation
plan, then such provision of the Spokane County code, or other law, rule or
regulation is hereby adopted by reference.
      2.   Reference To Hearing Bodies: When the adopted Harvard Road
mitigation plan refers to planning commissions, board of appeals, hearing
examiner or any other similar body, the city council shall serve in all such
roles, but retains the right to establish any one or more of such bodies at any
time and without regard to whether any quasi-judicial or other matter is then
pending.
   B.   Liability: The express intent of the city is that the responsibility
for compliance with the provisions of this section shall rest with the permit
applicant and their agents. This section and its provisions are adopted with
the express intent to protect the health, safety and welfare of the general
public and are not intended to protect any particular class of individuals or
organizations. (Ord. 55, 8-21-2001)
8-3-6: SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Purpose: The city declares it is in the best interests of the citizens
of the city to require the maintenance of sidewalks to keep the same free from
any obstruction, impediment or condition that impairs the safety or use of the
sidewalk.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
    ABUTTING PROPERTY: All property having frontage upon the sides or margins
of any street.
   SIDEWALK: Includes any and all pedestrian structures or forms of improvement
for pedestrians included in the space within the street margin, as defined by a
curb or the edge of the traveled road surface, and the line where the public
right of way meets the abutting property.
   STREET: A public or private roadway which provides the primary means of
access to property.
   C.   Duty To Maintain: When any street is improved with a sidewalk along
either or both sides thereof, the duty to clean and maintain the same shall be
upon the abutting property owner. It shall be the responsibility of the owner
of property abutting upon a public sidewalk to maintain the sidewalk at all
times in a safe condition, by removing snow and ice or any accumulation of
debris, materials or objects where the same endangers or interferes with the
public convenience in the use of such sidewalks. Maintenance shall include
repair and restoration of the sidewalk according to city standards.
   D.   Expense Of Maintenance And Repair: The burden and expense of
maintaining and repairing sidewalks along the side of any street shall be upon
the abutting property owner.
   E.   Penalty For Noncompliance: In addition to any other legal remedy, the
city may issue a class I civil infraction pursuant to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code to a property owner for failure to comply with the
provisions of this section.
   F.   Liability: The express intent of the city is that the responsibility
for compliance with the provisions of this section shall rest with the abutting
property owner. This section and its provisions are adopted for the purpose of
protecting the health, safety and welfare of the general public and not any
particular class of individuals or organizations. (Ord. 123, 12-3-2003)
ARTICLE A. REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Purpose
8-3A-2: Requirement For Street Improvements
8-3A-3: Notice To Property Owners
8-3A-4: Contents Of Reimbursement Agreements
8-3A-5: Application Process
8-3A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to permit the city to participate in the
development of street improvements constructed by private parties and thereby
facilitate the recovery of costs to the private parties and/or the city to the
extent of city participation. (Ord. 129, 7-20-2004)
8-3A-2: REQUIREMENT FOR STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
Prior to the city participating in a reimbursement agreement or establishing a
reimbursement area, the following must be satisfied:
   A.   The street improvement area must be identified through a city plan
(i.e., 6 year street program), identified as a requirement of development
pursuant to the development regulations of the city, be a condition of land use
development or be found to be in the best interests of the city.
   B.   A design plan and itemization of the cost of the improvement shall be
submitted to the city.
   C.   A map showing the location of the project in relation to the benefitted
parcels of property shall be submitted to the city.
   D.   A project cost estimate showing the proposed assessment for each
separate parcel of property within the reimbursement area including any
contributions from governmental entities.
   E.   A list of the property owners within the reimbursement area including
names and mailing addresses.
   F.   An estimate of the funds to be contributed by the city for the
improvement. (Ord. 129, 7-20-2004)
8-3A-3: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS:
If the reimbursement agreement (and accompanying ordinance) will impose an
assessment upon surrounding property owners, the city shall, through registered
mail, provide a notice to all record property owners within the assessment
reimbursement area stating the boundaries of the reimbursement area and the
proposed assessments. The notice shall indicate that upon completion of the
improvement the property owner will be required to pay a proportionate share of
the costs that relate to the benefit received from the constructed improvement.
The property owner shall be informed that there is a right to request a hearing
before the city council within twenty (20) days from the date of notice. The
purpose of the hearing shall be to determine the extent of reimbursement area
and whether the assessed amount is reasonable and appropriate. The
determination of the city council shall be final and binding. (Ord. 129, 7-20-
2004)
8-3A-4: CONTENTS OF REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENTS:
To memorialize city participation, a reimbursement agreement with the developer
(s) shall be executed which will include a legal description, a map and the
assessments within the reimbursement area. The agreement shall provide in part:
a) property owner assessments shall be based upon a prorata share of the costs
of design and construction; and b) payment of assessments will be due upon the
issuance of a city permit authorizing the property owner to construct a
building or improvement upon the subject property that benefits from the
improvement. The reimbursement agreement shall be approved by the city council.
Where the city is a participant in a reimbursement area, the city council
shall, by motion or resolution, authorize city participation in the
reimbursement area and may provide for the recovery of city expenditures from
benefitted property owners to the extent that the property owner receives
benefit from the construction of the improvement. The city shall be responsible
to fund that portion of the improvement that provides a general public benefit.
The reimbursement agreement shall be recorded by the city clerk with the county
auditor within thirty (30) days of its approval by the city council. The final
reimbursement contract filed with the county auditor shall be binding on all
property owners within the assessment area. Any contract for reimbursement from
a property owner may not exceed a term of fifteen (15) years. (Ord. 129, 7-20-
2004)
8-3A-5: APPLICATION PROCESS:
The department of community development shall develop an application process
for the establishment of reimbursement areas with an application fee
established by city council resolution. Such application process for
reimbursement shall include, at a minimum, submittal of construction plans and
drawings prepared by an engineer, an itemization of the costs of the
improvement, a map identifying the proposed boundaries of the reimbursement
area, an estimate of the costs to be recovered from adjoining properties, a
list of the record owners of properties and such other information as deemed
necessary. (Ord. 129, 7-20-2004)
CHAPTER 4
STORM DRAINAGE AND SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
8-4-1: Stormwater Management Guidelines
8-4-2: Utility Established
8-4-3: Purpose
8-4-4: Definitions
8-4-5: Utility Rates And Charges
8-4-6: Exemptions
8-4-7: Enforcement
8-4-1: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT GUIDELINES:
   A.   Guidelines Adopted: Pursuant to RCW 35.21.180, 35A.11.020 and
35A.21.160, the city hereby adopts by reference the Spokane County guidelines
for stormwater management, dated January 1981, with subsequent amendments and
addendums which is incorporated herein by this reference as presently
constituted or hereinafter amended as the interim guidelines for stormwater
management of the city. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to
Spokane County shall be construed to mean the city of Liberty Lake and
references to county staff shall refer to the mayor or designee. The city clerk
shall maintain one copy on file of the guidelines for stormwater management
adopted by this section.
      1.   Adoption Of Other Laws: To the extent that any provision of the
Spokane County code, or any other law, rule or regulation referenced in the
adopted guidelines for stormwater management is necessary or convenient to
establish the validity, enforceability or interpretation of the guidelines for
stormwater management, then such provision of the Spokane County code, or other
law, rule or regulation is hereby adopted by reference.
      2.   Reference To Hearing Bodies: When the adopted guidelines for
stormwater management refers to planning commissions, board of appeals, hearing
examiner or any other similar body, the city council shall serve in all such
roles, but retains the right to establish any one or more of such bodies at any
time and without regard to whether any quasi-judicial or other matter is then
pending.
   B.   Liability: The express intent of the city is that the responsibility
for compliance with the provisions of this section shall rest with the permit
applicant and their agents. This section and its provisions are adopted with
the express intent to protect the health, safety and welfare of the general
public and are not intended to protect any particular class of individuals or
organizations. (Ord. 58, 8-21-2001)
8-4-2: UTILITY ESTABLISHED:
The city hereby establishes a storm and surface water utility to provide for
the development, maintenance and control of storm drainage and surface water
within the city. The city reserves and elects to exercise all power and
authority relating to the construction, acquisition, condemnation, maintenance
and operation of the storm drainage and surface water systems including the
right to establish rates and charges for service.
Recognizing the purpose and functions of the Liberty Lake sewer and water
district, the mayor or designee may coordinate and jointly perform activities
with the Liberty Lake sewer and water district that promote the maintenance,
operation and development of the city storm and surface water drainage utility.
The mayor may adopt rules, policies and programs that relate to joint
activities between the city and sewer district including the review of
development proposals that affect storm or surface water control. (Ord. 88A, 4-
15-2003)
8-4-3: PURPOSE:
The storm and surface water utility is created to promote and protect the
public health, safety and welfare by establishing a comprehensive approach to
storm and surface water management recognizing that the utility will provide
benefits to the real property located within the city. Further, the utility
will assist in protecting the Liberty Lake natural environment by reducing the
likelihood of flooding and erosion by controlling the discharge of storm and
surface water into the ground. (Ord. 88A, 4-15-2003)
8-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
DEVELOPED PARCEL: Any parcel that has been altered from its natural state
including clearing, grading or filling, whether or not that work accompanies
excavation and construction.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A hard surface area, which either prevents or retards the
entry of water into the soil mantle as under natural conditions prior to
development, and/or a hard surface area which causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow different than
the natural conditions prior to development. Common impervious surfaces
include, but are not limited to, rooftops, walkways, patios, driveways, paved
parking lots or storage areas, concrete or asphalt paving, gravel roads, packed
earthen materials and oiled surfaces which similarly impede the natural
infiltration of storm water. Open, uncovered retention/detention facilities
shall not be considered as impervious surfaces.
PARCEL: Any area of land within the city that is identified as a distinct
property by the Spokane County assessor's office, whether or not the parcel is
considered taxable.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip or parcel of land dedicated to the city for public uses
including street, mass transit, bicycle and pedestrian uses as well as
emergency access, utility, drainage, vegetation management, view corridor or
other necessary public uses. (Ord. 88A, 4-15-2003)
8-4-5: UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Utility Charges:
      1.   Storm And Surface Water Utility Charge: There is hereby imposed upon
every developed parcel of property within the city a storm and surface water
utility charge of ten dollars ($10.00) per three thousand one hundred sixty
(3,160) square feet of impervious surface. Utility charges shall be uniform for
the same class of customers or service and facilities. The city hereby
incorporates by reference, as if fully set forth herein, the rates and charges
adopted by Spokane County through resolution 93-155. The rates and charges
provide a method to fund the storm and surface water utility and establish
comprehensive management and administration. The city council may, by
resolution, modify the rates and charges imposed by the utility.
      2.   Drainage Annual Service Charge: There is hereby imposed upon every
homeowner within the drainwater service area for plats within associations of
the subdivisions an annual drainwater service charge of six dollars eleven
cents ($6.11) per lot. The city hereby incorporates by reference, as if fully
set forth herein, the rates and charges adopted by Spokane County through
resolution 99-0060. The rates and charges provide a method to fund the
maintenance of drainwater service areas and to establish comprehensive
management and administration. The city council may, by resolution, modify the
rates and charges imposed by the utility.
   B.   Stormwater Utility Fund: There is hereby established a fund that is to
be known as the stormwater utility fund into which shall be deposited monies
received by the city with expenditures authorized as are properly chargeable to
the fund pursuant to this chapter. Monies in the fund shall be budgeted and
appropriated for purposes consistent with the storm and surface water utility
including reasonably related administrative expenses.
   C.   Billing, Payment And Collection: The city clerk/treasurer shall prepare
and certify a roll identifying the developed parcels and the related utility
charge to be paid. The city may, through agreement with the Spokane County
assessor, arrange for the utility charge to be placed upon the property tax
bills sent to the owners of property within the city. All charges shall be due
and payable on the date that the first property tax installment is due and
payable to Spokane County. Thereafter, accounts shall be deemed delinquent and
shall bear interest at a rate of eight percent (8%) per annum, or at such other
rates as may be authorized by law, computed on a monthly basis from the date of
delinquency until paid in full. All charges and interest received shall be
deposited into the stormwater utility fund.
   D.   Lien For Delinquent Charges: In addition to any other remedies
permitted by law, the city shall have a lien pursuant to RCW chapter 35.67, as
currently enacted or hereafter amended, for all delinquent and unpaid storm and
surface water rates and charges, including interest, against the developed
parcel which is subject to the charge. The lien may be foreclosed pursuant to
RCW chapter 35.67.
   E.   Administrative Adjustments: The mayor or designee may authorize in
writing a refund, credit or adjustment for any rate or charge when it is
determined that an error, miscalculation or mistake has occurred. No refund,
credit or service charge adjustment may be authorized unless brought to the
attention of the mayor or designee within one year of the occurrence of the
error, miscalculation or mistake. In any instance where refund or credit is
authorized, interest on the outstanding amount shall be waived. (Ord. 88A, 4-
15-2003)
8-4-6: EXEMPTIONS:
Low income seniors and disabled persons receiving relief under RCW 84.36.381
shall receive the following partial exemptions from surface water charges:
   A.   All parcels for which a person qualifies for an exemption under RCW
84.36.381(5)(a) shall be exempt from forty percent (40%) of the utility fee.
   B.   All parcels for which a person qualifies for an exemption under RCW
84.36.381(5)(b)(i) shall be exempt from sixty percent (60%) of the utility
fees.
   C.   All parcels for which a person qualifies for an exemption under RCW 84.
36.38 1(5)(b)(ii) shall be exempt from eighty percent (80%) of the utility
fees. (Ord. 88A, 4-15-2003)
8-4-7: ENFORCEMENT:
Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of
this chapter, the city's designee may enter upon premises at reasonable times
to inspect the same provided that if the building or premises be occupied,
identification and a request for entry shall be made. If premises or a building
are unoccupied, all reasonable efforts shall be made to contact the owner or
occupant prior to entry. (Ord. 88A, 4-15-2003)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
8-5-1: Library Created
8-5-2: Authority
8-5-3: Library Finances
8-5-4: Board Of Trustees
8-5-5: Use Of Library
8-5-6: Gifts
8-5-7: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-5-1: LIBRARY CREATED:
The city council of the city of Liberty Lake hereby establishes the Liberty
Lake Public Library. (Ord. 119-B, 1-20-2015)
8-5-2: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Authority Of City Council: The city council shall have the following
authority with respect to the operation and finances of the Liberty Lake Public
Library:
      1.   Through ordinance of the city, adopt a final budget setting forth
the estimated revenues and appropriations for the city of Liberty Lake Public
Library.
      2.   Upon a determination that the best interests of the city of Liberty
Lake are being served, increase, decrease, revoke or recall all or any portion
of the total appropriations provided for Liberty Lake Public Library, provided
the same is done by ordinance approved by a vote of one more than the majority
of the city council.
      3.   Approve contracts related to the public library, including, but not
limited to, the acquisition, sale or disposition of library property unless
otherwise delegated to the mayor.
      4.   Establish the functions, duties and compensation of the city
librarian and employees of the public library.
      5.   Approve all library policies with a simple majority vote.
   B.   Mayor’s Authority: The mayor shall have the following authority with
respect to the administration of the Liberty Lake Public Library:
      1.   Appoint and remove all officers and employees of the public library
including the city librarian, whose appointment shall be without definite term.
      2.   Ensure that all contracts and agreements made with the city on
behalf of the public library are faithfully kept and performed.
      3.   Make transfers between individual appropriations within the library
budget in order to further the best interests of the public library.
      4.   Through the city finance director, pay claims and purchase books,
periodicals, maps, supplies and equipment for the library.
      5.   Through the city finance director, pay wages, salaries, provide
benefits and spend funds to recruit job candidates.
To provide the highest level of library service to the citizens of the city of
Liberty Lake, the mayor and city council, with the advice and recommendation of
the board of trustees, shall exercise their best efforts to negotiate and enter
into interlocal (or other) agreements with public and private library service
providers. (Ord. 119-B, 1-20-2015; amd. Ord. 119-D, 12-5-2023)
8-5-3: LIBRARY FINANCES:
   A.   Annual Budget:
      1.   The overall annual budgetary appropriation for the library shall be
based upon the original fifty cents ($0.50) per thousand allocation of property
tax as permitted by law, as now or hereafter amended. In 2001, fifty cents
($0.50) per thousand represented twenty three point eight percent (23.8%) of
the city’s total property tax levy rate. Said percentage shall be the
percentage used by the city in establishing library funding for future years
subject to the terms set forth in this chapter.
      2.   The 23.8 percent sum shall cover expenses for library operations,
library capital, and administrative support. The library capital and
administrative overhead shall be set at three percent (3%) each of the
anticipated Property Tax revenue for the library as identified in subsection A1
of this section.
      3.   The library staff, City Finance Department and the Board of Trustees
shall be responsible for preparing a five (5) year rolling forecast indicating
the staffing levels, supplies, and capital items that may be needed and to make
recommendations to the City Council to achieve the necessary funding.
      4.   As with all City departments, the City Council shall receive
recommendations concerning library services and funding, but the City Council
shall annually appropriate City funds for the support of the library in the
process of adopting a reasonable budget.
   B.   No Deficit: The Board of Trustees shall not make any expenditures or
incur indebtedness in any year in excess of the amount of money appropriated
and/or available for library purposes.
   C.   Quarterly And Annual Report: At the end of each quarter, the Board of
Trustees shall designate a representative to brief the City Council at its
regularly scheduled meeting on the current state of the library and any
proposed library policy changes. After the second quarter, the Board of
Trustees shall also report to the City Council showing the condition of the
Board of Trustees trust during the prior year, the sums of money received for
the library fund from taxes and other sources, the sums of money expended and
the purposes of the expenditures, the number of books and periodicals on hand,
the number added during the year, the number retired, the number loaned out,
the usage of any computer and technology equipment, and such other statistics
and information and such suggestions as they deem of public interests. The
Board of Trustees shall also file a copy of this report with the state
librarian.
   D.   Municipal Library Change Making Account: The Mayor or designee is
hereby authorized to establish a Municipal Library Fund cash account in the
amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00). This fund is established to facilitate
minor authorized cash transactions for the making of change. The fund shall be
administered by the Mayor, City Treasurer, Municipal Library Director or
designees, in accordance with rules or policies providing for such lawful
administration. (Ord. 119-B, 1-20-2015; amd. Ord. 131-B, 1-22-2019; Ord. 119-D,
12-5-2023)
8-5-4: BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Creation: The Liberty Lake Public Library Board of Trustees is hereby
created. The Board of Trustees shall consist of five (5) individuals. Except as
otherwise provided in this chapter or State law, the management of the Liberty
Lake Public Library shall be vested in the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Appointment: The Board of Trustees shall be appointed by the Mayor and
confirmed by the City Council. All voting members of the appointed Board shall
be residents of the City of Liberty Lake.
   C.   Term: The first appointments to the Board of Trustees shall be for a
term of one, two (2), three (3), four (4) and five (5) years, respectively.
Thereafter, a Trustee shall be appointed annually to serve a term of five (5)
years. No person shall be appointed to the Board of Trustees for more than two
(2) consecutive terms. A Board member after serving two (2) consecutive terms
may apply and receive appointment to a vacated seat, provided that person has
been off the Board for a period of one year.
   D.   Vacancies: Vacancies on the Board of Trustees shall be filled for any
unexpired terms as soon as possible in the manner in which members of the Board
of Trustees are regularly chosen.
   E.   Salary: No member of the Board of Trustees shall be paid a salary or
other compensation for services as Trustee. A member of the Board of Trustees
shall, however, be entitled to reimbursement from the Library Funds of
necessary expenses actually incurred.
   F.   Removal: A member of the Board of Trustees may only be removed by a
majority vote of the City Council of the City of Liberty Lake.
   G.   Powers And Duties: The Board of Trustees shall have the power and duty
to do the following:
      1.   Adopt such bylaws, rules, and regulations for the guidance of the
Board of Trustees and for the use of the Liberty Lake Public Library.
      2.   Adopt/revise Liberty Lake Library policies, subject to Section
8-5-2 A.5.
      3.   Make recommendations to the City Council concerning functions,
authority, compensation and duties of the City Librarian.
      4.   Make a recommendation to the Mayor concerning the appointment of the
City Librarian qualified under Revised Code of Washington 27.04.055.
      5.   Submit annually to the City Council a budget containing detailed
estimates of the amount of money necessary for the library for the ensuing
year.
      6.   Perform any and all other acts necessary for the orderly and
efficient management and control of the library. (Ord. 119-B, 1-20-2015; amd.
Ord. 119-D, 12-5-2023)
8-5-5: USE OF LIBRARY:
   A.   Residents: The Liberty Lake Public Library shall be free for the use of
residents of the city of Liberty Lake, subject to such reasonable rules and
regulations as adopted by the board of trustees to assure the greatest benefit
to the greatest number.
   B.   Nonresidents: The board of trustees may allow nonresidents of the city
of Liberty Lake to use the books belonging to the Liberty Lake Public Library
under such rules and regulations as the board of trustees deems necessary and
upon such terms and conditions as established by the board of trustees. The
form of the agreement for nonresident services shall be approved by the city
council.
   C.   Exclusion From Use: The board of trustees may exclude from the use of
the Liberty Lake Public Library any person who wilfully or persistently
violates any rule or regulation prescribed for the use of the library or its
facilities or any person whose physical condition is deemed dangerous or
offensive to other library users.
   D.   Exchanges: The board of trustees may adopt such rules and regulations
to allow exchanges of books with any other library, either permanently or
temporarily. (Ord. 119-B, 1-20-2015)
8-5-6: GIFTS:
Title to money or property given to or for the use or benefit of the Liberty
Lake Public Library shall vest in the city of Liberty Lake, on behalf of the
Liberty Lake Public Library, to be held and used according to the terms of the
gift. (Ord. 119-B, 1-20-2015)
8-5-7: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Retaining Books: Any person who wilfully retains any book, newspaper,
magazine, pamphlet, manuscript, computer or wireless device, or other property
belonging to the Liberty Lake Public Library for an excess of thirty (30) days
after notice in writing to return the same, when said notice is given after the
expiration of time such article or other property may be kept, shall be guilty
of a class 4 civil infraction.
   B.   Damage To Property: Any person who intentionally injures, defaces or
destroys any property belonging to or deposited in the Liberty Lake Public
Library shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 119-B, 1-20-2015; amd. Ord.
119-D, 12-5-2023)
CHAPTER 6
TREES 1
(Rep. by Ord. 257, 4-2-2019, eff. 4-17-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. Contact the Planning Department for zoning regulations.
CHAPTER 7
STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES FOR CONSTRUCTION WORK AND ACTIVITY
WITHIN CITY RIGHT OF WAY
SECTION:
8-7-1: Definitions
8-7-2: Obstruction Permit Required
8-7-3: Obstruction Permit; Application
8-7-4: Obstruction Permit Fees
8-7-5: Notice Required
8-7-6: Construction Standards
8-7-7: Maintaining Access
8-7-8: Traffic Control
8-7-9: Damage To Existing Improvements
8-7-10: City's Right To Restore Right Of Way And Easements
8-7-11: Bond
8-7-12: Insurance; Evidence
8-7-13: Indemnification And Hold Harmless
8-7-14: Rules And Policy
8-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the following meanings:
APPLICANT: Any person, firm or entity making written application to the
director for an obstruction permit.
CITY: The city of Liberty Lake.
CONSTRUCTION WORK: The excavation or aboveground construction work permitted
under this chapter to install, repair, replace or maintain an improvement or
public infrastructure.
EASEMENT: Any city easement for access or public utilities.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen event or combination of events that requires immediate
action to be taken to repair improvements in the right of way in order to
protect the public health and safety.
IMPROVEMENT: Any public or private improvement, including the property of
public utilities.
MAYOR: Includes a designee. Where decisions or approvals are to be made by the
city, the mayor shall make the decisions or recommendations.
OBSTRUCTION PERMIT (Also Known As A RIGHT OF WAY PERMIT): The authorization
granted by the city to perform work or conduct activity in a specified right of
way or easement.
PERMITTEE: Any person who has been granted and has in full force and effect a
permit issued hereunder.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation or service provider.
PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE: Any necessary construction, performed within the city
right of way or on private property, to install facilities, including streets,
sidewalks, storm drainage, streetlights, sanitary sewers and/or water lines and
necessary appurtenances, as identified in city standards.
RIGHT OF WAY OR PUBLIC WAY: All property in which the city has any form of
ownership or title and which is held for public street or utility purposes,
regardless of whether or not any street or utility exists thereon or whether it
is used, improved or maintained for public use.
STREET: Any street, highway, sidewalk, alley, avenue or other public way,
easement, or other public place in the city. (Ord. 141, 10-4-2005)
8-7-2: OBSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIRED:
An obstruction permit is required of any person who performs construction work
or otherwise engages in an activity within existing or proposed city rights of
way, streets, easements, or on city owned infrastructure. Work done on behalf
of the city requires an obstruction permit. In the case of an emergency, a
private or public utility may commence work prior to obtaining a permit,
provided: a) the city police department is notified and, b) the person obtains
an obstruction permit within forty eight (48) hours after work is commenced or
on the first city business day following the elapsed forty eight (48) hour
period.
No construction work shall be performed by a provider of utility service until
a franchise agreement has been executed by the city. City franchise agreements
may authorize work without an obstruction permit. The city council reserves the
right through franchise agreement to modify, waive or establish new or
different conditions related to construction work. (Ord. 141, 10-4-2005)
8-7-3: OBSTRUCTION PERMIT; APPLICATION:
No obstruction permit shall be issued unless a written application is submitted
and approved by the city. The application shall, at a minimum, contain the
following:
   A.   Construction plans or drawings approved by the city, if required;
   B.   The period of time during which the right of way will be obstructed;
and
   C.   Proof that the contractor and any subcontractor have satisfied all
state licensing and insurance requirements.
Depending upon the nature and extent of the construction activity or work, the
city may require engineering, restoration and drainage plans prepared by a
Washington licensed engineer at applicant's sole cost and expense. (Ord. 141,
10-4-2005)
8-7-4: OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEES:
Obstruction permit fees shall be established by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. 141, 10-4-2005)
8-7-5: NOTICE REQUIRED:
The applicant shall give the city clerk notice not less than forty eight (48)
hours before any work or activity is commenced and shall notify the city clerk
upon completion of the same. In the event of an unexpected repair or emergency,
work may be commenced as required under the circumstances. Unexpected repairs
and emergency work shall comply with all other requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 141, 10-4-2005)
8-7-6: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All work within the city right of way shall be in accordance with adopted city
standards in effect at the time of the application for the permit. These
include, but are not limited to, current versions of the Spokane County
standards for road and sewer construction as adopted by the city; the "Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (MUTCD); Washington state department of
transportation (WSDOT) standard specifications for road, bridge and municipal
construction; and applicable standards of the American Public Works Association
(APWA) ("city standards"). (Ord. 141, 10-4-2005)
8-7-7: MAINTAINING ACCESS:
In the event it is necessary for the permittee to excavate the entire width of
the street, no more than half of the street shall be opened for construction
and closed to traffic at one time. Such portion of the work shall be backfilled
and completed before the remaining portion of the street may be excavated. If
it is impossible, infeasible or unsafe to permit the work while maintaining an
open lane for traffic, the city may, with the concurrence of the chief of
police, permit the street to be blocked for a short period of time where
suitable detours can be provided and the public will not be unnecessarily
inconvenienced. The permittee shall furnish facilities, such as bridges or
other suitable means, or clearly identify appropriate detours, to allow the
flow of traffic without unnecessary congestion. Appropriate signage and traffic
control shall be furnished in accordance with the MUTCD. (Ord. 141, 10-4-2005)
8-7-8: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
Permittee is responsible for all traffic control and assumes the responsibility
to maintain appropriate signage, signals and barricades that protects the
public safety, in accordance with the MUTCD. Permittee shall provide for the
safe operation of all equipment, vehicles and persons within the right of way.
(Ord. 141, 10-4-2005)
8-7-9: DAMAGE TO EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
All damage to existing public or private improvements during the progress of
the construction work or activity shall be repaired by the permittee. Methods
and materials for such repair shall conform to adopted city standards. If the
permittee fails to furnish the necessary labor and materials for such repairs,
the mayor shall have the authority to cause said necessary labor and materials
to be furnished by the city and the cost shall be charged against the
permittee. Such charge shall be immediately paid by permittee and shall, if not
paid on demand, be deemed a valid claim on the bond filed with the city. (Ord.
141, 10-4-2005)
8-7-10: CITY'S RIGHT TO RESTORE RIGHT OF WAY AND EASEMENTS:
If the permittee fails to restore any city right of way or easement to its
original and proper condition upon the expiration of the time fixed by such
permit or shall otherwise fail to complete the right of way construction work
covered by such permit or if the work of the permittee is defective and the
defect is discovered within one year from the completion of the right of way
construction work, the city or designee shall have the right to do all work and
things necessary to restore the right of way and/or easement and to complete
the right of way construction work.
The permittee shall be liable for all costs and expenses of restoration or
completion. The city shall have a cause of action for all fees, expenses and
amounts paid for such work. Following demand, the city may enforce its rights
pursuant to Washington law. No additional permits shall be granted until the
invoice for city performed work has been paid. (Ord. 141, 10-4-2005)
8-7-11: BOND:
For the purpose of providing for the completion of the work or otherwise
restoring the right of way to city standards, applicant shall post a
performance bond with the city clerk. The bond shall be: a) issued by a surety
licensed to do business in the state of Washington and b) in an amount equal to
one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the work (or other
reasonable measure of value) solely determined by the city. If the improvements
have not been timely or satisfactorily completed, the city shall give notice of
the same to permittee. The notice shall state: a) the work to be done; b) the
time to complete the work which shall not exceed thirty (30) days; and c) that
if the work is not commenced and completed within the time allotted, the city
will cause the work to be completed and use the bond proceeds to pay for the
same. All costs in excess of the bond proceeds may be recovered through
appropriate legal action by the city attorney.
A bond may be waived where proof of self-insurance is provided. The city is
authorized to reduce the amount of the bond where good cause exists. (Ord. 141,
10-4-2005)
8-7-12: INSURANCE; EVIDENCE:
Permittee, prior to the commencement of construction hereunder, shall furnish
the city satisfactory evidence in writing that the permittee has in force,
during the performance of the construction work or activity, commercial general
liability insurance of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence and one million dollars' ($1,000,000.00) general aggregate duly
issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state of
Washington. The policy shall name the city as an additional named insured. The
city may reduce the insurance limits if good cause exists. (Ord. 141, 10-4-
2005)
8-7-13: INDEMNIFICATION AND HOLD HARMLESS:
The permittee shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officers,
officials, employees and volunteers from any and all claims, injuries, damages,
losses or suits, including attorney fees, arising out of the permit issued
under this chapter except as may be caused by the negligence or wilful conduct
on the part of the city. (Ord. 141, 10-4-2005)
8-7-14: RULES AND POLICY:
To implement the obstruction permit and provide for the public health and
safety, the city may develop and adopt rules, policies and forms consistent
with this chapter. All adopted rules, policies and forms shall be filed with
the city clerk. (Ord. 141, 10-4-2005)
CHAPTER 8
FRANCHISE TERMS AND CONDITIONS
SECTION:
8-8-1: Scope Of Chapter
8-8-2: Franchise As A Contract
8-8-3: Franchise Term
8-8-4: Franchise Not Exclusive
8-8-5: Subject To Authority
8-8-6: Franchise Application; Initial Franchise And Renewal
8-8-7: Application Fee
8-8-8: Consideration Of Applications
8-8-9: Franchise Acceptance
8-8-10: Franchise Performance Bond
8-8-11: Equality Of Franchise Fees And Costs
8-8-12: Legal Acquisition By Purchase Or Condemnation
8-8-13: Noninterference With City Property
8-8-14: Rights Of Grantee; Location Of Facilities
8-8-15: Construction Approval And Inspection
8-8-16: Special Construction Standards
8-8-17: Time For Start And Completion Of Construction; Termination Of Franchise
8-8-18: Restoration After Construction
8-8-19: Damage And Noncompliance
8-8-20: Protection Of Monuments
8-8-21: Construction Permits Required
8-8-22: Relocation
8-8-23: Vacation
8-8-24: Maintenance
8-8-25: Emergency Response
8-8-26: Emergency Work
8-8-27: Dangerous Conditions; Authority Of City To Abate
8-8-28: Transfer Of Ownership Or Control
8-8-29: Successors To Grantee
8-8-30: Dispute Resolution
8-8-31: Forfeiture Of Rights
8-8-32: Insurance
8-8-33: Grantee To Indemnify City
8-8-34: Extent Of Grantee's Obligations
8-8-35: Franchise Fee
8-8-36: Charge For Administrative Costs
8-8-37: Liquidated Damages
8-8-38: Civil Penalties And Additional Relief
8-8-39: Revocation And Termination
8-8-40: Procedures For Termination
8-8-41: Force Majeure
8-8-42: Records
8-8-43: Public Disclosure Act
8-8-1: SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
The following sections of this chapter are the general franchise terms and
conditions that govern use of the right of way or other public property of the
city by any municipal or private corporation engaged in the public service or
utility business, unless such specific ordinance granting the franchise
expressly provides terms or conditions contrary to those herein contained.
(Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-2: FRANCHISE AS A CONTRACT:
A franchise issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be a
contract between a grantee and the city. The contract (franchise) shall be in
the form of an ordinance and incorporate this chapter, unless otherwise
provided. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and
a franchise issued pursuant hereto, the provisions of this chapter shall govern
unless the franchise clearly states the parties' intent to have the provisions
of the franchise control over the provisions of this chapter. Each party shall
be deemed to have contractually committed itself to comply with the terms,
conditions and provisions of a franchise, and a grantee shall further comply
with all ordinances, written rules, orders and regulations applicable to and
not inconsistent with a franchise. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-3: FRANCHISE TERM:
The term of a franchise shall be specified, but shall not exceed ten (10)
years. It may be renewed once by resolution of the city council for an
additional ten (10) years. After expiration, until notification has been given
by the city, the franchise continues on a month to month basis, until
terminated by a party. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-4: FRANCHISE NOT EXCLUSIVE:
A grant or privilege pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall not be
deemed or held to be an exclusive franchise. It shall in no manner prohibit the
city from granting other franchises of a like nature or franchises for other
public or private utilities over, along, across, under and upon any right of
way or other public property and shall in no way prevent or prohibit the city
using any of said right of way or other public property, or affect its
jurisdiction over them or any part of them, with full power to make all
necessary changes, relocations, repairs, maintenance, etc., of same as the city
deems fit. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-5: SUBJECT TO AUTHORITY:
A grantee shall, at all times during the term of a franchise, be subject to all
lawful exercise of the police power by the city and to such lawful regulations
as the city shall hereafter enact. A grantee shall construct, operate and
maintain all equipment, facilities or other improvements in full compliance
with all other applicable rules and regulations now in effect or hereafter
adopted by the United States, the state of Washington, the city or any agency
of said governments with jurisdiction over said activities. (Ord. 155, 11-7-
2006)
8-8-6: FRANCHISE APPLICATION; INITIAL FRANCHISE AND RENEWAL:
All applications or renewals to construct, operate, or maintain necessary
equipment, facilities and other improvements shall be filed with the director
of community development or designee. To be acceptable for filing, an original
and two (2) copies of the application must be submitted and be accompanied by
the application filing fee established by city council resolution. The fee
shall recover the reasonable expenses of the city that relate to review of the
application or renewal. Each application for an initial franchise shall set
forth the following information. When the application is for the renewal of an
existing franchise, subsections A, B, C, D and F of this section shall be
completed.
   A.   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.
   B.   A detailed statement of the corporate or other business organization of
the applicant.
   C.   A detailed description of all previous experience of the applicant in
providing the intended service which includes a statement identifying, by place
and date, all other franchises awarded to the applicant, its parent or
subsidiary; the status of the franchises with respect to completion; the total
cost of completion of such systems; and the amount of applicant's and its
parent's or subsidiary's resources committed to such systems, unless such
information is on file with the city.
   D.   An indication of whether the applicant, or any person or entity
controlling the applicant has been adjudged bankrupt, had a franchise revoked,
or been found guilty by any court or administrative agency of a violation of a
security or antitrust law, federal or state safety laws or regulations, or any
felony, and, if so, identification of any such person and an explanation of the
circumstances.
   E.   A detailed description of the proposed plan of operation of the
applicant which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A detailed map indicating a proposed time schedule for the
installation of equipment, facilities and other improvements necessary to
become operational, a description of the construction of the proposed system
including an estimate of the above and below ground mileage and the projected
total cost for construction of the system.
      2.   A detailed statement describing the physical facility proposed,
technical design, the actual equipment, and the operational and technical
standards proposed by the applicant.
   F.   Any other information reasonably requested by the city which is deemed
necessary to evaluate the applicant or which could materially affect the
granting of the franchise.
   G.   The city at its discretion may decide to accept less than the
documentation above if it can establish through other sources that the
applicant can meet the technical, financial and legal qualifications to meet
all of the terms and conditions of a franchise and that the applicant is a
competent operator of such systems. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-7: APPLICATION FEE:
   A.   Unless prohibited by applicable law, each application for new
franchise; the renewal of an existing franchise; any sale, assignment, merger,
transfer or change of control; or any request for modification of or any other
relief from the duties and obligations of a franchise shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable application filing fee set by resolution. The fee shall recover
the reasonable expenses of the city that relate to review of the application or
renewal.
   B.   Unless prohibited by applicable law, where the city's actual costs in
considering the application exceed the application filing fee, such costs shall
be paid by the applicant. The city will bill for costs with payment due thirty
(30) calendar days from date of invoice. If invoices are not paid within the
thirty (30) days, the applicant shall be charged and shall pay interest at the
maximum rate per annum on the amount of the unpaid costs. The invoice will
provide the method of calculation, documentation and total amounts due less the
original credit of the application filing fee. The city will submit the final
invoice within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the approval or
denial of the franchise by the city council.
   C.   The time of city employees shall be charged at their respective rates
of pay, including overtime if applicable, plus benefits and a reasonable
overhead ("actual administrative expenses"). Any other costs will be billed
proportionately on an actual cost basis. All billings will be itemized to
specifically identify the costs and expenses for each project for which the
city claims reimbursement. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-8: CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATIONS:
   A.   The city will consider each application for a new or renewed franchise
where the application is found to be in substantial compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and any applicable request for proposals (RFP). In
evaluating an application the city will consider, among other things, the
applicant's past service and safety record in the city and in other
communities, the nature of the proposed facilities and services, proposed area
of service, proposed rates, and whether the proposal would adequately serve the
public needs and the overall interests of the citizens of the city.
   B.   If the city determines that an applicant's proposal for a new franchise
would serve the public interest, it may grant a franchise to the applicant,
subject to additional terms and conditions as agreed upon between the applicant
and the city. No franchise shall be deemed granted unless and until a franchise
agreement acceptable to the parties has been executed. Any such franchise must
be approved by ordinance of the city council.
   C.   Where the application is for a renewed franchise, the city shall
consider whether:
      1.   The applicant has substantially complied with the material terms of
the existing franchise and with applicable law;
      2.   The applicant's use or occupation of the right of way presents an
unreasonable or unacceptable risk to public health, safety or welfare and
whether the applicant's construction, installation, operation or maintenance
practices have been conducted in an unsafe or dangerous manner;
      3.   The applicant has the ability to provide the services, facilities
and equipment as set forth in the application; and
   D.   In the course of considering an application for a renewed franchise,
the city council shall adhere to all requirements of applicable law. In the
event the city makes a preliminary assessment that the franchise should not be
renewed, the city or the city's hearing body shall hold a public hearing or
hearings, in which the grantee seeking renewal shall be afforded a fair
opportunity for full participation, including the right to testify, to require
the production of and to introduce evidence, and to question witnesses. Notice
of any such public hearing shall, at least thirty (30) working days before the
date of the hearing, be published in a local newspaper of general circulation
in the city and be sent by certified mail to each applicant to be considered. A
transcript shall be made of such hearing.
Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of such hearing, the city
council shall issue a written decision granting or denying the proposal for
renewal based on the record of such proceeding. The city shall transmit a copy
of said decision to the applicant. If the proposal is granted, the parties
shall proceed to negotiate the terms and conditions of a renewed franchise. Any
denial of an application for a renewed franchise shall be based on one or more
adverse findings made with respect to the factors described in subsection A of
this section, pursuant to the requirements of applicable law. Neither grantee
nor the city shall be deemed to have waived any right it may have under federal
or state law by participating in a proceeding pursuant to this subsection.
(Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-9: FRANCHISE ACCEPTANCE:
A franchise and its terms and conditions shall be in writing, in a form
acceptable to the city attorney, and shall be executed and filed with the city
clerk within thirty (30) days after the granting of the franchise by the city
council. By accepting a franchise, a grantee declares that it has read the
terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise and accepts all of the
terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise. In accepting a
franchise, a grantee warrants that it has relied upon its own investigation of
all relevant facts, that it had the assistance of counsel, that it was not
induced to accept a franchise, and that it accepts all reasonable risks related
to the franchise.
In the event that the city annexes additional territory, this chapter
automatically extends to right of way within such annexed areas, and all
provisions apply without need for amendment. Any facilities and appurtenances
in streets, alleys, rights of way and public places, incidental to the
franchise system that have been, or are at any future time acquired, newly
constructed, leased or utilized in any manner by grantee are thereupon to be
deemed authorized by and shall be subject to all provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-10: FRANCHISE PERFORMANCE BOND:
Under appropriate circumstances, the grantee may be required to, within thirty
(30) days of the effective date of any franchise granted under this chapter or
within thirty (30) days of the granting of a renewal or the transfer of a
franchise, furnish to the city a performance bond. The performance bond shall
guarantee compliance with the terms and conditions of the franchise and payment
of all sums which may become due to the city under this chapter or franchise
issued pursuant hereto. The performance bond shall be maintained in the full
amount specified in the franchise, throughout the term of the franchise and for
one year after the franchise expires or is terminated, without reduction or
allowances for any amounts which are withdrawn or paid pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-11: EQUALITY OF FRANCHISE FEES AND COSTS:
In the event city charges or imposes upon grantee any fees, taxes or other
costs in connection with the issuance, maintenance, existence, or continuation,
or use of the franchise, or the public rights of way governed hereby, granted
pursuant to this chapter, then city shall impose equivalent charges, fees,
taxes, or costs upon any other franchisee in the same business or competing
with the grantee. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-12: LEGAL ACQUISITION BY PURCHASE OR CONDEMNATION:
The granting of a franchise shall not preclude the city from acquiring by
purchase or condemnation any or all of the equipment, facilities or other
improvements installed by the grantee within the right of way or other public
property within the city by such legal means as would have been available to
such municipality if no such franchise had been granted. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-13: NONINTERFERENCE WITH CITY PROPERTY:
The city shall have prior and superior right to the use of its streets, alleys,
and public properties for installation and maintenance of its property and
improvements for governmental purposes, and should a conflict arise with the
grantee's facilities that affects the interest of public health, safety and
welfare, the grantee shall, at its own expense and cost, unless otherwise
provided by law, relocate its facilities to accommodate such uses and purposes
of the city.
The owners of all utilities, public or private, installed in or on such public
properties prior to the installation of the lines and facilities of the
grantee, shall have preference as to the positioning and location of such
utilities so installed with respect to the grantee. Such preference shall
continue in the event of the necessity of relocating or changing the grade of
any such public properties.
Grantee's system shall be constructed and maintained in such manner as not to
interfere with any public use, or with any other pipes, wires, conduits or
other facilities that may have been laid in the rights of way by or under the
city's authority. In the event a facility location is determined unsuitable,
the director of community development or designee will work with grantee to
identify a new mutually acceptable location. Every effort will be made to
minimize additional cost to grantee as a new location is determined. (Ord. 155,
11-7-2006)
8-8-14: RIGHTS OF GRANTEE; LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
The grantee shall have the right and authority, to the extent expressed in the
franchise, to enter upon the right of way and other public property designated
by said franchise for the purpose of constructing, maintaining and operating
necessary equipment, facilities and other improvements within such property, in
conformity with local, state and federal statutes and regulations now in force
or hereinafter enacted governing such utilities.
Grantee's facilities installed after the date of this chapter shall be located
below the public right of way or public property, in conformance with national,
state and city standards including custom or practice in the city and adjacent
areas. Grantee is authorized to locate, at grade or aboveground, components of
the facilities including, but not limited to, manholes, transformers, junction
enclosures, switches, monuments, signs, associated equipment and facilities and
other structures or improvements as reasonably approved by the city director of
community development or designee. In the event grantee is unable, finds it
impractical or is precluded by law from placing its facilities underground,
such information shall be presented and considered by the city with respect to
the location of grantee's facilities.
Grantee's facilities, as of the date of this chapter, which are located above
the public right of way or public property, in conformance with national, state
and city standards, may be maintained by grantee in their present configuration
and use. Grantee is authorized to modify the facilities as necessary to serve
its customers and protect the public's health and safety. Should the grantee
desire to substantially change the character and use of its facilities, the
parties shall meet, confer and reach agreement on the placement of such
facilities underground. In the event the city and grantee are unable to reach
agreement, this matter shall be subject to section
8-8-30 of this chapter. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-15: CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL AND INSPECTION:
The grantee shall construct and install its equipment, facilities and other
improvements in the right of way or other public property pursuant to plans and
specifications approved by the city and under the supervision and inspection of
a supervisor or inspector provided by the city at the expense of such grantee,
except in instances in which deviation may be allowed in writing by the
director of community development pursuant to application by the grantee. The
city review of plans and specifications and inspections shall be related to use
of right of way or public property.
When appropriate, all plans and specifications shall specify the class and type
of material and equipment to be used, manner of excavation, construction and
installation, backfill, erection of temporary structures, erection of permanent
structures, and the traffic control mitigation measures as provided by the
"Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", or similar standards as may be
applicable from time to time. The plans must conform to all federal, state,
county and city laws, public works standards and regulations, and other
agencies with jurisdiction.
Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, any excavations and
installations by the grantee in any of the public properties within the
corporate limits of the city shall be done in accordance with the ordinances,
regulations, and resolutions of general application now enacted or to be
enacted by the city council, relating to excavations in public properties of
the city, and authorized by the director.
Said ordinances, regulations, authorizations, and resolutions shall be for the
purposes of fulfilling the city's public trustee role in administering the
primary use and purpose of public properties, and not for relieving the grantee
of any duty, obligation, or responsibility for the competent design,
construction, maintenance, and operation of its facilities. Grantee is
responsible for the supervision, condition, and quality of the work done,
whether it is by itself or by contractors, assigns or agencies. With respect to
any excavations within the franchised area undertaken by or on behalf of
grantee or city, nothing herein is intended, nor shall be construed, to relieve
either party of their respective obligations arising under applicable law with
respect to determining the location of utility facilities. (Ord. 155, 11-7-
2006)
8-8-16: SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
During any period of work relating to grantee's facilities, all surface
structures and equipment, if any, shall be erected and used in such places and
positions within or adjacent to public rights of way and other public
properties so as to interfere as little as possible with the free passage of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic and the free use of adjoining property.
Grantee shall, at all times, post and maintain proper barricades and comply
with all applicable safety regulations during such period of construction as
required by the ordinances of the city, conditions of permits, and laws and
regulations of the state of Washington, specifically including Revised Code of
Washington 39.04.180 for the construction of trench safety systems.
If grantee shall at any time be required, or plan, to excavate trenches in any
area covered by this chapter, the grantee shall afford the city an opportunity
to permit other grantees and utilities to share such excavated trenches,
provided that: a) such joint use shall not unreasonably delay the work of the
grantee, and b) such joint use shall not adversely affect grantee's facilities
or safety thereof. Joint users will be required to contribute to the costs of
excavation and filling on a pro rata basis. Notification will be done by city.
If the number of competing grantees and utilities requesting joint use is
beyond a reasonable accommodation in any said ditch, a mutually agreed upon set
of determination criteria will be established by the director of community
development and all utilities involved. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-17: TIME FOR START AND COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION; TERMINATION OF
FRANCHISE:
The grantee, its successors or assigns, shall commence system construction
within the time stated within the franchise, and shall complete and have in
operation such portion of the system as may be specified in the franchise or
the franchise shall be voidable by the city and the rights therein conferred
upon the grantee may cease and terminate. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-18: RESTORATION AFTER CONSTRUCTION:
Grantee shall, after installation, construction, relocation, maintenance, or
repair of facilities within the area of the franchise, restore the surface of
the right of way to at least the condition existing prior to grantee's
activities, or as mutually agreed upon between grantee and the director through
a right of way permit, provided all work is compliant with the city public
works standards. Grantee agrees to promptly complete all restoration work and
to promptly repair any damage caused by such work within the area of the
franchise or other affected area at its sole cost and expense. In cases where
joint use attachments are found, the remaining joint use parties will be
responsible. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-19: DAMAGE AND NONCOMPLIANCE:
Any and all damage, or injury, done or caused to city rights of way, city
facilities, or any portion thereof in the construction, operation, maintenance
or repair of grantee's facilities shall be expeditiously repaired and
reconstructed pursuant to city standards or specifications.
In the event the grantee shall fail, neglect, or refuse to immediately repair
and reconstruct said damage or injury to said city rights of way or facilities,
the same may be done by the city and the reasonable cost and expense shall be
immediately paid by the grantee to the city.
If it is discovered by the city that grantee has damaged, injured, or failed to
restore the right of way in accordance with this chapter, the city shall
provide the grantee with written notice including a description of actions the
city believes necessary to restore the right of way. If the right of way is not
restored within ten (10) working days from receipt of written notice, the city,
or its authorized agent, may restore the right of way and facilities. The
grantee is responsible for all reasonable and documented costs and expenses
incurred by the city to repair and restore the right of way and facilities in
accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-20: PROTECTION OF MONUMENTS:
Before any work is performed under the franchise which may affect any existing
monuments or markers of any nature relating to subdivisions, plats, roads, and
all other surveys, the grantee shall reference all such monuments and markers.
The reference points shall be so located that they will not be disturbed during
the grantee's operations under the franchise. All concrete encased recorded
monuments which have been disturbed or displaced by such work shall be restored
pursuant to state and federal standards and specifications. The replacement of
all such monuments or markers disturbed during construction shall be made as
expeditiously as the conditions permit.
The reasonable, out of pocket and documented cost of monuments or other markers
lost, destroyed, or disturbed during construction or other use, and the expense
of replacement of approved monuments and other marker ties which have been
reestablished or disturbed shall be borne by the grantee. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-21: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS REQUIRED:
Unless otherwise permitted, whenever grantee shall occupy or excavate in any
public right of way or other public property for the purpose of installation,
construction, repair, maintenance or relocation of its facilities, it shall
apply to the city, and pay fees established by city council resolution, for a
permit ("construction permit") to do so, together with detailed plans and
specifications showing the position, depth, and location of all such facilities
in relation to existing rights of way, roads, streets, or other public
property, hereinafter collectively referred to as the "plans". Grantee's
specifications shall be considered the same as the grantee's "plans" and shall
be supplied with the initial or renewed franchise. All work within any public
rights of way or on other public property shall be pursuant to a valid permit
and city ordinance. The permit for individual jobs shall list a general
description of the work to be performed and shall specify a schedule for the
work. With respect to any excavations within the franchised area undertaken by
or on behalf of grantee or city, nothing herein is intended, nor shall be
construed, to relieve either party of the respective obligations arising under
applicable law with respect to determining the location of utility facilities.
During the progress of the work, grantee shall not unnecessarily obstruct the
passage or proper use of the rights of way. All restoration of rights of way,
roads, streets, storm drainage and the surface of other public property shall
be in conformance with city public works standards, and conditions of the
permit.
In addition to any criteria set forth by ordinance, the director of community
development shall apply the following criteria in the issuance or denial of a
construction permit application:
   A.   Whether the grantee has received all requisite licenses, certificates,
and authorizations from applicable federal, state, and local agencies with
jurisdiction over the activities proposed by the grantee;
   B.   The capacity of the right of way or street to accommodate the grantee's
proposed facilities ("capacity" means the ability of the property to
accommodate the facility without interfering with the reasonable use and
function of other existing utilities or permitted encroachments) prior to
issuing permits; and
   C.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the proposed
facilities.
The grantee shall give the city at least forty eight (48) hours' notice of the
grantee's intent to commence work. The grantee shall file plans or maps with
the city showing the proposed location of its utility facilities and pay all
duly established permit and inspection fees associated with the processing of
the permit. In no case shall any work commence within any public way without
said permit, except in an emergency or as otherwise provided in the franchise
or authority of the city. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-22: RELOCATION:
City shall notify grantee of any intended or expected requirement or request to
relocate grantee's facilities as early as practicable. City shall endeavor to
cause any such relocation to be consistent with any applicable public funded
long term development plan or projection of the city or approved by the city.
If, at any time, the city shall require such relocation, the grantee, upon
written notice from the city, shall, with all convenient speed, change the
location or readjust the elevation of its system and other facilities.
   A.   Whenever the city causes the construction of any publicly funded
project, in whole or in part, within the franchise area or on public grounds
and such construction necessitates the relocation of grantee's facilities from
their existing location within the franchise area or on such public grounds and
places, such relocation will be at no cost to the city.
   B.   In the event an emergency posing a threat to public safety or welfare
requires the relocation of grantee's facilities, the city shall give notice of
the emergency as soon as reasonably practicable. Upon receipt of such notice
from the city, grantee shall endeavor to respond as soon as reasonably
practicable to relocate the affected facilities, at no cost to the city.
   C.   Whenever any third party requires the relocation of grantee's
facilities to accommodate work of such third party within the franchise area or
on such public grounds then the grantee shall have the right as a condition of
any such relocation to require payment to grantee, at a time and upon terms
acceptable to grantee, for any and all costs and expenses incurred by grantee
in the relocation of their facilities, as provided for by applicable law,
regulation or tariff. Where the relocation of grantee's facilities is due in
part to development or improvement of a third party's property, which also
results in construction of a city project consistent with the city's capital
facilities plan, transportation improvement program or transportation
facilities program, grantee's costs and expenses of relocation shall be
proportionally allocated. For example, if one thousand (1,000) linear feet of
grantee's facilities must be relocated and two hundred fifty (250) linear feet
of the relocated facilities are to facilitate the third party development, then
twenty five percent (25%) of the cost of relocation shall be apportioned to the
third party. The city shall not be responsible for any cost or expense
associated with the relocation of grantee's facilities.
   D.   As to any relocation of grantee facilities whereby the cost and expense
thereof is to be borne by grantee, grantee may submit in writing to the city
alternatives to relocation of its facilities. Upon the city's receipt from
grantee of such written alternatives, the city shall evaluate such alternatives
and shall advise grantee in writing if one or more of such alternatives are
suitable. In the event the city reasonably determines that such alternatives
are not appropriate, grantee shall relocate its facilities as originally
requested. City will use every reasonable effort in design stages to limit
relocation.
   E.   If the city requires the subsequent relocation of any facilities within
five (5) years from the date of relocation of such facilities or installation
of new facilities, the city shall bear the entire cost of such subsequent
relocation. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-23: VACATION:
If, at any time, the city shall vacate any road, right of way or other public
property which is subject to rights granted by the franchise, such vacation
shall be subject to the reservation of a perpetual easement to the grantee for
the purpose of operating and maintaining the facilities of the grantee and
other public utilities. The city shall, in its vacation procedure, reserve and
grant said easement to the grantee for grantee's facilities and shall also
expressly prohibit any use of the vacated properties, which will interfere with
grantee's full enjoyment and use of said easement. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-24: MAINTENANCE:
Grantee shall install and maintain its facilities in a manner so as to prevent
damage to the city's property. Grantee, solely at its own expense, shall
repair, renew, change, and improve said facilities from time to time as may be
necessary to maintain the same in good condition. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-25: EMERGENCY RESPONSE:
The grantee shall, within sixty (60) days of the execution of the franchise by
the grantee, file with the city and adhere to an emergency management plan (the
"plan") for responding to an emergency condition which has a significant effect
on any property, life, health, or safety. The plan shall designate responsible
officials and emergency twenty four (24) hour on call personnel and the
procedures to be followed when responding to an emergency. If grantee does not
already have a plan in place, the grantee shall work with the director of
community development and the city's police chief in developing such a plan to
determine when and how the same should be contacted during emergencies. After
being notified of an emergency, grantee shall cooperate with the city and make
every effort to immediately respond with action to minimize damage and to
protect the health and safety of the public.
If grantee refuses to take the emergency action within a reasonable time and
conditions exist which require immediate action to prevent imminent injury or
damages to persons or property, the city may take such actions as it believes
are necessary to protect persons or property. Grantee shall be responsible to
reimburse the city for its reasonable, out of pocket and documented costs and
any expenses. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-26: EMERGENCY WORK:
In the event of any emergency in which any of grantee's facilities break, are
damaged, or if grantee's facilities or construction areas are otherwise in such
a condition as to immediately endanger any property, life, health, or safety,
grantee shall immediately inform the city of the location and condition and
shall immediately take all necessary actions to repair its facilities, and to
cure or remedy any dangerous conditions. Such emergency work may be commenced
without first applying for and obtaining a permit as required by this chapter.
However, this provision shall not relieve grantee from the requirement of
obtaining any permits necessary for this purpose, and grantee shall thereafter
apply for all such permits. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-27: DANGEROUS CONDITIONS; AUTHORITY OF CITY TO ABATE:
Whenever excavation, installation, construction, repair, maintenance, or
relocation of facilities has caused a condition that substantially impairs the
lateral support of the adjoining right of way, road, street or other public
place, or endangers the public, adjoining public or private property or street
utilities, the city may direct grantee, at grantee's sole expense, to take all
necessary actions to protect the public and property. The city may require that
such action be completed within a prescribed reasonable time frame.
In the event that grantee fails or refuses to promptly take the actions
directed by the city, or fails to fully comply with such directions, or if
emergency conditions exist which require immediate action, the city may enter
upon the property and take such actions as are necessary to protect the public,
adjacent public or private property, or right of way use, or to maintain the
lateral support thereof, and all other actions deemed by the city to be
necessary to preserve the public safety and welfare.
Grantee shall be liable to the city for all reasonable documented costs and
expenses thereof to the extent caused by grantee. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-28: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL:
A franchise issued pursuant to this chapter thereto shall not be sold,
assigned, transferred, leased, or disposed of, either in whole or in part,
either by involuntary sale or by voluntary sale, merger, consolidation, or
otherwise hypothecated in any manner, nor shall title thereto, either legal or
equitable, control thereof, or any right, interest, or property therein pass to
or vest in any person or entity, nor shall the controlling interest in any
corporation holding a franchise hereunder be changed in a manner reasonably
anticipated to diminish substantially grantee's ability or likelihood of
performing its obligations under the franchise, without the prior consent of
the city council; such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, or only under
such conditions as may be required by the city council; provided, however, such
transfer of control shall not include transfer to a parent, subsidiary, or
affiliate of a grantee, except when such transfer is intended to avoid
application of this section. Every type of sale, assignment change, transfer,
or acquisition of control of a franchisee issued pursuant to this chapter
thereto shall make a franchise subject to cancellation unless and until the
city shall have consented. Such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-29: SUCCESSORS TO GRANTEE:
All the provisions, conditions, regulations and requirements herein contained
shall be binding upon the successors, assigns and independent contractors of
the grantee and all privileges of the grantee shall inure to successors,
assigns and contractors. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-30: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
   A.   Notice Of Dispute: If either party has a dispute under this chapter, it
shall provide written and electronic notice to the other party. The notice
shall provide a brief description of the dispute.
   B.   Meet And Confer: Following delivery of notice to the other party, the
parties shall, within ten (10) business days from the date the notice is
delivered, meet and confer to discuss and attempt, in good faith, to resolve
the dispute. In the event the dispute is not resolved following this process,
the parties shall engage in mediation.
   C.   Mediation: If the parties are unable to resolve the dispute within
thirty (30) business days, the parties shall engage a mediator to assist the
parties in resolving the dispute. The mediator's fees and costs shall be
equally shared by the parties.
   D.   City Council: If the parties cannot resolve their dispute through
mediation, the matter may be submitted to the city council for resolution.
Either party shall request, through the city clerk, that the matter be placed
on the city council agenda. The clerk shall notify the parties of the date when
the matter will be considered by the city council. The city council shall hold
a hearing, receive information and make a decision. Nothing herein is intended
to waive a party's rights under this chapter, including the right to terminate
the franchise or seek judicial relief. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-31: FORFEITURE OF RIGHTS:
If the grantee, its successors or assigns, wilfully violate or fail to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter or franchise, fail to make timely
payment of any fee, charge for additional actual costs and expenses incurred by
the city, or through wilful or unreasonable neglect fail to heed or comply with
any notice given the grantee under the provisions of such grant, then the said
grantee, its successors or assigns, shall forfeit all rights conferred
thereunder and such franchise may be revoked or annulled by the city council in
accordance with section
8-8-39, "Revocation And Termination", of this chapter. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-32: INSURANCE:
The franchisee shall maintain, and by its acceptance of the franchise
specifically agrees that it will maintain, throughout the term of the
franchise, liability insurance in such amounts and under such conditions as
specified in the franchise. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-33: GRANTEE TO INDEMNIFY CITY:
The grantee, its successors or assigns, shall hold harmless and indemnify the
city from all claims, actions, damages, costs and attorney fees of every kind
and description which may accrue to be suffered by any person or persons,
corporation or property by reason of any faulty construction, defective
material or equipment, or maintenance, or by the improper occupation of said
right of way by the said grantee or by reason of the negligent, improper or
faulty manner relating to any excavation, temporary turnouts or inefficient
operation by the grantee of its facilities in streets, avenues, alleys, roads
and public places as hereinbefore designated, and in case that suit or action
is brought against the city for damages arising out of or by reason of any of
the above mentioned causes, the grantee, its successors or assigns, will, upon
notice to it or them of the commencement of said action, defend the same at its
or their sole cost and expense and in case judgment shall be rendered against
the city in suit or action, will fully satisfy said judgment within ninety (90)
days after the said suit or action shall have been finally determined, if
determined adversely to the city; provided, that the grantee therein, its
successors or assigns, shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any
cause or action and be given the management of the defense thereof. (Ord. 155,
11-7-2006)
8-8-34: EXTENT OF GRANTEE'S OBLIGATIONS:
The obligations imposed upon the grantee by the terms of the franchise, or this
chapter or any other ordinance affecting the same, shall be deemed to include
every employee, nominee or independent contractor of the grantee performing
work in the city streets, or other city property, under contract direction,
request or authority of the grantee under the franchise, and the grantee, its
agent, employee or independent contractor, severally, shall be responsible to
the city for any injury or damage to city property or the expense incurred or
suffered by the city in correcting defects in work replacing city streets or
other improvements damaged by the acts or neglect of such servants, agents or
independent contractors of grantee. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-35: FRANCHISE FEE:
To the extent authorized by applicable law, there may be imposed as a condition
of the grant of a franchise and in consideration thereof, a franchise fee.
Amount of such fee shall be established by resolution or the terms of the
franchise.
   A.   Any payment that may be due shall be due thirty (30) days past the
close of the grantee's calendar or tax quarter for which revenue was received
or thirty (30) days past the invoice date received from the city.
   B.   In the event that any franchise payment is not received by the city on
or before the applicable date due, interest shall be charged from such date at
the legally permissible rate.
   C.   In addition, if any payment due is not paid by the due date, the city
shall add a penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount due; and if the payment
is not received on or before the last day of the month following the due date,
the city shall add a total penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount due.
   D.   In the event a franchise is revoked or otherwise terminated prior to
its expiration date, a grantee shall file with the city, within ninety (90)
days of the date of revocation or termination, all payments due.
   E.   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the city's authority to tax a
grantee, or to collect any fee or charge permitted by law, and no immunity from
any such obligations shall attach to a grantee by virtue of this chapter. No
acceptance of any payment by the city shall be construed as a release or as an
accord and satisfaction of any claim the city may have for further or
additional sums payable as a franchise fee, if applicable, or for the
performance of any other obligation of the grantee. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-36: CHARGE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS:
There may be imposed, in addition to a franchise fee (if legally applicable), a
charge for the reasonable and documented administrative costs and expenses
incurred by the city in supervision, inspection and examination of such work
granted by a permit and done by the grantee or by an independent contractor
under the franchise of the grantee. Such charge shall be due and payable thirty
(30) days after the date of the invoice. Thereafter, interest shall accrue at
the legally permissible rate. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-37: LIQUIDATED DAMAGES:
Because a grantee's failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter and
its franchise will result in damage to the city and because it will be
impractical to determine the actual amount of such damages, the city and any
grantee may agree upon and specify in a franchise certain amounts which
represent both parties' best estimate of the damages. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-38: CIVIL PENALTIES AND ADDITIONAL RELIEF:
   A.   In addition to any penalty which may be imposed by the city, any
grantee violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this title
or any franchise issued pursuant thereto shall be liable for any and all damage
to city property or rights of way arising from such violation, including the
cost of restoring the affected area to its condition prior to the violation.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision in this title, the city may seek
legal or equitable relief to enjoin any acts or practices and abate any
condition which constitutes or will constitute a violation of the applicable
provisions of this title or any franchise issued pursuant thereto when civil or
criminal penalties are inadequate to effect compliance.
   C.   In addition to the penalties set forth in this section, violation of
any provision of this title or any franchise issued pursuant thereto may also
result in the revocation and termination of any franchise, permit, or other
agreement or authorization in accordance with section
8-8-39, "Revocation And Termination", of this chapter. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-39: REVOCATION AND TERMINATION:
   A.   In addition to all other rights and powers retained by the city under
this chapter and any franchise issued pursuant thereto, the city council
reserves the right to revoke and terminate a franchise and all rights and
privileges of a grantee in the event of a substantial violation or breach of
its terms and conditions. A substantial violation or breach by a grantee shall
include, but shall not be limited to, any of the following acts or omissions:
      1.   An uncured substantial violation of any material provision of this
chapter or an uncured breach of any material provision of a franchise issued
hereunder, or any material rule, order or regulation of the city made pursuant
to its power to protect the public health, safety and welfare;
      2.   Any default in the performance of any of grantee's material
obligations under any other documents, agreements and other terms and
provisions entered into by and between the city and the grantee;
      3.   An intentional evasion or knowing attempt to evade any material
provision of a franchise or practice of any fraud or deceit upon the
subscribers or upon the city;
      4.   Failure to begin or substantially complete any system construction
or system extension as set forth in a franchise;
      5.   Failure to provide the services promised in the application or
specified in a franchise or a reasonable substitute therefor;
      6.   Any use or occupation of the right of way that presents a risk to
public health or safety or the construction, installation, operation or
maintenance of a system in an unsafe or dangerous manner;
      7.   The wilful violation of any orders or rulings of any regulatory body
having jurisdiction over grantee relative to the franchise;
      8.   Misrepresentation of material fact in the application for, or during
negotiations relating to, a franchise;
      9.   A continuous and wilful pattern of inadequate service or failure to
respond to legitimate subscriber complaints;
      10.   Failure to provide insurance, bonds, letter of credit, or indemnity
as required by a franchise or this chapter;
      11.   An uncured failure to pay franchise fees as required by the
franchise agreement.
   B.   None of the foregoing shall constitute a substantial violation or
breach if the grantee is without fault or if the violation or breach occurs as
a result of circumstances beyond a grantee's reasonable control. A grantee
shall bear the burden of proof in establishing the existence of such
circumstances. However, a grantee's substantial violation or breach shall not
be excused by economic hardship or by nonfeasance or malfeasance of its
directors, officers, employees, agents or contractors.
Any termination or revocation shall be in accordance with section
8-8-40, "Procedures For Termination", of this chapter. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-40: PROCEDURES FOR TERMINATION:
   A.   Any franchise issued pursuant to this chapter may be terminated in
accordance with the following procedures:
      1.   The director of community development, or designee, shall notify the
grantee in writing of the exact nature of the alleged substantial violation or
breach constituting a ground for termination. Said notice shall provide that
the grantee shall have sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of notice to
correct and cure such alleged substantial violation or breach or to present
facts and argument in refutation of the alleged substantial violation or
breach. A copy of said notice of substantial violation or breach shall be
mailed to the surety on any performance bond.
      2.   If a grantee corrects any alleged substantial violation or breach
within the sixty (60) day cure period, then in no event shall the violation be
weighed against such grantee in any subsequent review of franchise performance.
      3.   If a grantee does not correct and cure the alleged substantial
violation or breach within the sixty (60) day cure period then the city council
shall, within forty five (45) days of the last day of the sixty (60) day cure
period, designate the hearing examiner as the hearing officer to conduct a
public hearing to determine if the revocation and termination of the franchise
is warranted and to make a recommendation to the city council. That
recommendation shall be transmitted to the city council for final action on a
closed record. The city council shall act as the final decision maker.
      4.   At least twenty (20) days prior to the public hearing, the city
clerk shall issue a public hearing notice and order that shall: establish the
issue(s) to be addressed in the public hearing; provide the time, date and
location of the hearing; provide that the city shall hear any persons
interested therein; and provide that the grantee shall be afforded fair
opportunity for full participation, including the right to introduce evidence,
to require the production of evidence, to be represented by counsel and to
question witnesses.
      5.   The hearing examiner shall hear testimony, take evidence, hear oral
argument and receive written briefs. The hearing examiner shall create for the
city council a complete record of the public hearing including all exhibits
introduced at the hearing and an electronic sound recording.
      6.   The grantee carries the burden of proof and must demonstrate that a
preponderance of the evidence supports the conclusion that there is not an
uncured substantial violation or breach or that the substantial violation or
breach is a result of circumstances beyond a grantee's reasonable control.
      7.   Within ten (10) working days after the close of the record the
hearing examiner shall issue a written decision that shall include the
recommendation of the hearing examiner on the revocation and termination of the
grantee's franchise, a finding of facts upon which the recommendation is based
and the conclusions derived from those facts.
   B.   The city council shall, at a public meeting, consider and take final
action on the recommendation of the hearing examiner. The city council shall
not accept new information, written or oral, but shall consider the complete
record developed before the hearing examiner and the recommendation of the
hearing examiner.
   C.   At the public meeting the city council shall either:
      1.   Accept the recommendation of the hearing examiner; or
      2.   Reject the recommendation of the hearing examiner; or
      3.   Remand the decision to the hearing examiner and the director for an
additional hearing limited to specific issues identified by the council.
   D.   The city council shall adopt an ordinance which accepts or rejects the
recommendation of the hearing examiner by a majority vote of the membership of
the council. If the action by the city council will result in the revocation
and termination of a grantee's franchise then the ordinance shall declare that
the franchise of such grantee shall be revoked and terminated, any security
fund or bonds are forfeited, and shall include findings of fact and conclusions
derived from those facts which support the decision of the council. The city
council may by reference adopt some or all of the findings and conclusions of
the hearing examiner. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-41: FORCE MAJEURE:
In the event the grantee's performance of any of the terms and conditions or
obligations required by this chapter is prevented by a cause or event not
within the grantee's control, such inability to perform shall be deemed excused
and no penalties or sanctions shall be imposed as a result thereof; provided,
however, that shall not relieve a grantee from its general obligations required
when interruptions in service occur. For the purpose of this section, causes or
events not within the control of the grantee shall include, without
limitations, acts of God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances,
restraints imposed by order of a governmental agency or court, explosions, acts
of public enemies, and natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes,
landslides, and fires, but shall not include financial inability of the grantee
to perform or failure of the grantee to obtain any necessary permits or
licenses from other governmental agencies or the right to use the facilities of
any public utility where such failure is due solely to the acts or omissions of
the grantee, or the failure of the grantee to secure supplies, services or
equipment necessary for the installation, operation, maintenance or repair of
the cable communications system where the grantee has failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to secure such supplies, services or equipment. (Ord. 155,
11-7-2006)
8-8-42: RECORDS:
As a condition of this chapter, and at its sole expense, grantee agrees to
provide the city with available as built plans, potential improvement plans,
field locates, maps, plats, and specifications of its facilities within city
rights of way upon reasonable request. Grantee shall provide GIS data or field
locate its facilities in order to facilitate design and planning of city
improvement projects. Copies of the above documents shall be made available in
paper and digital or electronic format.
The parties agree to periodically share and deliver geographic information
system (GIS) data upon written request, provided the GIS data are to be used
solely for governmental purposes. Any data provided to grantee shall be
restricted to information required for grantee's engineering needs for
installation, repair or replacement of facilities that are the subject of the
franchise. Grantee is prohibited from selling any GIS information obtained from
city to any third parties. GIS data provided to the city by grantee is
proprietary and shall not be distributed in any form to third parties outside
of the city. As to any such data so provided, grantee does not warrant the
accuracy thereof and, to the extent the location of facilities are shown, such
facilities may be shown in their approximate location. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
8-8-43: PUBLIC DISCLOSURE ACT:
Grantee acknowledges that information submitted to the city may be subject to
inspection and copying under the Washington public disclosure act codified in
chapter 42.56 Revised Code of Washington. Grantee shall mark as "CONFIDENTIAL"
each page or portion thereof of any documentation/information which it submits
to the city and which it believes is exempt from public inspection or copying.
The city agrees to provide the grantee with a copy of any public disclosure
request to inspect or copy documentation/information which the grantee has
provided to the city and marked as "CONFIDENTIAL" prior to allowing any
inspection and/or copying as well as provide the grantee with a time frame,
consistent with state law, to provide the city with its written basis for
nondisclosure of the requested documentation/information. In the event the city
disagrees with the grantee's basis for nondisclosure, the city agrees to
withhold release of the requested documentation/information in dispute for a
reasonable period solely determined by the city, so that the grantee can file a
legal action under state law. (Ord. 155, 11-7-2006)
CHAPTER 9
UNLAWFUL CAMPING AND STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IN PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
8-9-1: Purpose
8-9-2: Definitions
8-9-3: Unlawful Camping
8-9-4: Unlawful Storage Of Personal Property In Public Places
8-9-5: Penalty For Violations
8-9-6: Removal Of Unlawful Encampments And/Or Personal Property Unlawfully
Stored In Public Places
8-9-7: Enforcement Suspended
8-9-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to prevent harm to the health and safety of
the public and to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
keeping public streets and other public property readily accessible to the
public and to prevent use of public property for unlawful camping or storage of
personal property which interferes with the rights of others to use the areas
for which they were intended. (Ord. 115C, 6-6-2023)
8-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used in this chapter:
                    Erecting a tent or shelter or arranging bedding or both for
                    the purpose of, or in such a way as will permit,
CAMP(ING):          establishing an encampment or remaining overnight; or
                    parking a trailer, van, recreational vehicle, bus, camper
                    or other vehicle for the purpose of establishing and
                    encampment or remaining overnight.
CAMP FACILITIES:    Include, but are not limited to, tents, huts, temporary
                    shelters, or vehicles.
                    Includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins, cots, beds,
CAMP PARAPHERNALIA: sleeping bags, hammocks, or cooking facilities and similar
                    equipment.
CONTRABAND:         Any property that is unlawful to produce or possess.
LITTER:             That as defined in RCW 70.93.030(6) and (11) and adopted by
                    Ord. 140, 10-4-2005, as now or hereafter amended.
PERSONAL PROPERTY:  Any tangible thing of value that is not recognized as real
                    property.
                    As defined in Liberty Lake Municipal Code 8-3-6(B) includes
                    any and all pedestrian structures or forms of improvement
SIDEWALK:           for pedestrians included in the space within the street
                    margin, as defined by a curb or the edge of the traveled
                    road surface, and the line where the public right of way
                    meets the abutting property, as now or hereafter amended.
SOLID WASTE:        means that as defined is RCW 70.95.030(22) and Liberty Lake
                    Municipal Code 2-8-3, as now or hereafter amended.
STORE:              means to put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to
                    put up for safekeeping, to place or leave in a location.
                    For the purpose of this chapter, the term street as used
STREET:             herein means any city street identified in Liberty Lake
                    Municipal Code title 8, chapter 3. (Ord. 160, 3-20-2007),
                    as now or hereafter amended. (Ord. 115C, 6-6-2023)
 
8-9-3: UNLAWFUL CAMPING:
It is unlawful for any person to camp in the following places, except as
otherwise provided by the Liberty Lake Municipal Code.
   A.   Any city owned or maintained right of way, trail, park, park facility,
open space, parking lot, building and grounds, or golf course; or
   B.   Any area where camping obstructs or interferes with city owned or
maintained right-of-way or the intended public use of the property. (Ord. 115C,
6-6-2023)
8-9-4: UNLAWFUL STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It is unlawful for any person to store personal property, including camp
facilities and camp paraphernalia, in the following places, except as otherwise
provided by the Liberty Lake Municipal Code:
   A.   Any city owned or maintained right of way, trail, park, park facility,
open space, parking lot, building and grounds, or golf course; or
   B.   Any area where storage of personal property obstructs or interferes
with city owned or maintained right-of-way or the intended public use of the
property. (Ord. 115C, 6-6-2023)
8-9-5: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
Violation of any provision of this chapter is a misdemeanor, and shall be
punished, upon conviction of such violation, by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars (S 1000.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed ninety (90) days
or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 115C, 6-6-2023)
8-9-6: REMOVAL OF UNLAWFUL ENCAMPMENTS AND/OR PERSONAL PROPERTY UNLAWFULLY
STORED IN PUBLIC PLACES:
The city administrator, or designee, shall be authorized to order the removal
of unlawful encampments and/or personal property unlawfully stored in public
places in a manner consistent with this chapter. Any ordered removal shall be
subject to the following provisions.
   A.   The city reserves the right to immediately remove unlawful encampments
and/or personal property unlawfully stored if a reasonable suspicion exists
that any of the following conditions is present:
      1.   Criminal activity other than unlawful camping;
      2.   Significant risk of bodily injury or death;
      3.   Significant obstruction or interference with the primary intended
use of the property.
   B.   If none of the conditions cited in Section A (above) is present, the
city shall post a notice at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the actual
removal, which shall include the following details:
      1.   The date and time the notice is posted;
      2.   The address or location of the unlawful encampment and/or personal
property unlawfully stored;
      3.   “Camping and/or storage of personal property is prohibited in this
area”;
      4.   The specific code section being violated, verbatim;
      5.   “Any individual continuing to use the area for unlawful camping and/
or unlawful storage of personal property may be subject to criminal penalties
in accordance with this chapter”;
      6.   The specific code section outlining penalties, verbatim;
      7.   “Any personal property remaining at the encampment after the notice
period expires is subject to removal by the city”; and
      8.   The date and time the notice period expires.
   C.   Removal of unlawful encampments and/or personal property stored
unlawfully according to this chapter shall be subject to the following
provisions:
      1.   Any contraband removed by the city shall be seized and retained as
evidence of criminal activity or discarded in a proper manner.
      2.   Any litter, solid waste, hazardous, or toxic item removed by the
city shall be discarded in a proper manner.
      3.   Any personal property, camp facilities, and/or camp paraphernalia
removed by the city, not described by Section A (above) shall be stored for
sixty (60) days. If unclaimed after sixty (60) days, the city shall discard in
a proper manner.
      4.   Notice shall be posted at the removal site, which shall include the
following details:
         a.   The date and time the notice is posted;
         b.   The address or location of the removal site;
         c.   “Personal property removed from this site may be claimed at the
Liberty Lake Police Department”;
         d.   The specific code section outlining removal, verbatim;
         e.   The date and time the sixty (60) day storage period expires; and
         f.   “To appeal this removal, please contact the Liberty Lake Police
Department”.
      5.   If the owner(s) of removed personal property is known or discovered,
the city should make a good faith attempt to make contact and provide removal
and property storage details.
   D.   Any individual who receives a notice under this section or whose
property is removed from an unlawful encampment has a right to meet with the
city administrator, or designee, to raise any concerns, objections, or provide
extenuating circumstances. At the conclusion of the meeting, the city
administrator, or designee, shall prepare a written decision detailing the
individual’s concerns and the city’s response. (Ord. 115C, 6-6-2023)
8-9-7: ENFORCEMENT SUSPENDED:
Except as otherwise provided in this section, enforcement of criminal
provisions of this chapter shall be suspended any time there is no space or
beds available in regional homeless shelters that accept patrons from the city
to the extent such available space or beds are required by law. In such
circumstances, all provisions of this chapter may continue to apply to camping,
storage of personal property, including camp facilities and camp paraphernalia,
and unauthorized encampments at the following:
   A.   Any city owned or maintained right of way, trail, park, park facility,
open space, parking lot, building and grounds, or golf course; or
   B.   Any area where camping obstructs or interferes with city owned or
maintained right-of-way or the intended public use of the property. (Ord. 115C,
6-6-2023)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Adoption Of Referenced Codes
9-1-2: General Requirements For All Referenced Codes
9-1-1: ADOPTION OF REFERENCED CODES:
   A.   International Building Code (IBC) And International Existing Building
Code (IEBC), And Standards (Chapter 51 -50 WAC):
      The current edition of the international building code, and the
international existing building code as published by the International Code
Council, and adopted by the state of Washington in WAC 51-50, are hereby
adopted with all Washington state amendments and standards including the
additions, deletions, and exceptions in WAC 51-50, except that the following
appendix is the only appendix adopted:
         Appendix J - Grading
      Building valuation costs used to determine permit fees shall be from the
most current issue of "Building Safety Journal", published by the International
Code Council.
   B.   International Residential Code (IRC) And Standards (Chapter 51-51 WAC):
      The current edition of the international residential code, as published
by the International Code Council, and adopted by the state of Washington in
WAC 51-51, is hereby adopted with all Washington state amendments and standards
including the additions, deletions, and exceptions in WAC 51-51. provided that
chapters 11 and 25 through 42 of such code are not adopted as set forth in WAC
51-51, except that the following appendices are the only appendices adopted:
         Appendix F - Radon Control Methods
         Appendix G - Hot Tubs, Swimming Pools, And Spas
         Appendix H - Patio Covers
         Appendix L - Permit Fees
      Building valuation costs used to determine permit fees shall be from the
most current issue of "Building Safety Journal" published by the International
Code Council.
   C.   International Mechanical Code (IMC), International Fuel Gas Code
(IFGC), National Fuel Gas Code (NFPA 54), And Liquefied Petroleum Gas Code
(NFPA 58) And All Standards (Chapter 51-52 WAC):
      The current edition of the international mechanical code, the
international fuel gas code, the national fuel gas code, and the liquefied
petroleum gas code, as published by the International Code Council, and adopted
by the state of Washington in WAC 51-52, are hereby adopted with all Washington
state amendments and standards including the additions, deletions, and
exceptions in WAC 51-52.
   D.   International Fire Code (IFC) And Standards (Chapter 51-54 WAC):
      The current edition of the international fire code, as published by the
International Code Council, and adopted by the state of Washington in WAC 51-
54, is hereby adopted with all Washington state amendments and standards
including the additions, deletions, and exceptions in WAC 51-54, except that
the following appendices are the only appendices adopted:
         Appendix B - Fire Flow For Buildings
         Appendix C - Fire Hydrant Locations And Distribution
         Appendix D - Fire Apparatus Access Roads
   E.   Uniform Plumbing Code (UPC) And Standards (Chapter 51-56 WAC):
      The current edition of the uniform plumbing code, as published by the
International Association of Plumbing And Mechanical Officials, and adopted by
the state of Washington in WAC 51-56. is hereby adopted with all Washington
state amendments and standards including the additions, deletions, and
exceptions in WAC 51-56.
   F.   Washington State Energy Code (Chapter 51-11 WAC):
      The current edition of the international energy conservation code (IECC),
as published by the International Code Council, and adopted by the state of
Washington in WAC 51-11C, is hereby adopted with all Washington state
amendments and standards including the additions, deletions, and exceptions in
WAC 51-11C.
   G.   National Electrical Code (NFPA 70) And Standards (Chapter 296-46B WAC):
      The current edition of the national electrical code, as published by the
National Fire Protection Association, and adopted by the state of Washington in
WAC 296-46B. is hereby adopted with all Washington state amendments and
standards including the additions, deletions, and exceptions in WAC 296-46B.
The national electrical code is administered, adopted, and amended by the
Washington state department of labor and industries.
   H.   Documents To Be Filed And Available For Public Inspection:
      The codes, appendices and standards set forth in this chapter shall be
filed with planning and building services, and a copy thereof made available
for use and examination by the public, pursuant to Revised Code of Washington
35A.12.140.
   I.   Penalties:
      Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or the
codes or standards adopted herein or fail to comply therewith, or who shall
violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, within the
time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
of not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or by imprisonment for not
more than one year or by both such fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. 272, 4-6-2021)
9-1-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL REFERENCED CODES:
   A.   Reserved.
   B.   Design Requirements:
 
Ground Snow Wind Speed  Seismic Design Weathering Frost Line Depth Termites
Load1       (Gust)      Category
40 lbs/ft2  85 mph      C              Severe     24"              Slight to
                                                                   moderate
 
 
               Winter Ice Shield               Air Freeze
Decay          Design Underlay   Flood Hazards Index      Mean Annual Temp
               Temp
                                 2010
None to slight 10°   Yes        2003          1232       47.2°
                                 1992
 
Note:
      1.      Minimum roof snow load to be 40 lbs/ft² in the city of Liberty
Lake.
   C.   Professional Preparation Of Plans: The city shall require a Washington
licensed design professional, licensed under the provisions of Revised Code Of
Washington 18.08, WAC 308-12 or Revised Code Of Washington 18.43, to prepare or
oversee the preparation of plans in accordance with the international building
and residential codes, including preparing construction contract documents and
administering the contract for construction, erection, enlargement, alteration
or repairs of or to a building of any occupancy, unless waived by building
official or designee.
   D.   Construction Plans: All submitted construction documents must be of
sufficient detail to show the entire project with emphasis on the following:
      1.   Structural integrity.
      2.   Life safety.
      3.   Architectural barriers (ADA handicap compliance).
      4.   Compliance with all codes having jurisdiction.
      5.   Scope of work.
      6.   Special inspection requirements and protocols.
      7.   Minimum scale of the plans shall be one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot.
In general, the amount of detail required will vary depending on the nature and
complexity of the project.
   E.   Permits:
      1.   Ownership: The ownership of a Liberty Lake development permit shall
inure to the property owner. The permit applicant is, by definition, an agent
of the property owner, if not the property owner.
      2.   Expiration Of Permits: All permits shall expire based on the
administrative sections of the international building and residential codes.
   F.   Referenced Ordinance: All referenced codes are available for review at
Liberty Lake City Hall.
   G.   Fees: All Liberty Lake permit fees and fee policies shall be
established by ordinance and shall be contained in the adopted planning and
building services and public works fee schedule, as amended.
   H.   Appeals: All appeals of any building official decision, order, or
determination relative to the application and interpretation of this title
shall be made in conformance with the city of Liberty Lake development code
appeal process.
   I.   Floodplain Development: All development within a designated floodplain
located in the city of Liberty Lake jurisdiction shall comply with FEMA
standards and with construction specifications detailed in the IBC/IRC flood
resistant construction, as amended.
   J.   City Business License: Anyone working on a project must apply for a
city business license at the time of or prior to permit issuance. (Ord. 229, 6-
7-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC SAFETY STREET NAMING AND PHYSICAL ADDRESSING STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Purpose
9-2-2: Applicability
9-2-3: Administration
9-2-4: Definitions
9-2-5: Streets/Roads
9-2-6: Signs
9-2-7: Addressing Grid
9-2-8: Multiple Units
9-2-9: Final Plat Addresses
9-2-10: Display Of Address
9-2-11: List Of Established Street/Road Names
9-2-12: Deviations
9-2-13: Appeals
9-2-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a uniform method for naming
streets/roads and assigning addresses for real property and structures within
the City of Liberty Lake.
   B.   The goals of this chapter are as follows:
      1.   Facilitate expedient emergency response by medical, law enforcement,
fire, rescue, and any other emergency services.
      2.   Regulate the display of property address numbers and provide for
accurate road name signage, installation, and maintenance thereof.
      3.   Provide property owners, the general public, emergency responders,
and government agencies and departments with an accurate and systematic means
of identifying and locating property and/or structures. (Ord. 244, 8-15-2017)
9-2-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This chapter applies to all public and private streets/roads, addresses
for real property, and structures situated within the City of Liberty Lake. The
City of Liberty Lake may name or rename streets/roads and assign or reassign
addresses as necessary to further the purpose of this chapter.
   B.   The provisions herein shall apply to the assignment of addresses to all
new or existing buildings or properties within the City of Liberty Lake.
   C.   All non-conforming addresses may be changed to conform to this chapter.
(Ord. 244, 8-15-2017)
9-2-3: ADMINISTRATION:
Liberty Lake Planning and Building Services shall administer the provisions of
this chapter, unless otherwise provided for herein and this chapter shall be
applied in conjunction with the City Development Code section 10-3G-2(S) and
the River District SAP-08-0001 section 10-3G-2(P) for street names and
addresses, as applicable. (Ord. 244, 8-15-2017)
9-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are used in this chapter in addition to the
definitions contained in articles 10-1C of the City Development Code and the
River District SAP-08-0001:
ADDRESS: A property location identification with the following format: address
number, directional prefix, street/road name, roadway type, building
designator, and unit designator (e.g., "123 W Main St., Apt. 456"). The
following elements are required: address number, street/road name, and roadway
type. The following elements may be optional: directional prefix, building
designator, and unit designator.
ADDRESS NUMBER: The numeric designation for an addressable structure or unit.
ADDRESSABLE: A property required to be assigned an address under this chapter.
ADDRESSABLE PROPERTY, ADDRESSABLE STRUCTURES, ADDRESSABLE SITES OR ADDRESSABLE
UNITS: Generally, the habitable or legally occupied structure on a lot, parcel,
or tract, but may also include other structures or sites as determined
necessary by the relevant addressing authority.
ADDRESSING AUTHORITY: Liberty Lake Planning and Building Services.
ADDRESSING DATABASE: The computerized format for tracking assigned street/road
names and addresses within the City of Liberty Lake.
ADDRESSING GRID SYSTEM: The address number and directional system in a
particular area such as a grid system or block system.
ADMINISTRATOR: The Planning and Building Services Manager or designee.
BUILDING DESIGNATOR: A one letter descriptor for a single building within a
multiple unit complex (e.g., "123 W Main St., Bldg. A").
DEPARTMENT: Liberty Lake Planning and Building Services.
DIRECTIONAL PREFIX: A one or two (2) letter descriptor within a street/road
name consisting of any combination of the cardinal directions of North, South,
East, and West, generally used in specific street/road naming schemes (i.e., N,
S, E, W, NE, NW, SE, SW).
E911 DIRECTOR: The Manager of the local 911 service.
MULTIPLE UNIT COMPLEX: An apartment, condominium, or business complex where
there exist multiple buildings on a single site or within a single project, and
two (2) or more buildings include multiple units.
MULTIPLE UNIT STRUCTURE: A single structure which contains two (2) or more
units.
MULTIPLE UNITS: The presence of two (2) or more addressable structures,
addressable sites or addressable units on a single Spokane County tax parcel or
group of undivided interest parcels.
NON-CONFORMING ADDRESS OR STREET/ROAD NAME: An address or street/road name that
is not in compliance with this chapter.
NON-CONFORMING STREET/ROAD NAME SIGN: A street/road name sign that is not in
compliance with this chapter.
REGIONAL PUBLIC SAFETY SPATIAL DATABASE: The spatial format for tracking all
assigned road names and addresses within Spokane County. This system is
maintained by the Regional Public Safety Geographic Information Systems
(RPSGIS) Committee for use in Countywide public safety-related applications.
ROADWAY TYPE: An abbreviated word used in conjunction with a street/road name
to describe the character of the street/road and will be in accordance with
USPS Publication 28 appendix C1 or the most current USPS Published Standards.
The following are allowable roadway types:
Alley (Aly): A narrow service roadway that serves rear lots and where platted
width is generally less than twenty feet (20').
Avenue (Ave): A through local, collector, or arterial roadway generally running
east-west.
Boulevard (Blvd): Roadway with exceptional width, length and scenic value,
typically with a landscaped median dividing the roadway; or an arterial or
major collector roadway that lies diagonally to the east-west, north-south grid
system.
Circle (Cir): A local or collector roadway having ingress and egress from the
same roadway. See also definition of "roadway type: loop".
Court (Ct): A dead end or cul-de-sac that will not become an extension or a
continuation of either an existing or future roadway; not longer than six
hundred feet (600') in length.
Drive (Dr): A lengthy local access, collector, or arterial that does not have a
definite directional course.
Highway (Hwy): Used to designate State or Federal roadways only.
Lane (Ln): Roadway used as a private local access within a development.
Loop (Lp): A local or collector roadway having ingress and egress from the same
roadway. See also definition of "roadway type: circle".
Parkway (Pkwy): A thoroughfare designated primarily as a collector or arterial,
with a median reflecting the park-like character implied in the name.
Place (Pl): Permanently dead-end roadway, terminating in a cul-de-sac, or short
through roadway, not longer than six hundred fifty feet (650') in length.
Road (Rd): This type is typically reserved for roadways located outside the
boundary of a city or town. This type may be found within city/town limits due
to past annexations or when a new roadway is in alignment with or within one
hundred twenty five feet (125') of an existing county road.
Street (St): A through local, collector, or arterial roadway generally running
north-south.
Way (Way): A curvilinear roadway.
STREET/ROAD NAME: The word or words either existing, or in the case of new or
renamed roads, which are approved by Liberty Lake Planning and Building
Services, used in conjunction with a directional prefix, and/or a roadway type
to identify a public or private street/road.
STREET(S)/ROAD(S): Public and private streets/roads. Street/road may be used
interchangeably; however street shall be the standard term for new streets
within the City of Liberty Lake.
UNIT: A specific dwelling or commercial space amongst a larger group of
dwellings or commercial spaces (e.g., apartment, suites, etc.).
UNIT DESIGNATOR: A secondary address number that is used to identify a separate
unit on a single lot, parcel, tract of land, or within a multiple unit complex.
A unit designator at a minimum shall consist of a unit type and a numeric
identifier (e.g., 10126 W Rutter Pkwy, Apt. 2). A unit designator within a
multiple unit complex shall consist of a unit type, a building designator, and
a numeric identifier (e.g., 123 W Main St., Apt. A200). The building designator
and unit designator are concatenated into a single item (e.g., A200 where A is
the building designator, and 200 is the unit designator). See also: definition
of "multiple units", "multiple unit complex", "multiple unit structure".
UNIT TYPE: An abbreviated word used in conjunction with a unit designator to
describe the character of the unit and will be in accordance with USPS
Publication 28 appendix C2 or the most current USPS Published Standards. The
following are allowable unit types:
"Apt" for apartment
"Bldg" for building
"Bsmt" for basement
"Dept" for department
"Dorm" for dormitory
"Fl" for floor
"Frnt" for front
"Hngr" for hangar
"Lbby" for lobby
"Lot" for lot
"Lowr" for lower level
"Ofc" for office
"Pier" for pier
"Rear" for rear
"Rm" for room
"Slip" for slip
"Spc" for space
"Ste" for suite
"Stop" for stop
"Trlr" for trailer
"Unit" for unit
"Uppr" for upper
UTILITY SITE: A parcel containing any type of utility service, located on a
legal parcel of land with no association to a building and, requiring periodic
maintenance or readings by utility company personnel. (Ord. 244, 8-15-2017)
9-2-5: STREETS/ROADS:
   A.   Naming Requirements:
      1.   New or unnamed existing streets/roads providing access to four (4)
or more addressable parcels, structures, or units shall be named.
      2.   Existing streets/roads for which renaming has been authorized by the
addressing authority to promote the purpose of this chapter shall be renamed.
      3.   Pre-approved street/road names shall be identified on plat documents
at the time of final plat, short plat or binding site plan (BSP) submittal.
      4.   All streets/roads shall be named regardless of whether the ownership
is public or private.
      5.   Only traveled ways that qualify as streets/roads may be named;
except auto-court lanes, as defined in the City Development Code/River District
SAP-08-0001 may be named. Private driveways and alleys shall not be named for
the purpose of the addressing standards.
      6.   Driveways, access to parking areas, and other traveled surfaces that
are not considered streets/roads may not be named; except as noted above, but
may have directions identified with the following method:
         a.   Arrow signs indicating building or address ranges within an
apartment complex or campus may be placed at the entrances and along the non-
roadway traveled surface to locate buildings.
   B.   Naming Of Streets/Roads:
      1.   Any project permit action that results in a name being created to
identify a new street, whether public or private, shall comply with the
requirements of this chapter. The applicant will designate proposed street
names. Liberty Lake Planning and Building Services shall review the proposed
street names for consistency with this chapter and approve or revise as needed.
      2.   A proposed street/road name change shall also be reviewed by Liberty
Lake Planning and Building Services for consistency with this chapter. The
applicant or the City, as applicable, will be required to give notice of the
proposed change to the owners of property fronting on the street/road and
properties currently addressed off the street/road, the United States Postal
Service, and emergency dispatching personnel, for the purpose of eliciting
comments about the proposed change prior to Liberty Lake Planning and Building
Services approving or denying the proposed change. The applicant shall pay for
all costs associated with a proposed change, as outlined in the adopted
Planning and Building Services and Public Works Fee Schedule, as amended, and
the City shall also be reimbursed by the applicant for the cost to implement an
approved change, as applicable.
   C.   Street/Road Naming Standards: All new, unnamed, or renamed streets
within the City of Liberty Lake shall be named pursuant to this chapter and the
following criteria:
      1.   Street names shall be easy to read and pronounce.
      2.   Street names shall not contain vulgarity or vulgar innuendo, nor
insult to any person, group, or class of persons, or institution.
      3.   Street names shall not sound similar to other street/road names
within the City of Liberty Lake, whether existing or currently proposed (e.g.,
Links, Lynx).
      4.   Duplicate street names will not be allowed.
         a.   Street names shall not duplicate any County roadway names unless
the new street is in alignment with the existing street/road.
         b.   Streets/roads with the same root name but different suffix (that
are not in reasonable alignment with the existing street/road) will be
considered as a duplicate roadway name (e.g., Chesterfield Drive or
Chesterfield Lane) and thus disallowed.
      5.   Street names shall conform to the most current MUTCD and City of
Liberty Lake standards for maximum letter usage and characters, including
spaces.
      6.   Street names shall be based on the Modern English alphabet and shall
not contain special characters (periods, dashes, underscores, apostrophes,
quotes, diacritic, etc...) or have frivolous, complicated, or unconventional
spellings. Street names may contain a single space to separate two (2) words
(e.g., "Mount Spokane Dr.").
      7.   Street names shall not include abbreviations (e.g., "St Charles" vs.
"Saint Charles"), with the exception of numbered streets, which may be written
in their abbreviated format (e.g., "1st" for "First", etc...).
      8.   Articles (e.g., "The", "A", or "An") shall not be used to begin
street names.
      9.   Street names duplicating commercial or private facilities shall not
be used (e.g., "Bowling Alley", "Tennis Court", or "Railroad Street").
      10.   Numbered or alphabetical street names shall continue in sequence
(e.g., 1st adjacent to 2nd, and not adjacent to 3rd).
      11.   A proposed street which is a continuation of, or in alignment with
an existing street/road, shall continue the street/road prefix direction,
street/road name, and roadway type of the existing street/road whenever
possible. If the proposed street will terminate at a cul-de-sac, the roadway
type for the block containing the cul-de-sac may be Court (Ct).
      12.   Street name integrity should be maintained for the entire length of
the street/road whenever possible. Street/road names shall only change when
there is a substantial intersection or significant "visual geometric cue".
Generally continuous streets/roads shall not be subdivided into segments with
different names.
      13.   Street names shall not include a directional prefix (e.g., "W West
Washington Rd.").
      14.   Street names shall not include words used as roadway types (e.g.,
"Circle St." or "Avenue Way").
      15.   Street names shall not include the word highway (e.g., "Highway 2"
or "Old Sunset Highway").
      16.   Alleys and driveways shall not be named or assigned addresses.
      17.   Auto-court lanes, as defined in the City Development Code/River
District SAP-08-0001 may be named.
      18.   Streets which meander or change abruptly from one predominant
direction to another shall be assigned a directional prefix in one direction
throughout the road length according to which general direction of such road is
the predominant direction of travel.
      19.   If a street/road forks into two (2) roadways, the fork with the
highest projected traffic volume should continue the same name.
      20.   Two (2) uniquely named roadways should not intersect more than once
(e.g., Main St. should not intersect Pine Ln. at 200 W. Main St., and also
intersect Pine Ln. at 400 W. Main St.). Loops and circles will be reviewed on
an individual basis and require approval from the Administrator.
      21.   All street names which deviate from this chapter shall be subject
to a review by the addressing authority in consultation with the E911 Director,
or designee, for ease of use within E911 computer-aided dispatch systems, and
verified against the Regional Public Safety Spatial Database. (Ord. 244, 8-15-
2017)
9-2-6: SIGNS:
   A.   Street/Road Name Signs Required:
      1.   All private and public streets/roads shall have approved street/road
name signs posted at every intersection in compliance with Federal, State, and
local laws and regulations. Street/road name signs shall be made and installed
pursuant to this chapter and the Liberty Lake Engineering Design Standards.
Block information shall be assigned by the addressing authority.
      2.   Prior to the acceptance of streets or issuance of Certificates of
Occupancy, as applicable, the developer/applicant shall install proper street
name signs to be located and constructed per the jurisdiction standards and in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter, and shall arrange for
inspection by Liberty Lake Public Works.
   B.   Standards For Signage Of Streets/Roads:
      1.   All public and private roads, streets, and buildings shall be
designated by names or numbers on signs clearly visible and legible from the
roadway. All street/road signs, both public and private, shall be constructed,
located and maintained in accordance with standards adopted by the City of
Liberty Lake. (Ord. 244, 8-15-2017)
9-2-7: ADDRESSING GRID:
   A.   Grid Systems:
      1.   The City of Liberty Lake shall participate in the use of the
addressing grid system described in this section (City of Spokane Addressing
Grid), except as stated for the Legacy Ridge and Legacy Ridge West
Developments.
      2.   The City of Spokane Addressing Grid is defined as follows:
         a.   Sprague Avenue or Sprague Avenue extended divides the City into
north and south addresses and Division Street or Division Street extended
divides the City into east and west addresses.
         b.   North of Sprague addresses have even numbers on the east side of
the street/road and odd numbers on the west side; south of Sprague even numbers
are on the west side of the street/road and odd numbers are on the east with
the exception of the Legacy Ridge and Legacy Ridge West Developments within the
City of Liberty Lake where due to the layout and orientation of the streets,
the numbers do not always follow the standard practice as the streets change
directions; however the numbering for the development is consistently followed
throughout the development.
         c.   West of Division Street addresses have even numbers on the north
side and odd numbers on the south side of the road; east of Division Street
even numbers are assigned to the south side of the road and odd numbers are on
the north side with the exception of the Legacy Ridge and Legacy Ridge West
Developments within the City of Liberty Lake where due to the layout and
orientation of the streets, the numbers do not always follow the standard
practice as the streets change directions; however the numbering for the
development is consistently followed throughout the development.
         d.   The appropriate directional designation, or abbreviation of the
word itself (e.g., "N." or "North"), is part of the address and follows the
number. For example, the first lot south of Sprague Avenue on the west side of
Division Street would have a street address of "1 S. Division Street".
   B.   Addressing Standards:
      1.   Each property owner who has addressable property and has not been
assigned an address has a responsibility to apply to the addressing authority
for a physical address.
      2.   Application for each address assignment prior to the issuance of a
building permit shall include, at a minimum: a site map showing any proposed or
existing structures, driveways, and street/road approach locations.
      3.   The numbering of addressable properties or structures along each
road shall begin at the appropriate grid point of origin and continue in
sequence. No address shall be out of sequence in relation to the adjacent
addresses.
      4.   Each block along a street/road may have up to one hundred (100)
address numbers. The hundred series shall change upon crossing a road
intersection or in best possible alignment with the established address grid if
applicable, with the exception of intersecting driveways and/or alleys. The
hundred series along a public road shall not change upon crossing a private
road, unless deemed necessary by the addressing authority. Private roads wholly
contained within plats shall be assigned hundred series as if they were public
roads.
      5.   Addresses along a street/road shall have even numbers on one side of
the road and odd numbers on the other side as defined in the appropriate
addressing grid.
      6.   Individual address numbers shall be assigned to fit within the block
range of the road segment to which the address is assigned (e.g., a new address
that is assigned to the 200 block of Main St, must be assigned a number between
200 and 299). Individual addresses should be assigned to be consistent with
adjacent blocks of the same N-S or E-W orientation.
      7.   Properties only accessible via a shared driveway shall be assigned
based on the point of origin of the driveway from the connecting street/road
and shall be sequential.
      8.   Addressable property or structures shall be assigned an address
based upon the street/road from which vehicular access to the property or
structure is obtained, with the following exceptions:
         a.   Commercial and public facility structures may be assigned an
address based upon the street/road the main entrance faces and not necessarily
the access road.
         b.   Residential structures on corner lots may be assigned an address
based upon the street/road the main entrance faces and not necessarily the
access road.
         c.   Per the City Development Code section 10-3G-2(S) and the River
District SAP-08-0001 section 10-3G-2(P) for street names and addresses, if a
building does not have street frontage (e.g., common area or pedestrian path
frontage), then the address shall be provided based on the street connection
point for vehicular access and appropriate signage shall be provided for public
safety.
      9.   Fractional addresses shall not be used (e.g., "1001/2 W Main St.").
      10.   Address numbers shall not contain any non-numeric characters (e.g.,
"118a" or "118b").
   C.   Change In Street/Road Or Address Status:
      1.   If a public or private street/road right-of-way is altered, the
addressing authority shall review the alteration and may assign a corrected
street/road name and/or address/addresses consistent with the provisions of
this chapter. If the access to an individual address is altered, the addressing
authority shall assign a corrected address consistent with the provisions of
this chapter (e.g., the owners of 200 W Cherry Ln. change the location of their
driveway from Cherry Ln. to Spruce Ln. necessitating an address on Spruce Ln.).
      2.   Refer to subsection
9-2-5B2 of this chapter for the process to review proposed street/road name
changes in the City of Liberty Lake. (Ord. 244, 8-15-2017)
9-2-8: MULTIPLE UNITS:
   A.   Multiple Units:
      1.   Duplex/triplex units shall be assigned one address for each unit
when possible.
      2.   Approved accessory dwelling units (ADU) whether attached or
detached, shall be assigned a secondary address from the primary dwelling unit.
The ADU shall be identified by the building designator "Unit" (e.g., 123 W.
Main St., Unit 1).
      3.   Manufactured home parks which contain dwelling units fronting on
public or private streets/roads shall be assigned one address for each dwelling
unit. Manufactured home parks which contain dwelling units fronting on unnamed
private access roadway(s) or driveways shall be assigned one address for the
entire property, and a secondary address assigned for individual spaces by the
manufactured home park owner subject to approval by the City (e.g., "1520 W.
Richland St., Spc. 1").
      4.   Multiple unit complexes shall be assigned one address for the
property based upon the street/road from which vehicular access to the
structures is obtained whenever possible. If necessary, the addressing
authority may assign an address based upon the street/road the main entrance
faces (e.g., "1642 N. Sherman Rd., Spc. 10" or "1642 N. Sherman Rd., Bldg C").
      5.   Structures within multiple unit complexes shall be assigned a
building designator for each structure as opposed to a unique address (e.g.,
"123 W Main St., Bldg. A") unless an exception is granted by the addressing
authority.
      6.   When unit designators are assigned to multiple unit structures with
individual building designations, the unit designator shall include the
building designation (e.g., 123 W Main St., Apt. A200 or 123 W Main St., Bldg.
A, Apt. 200).
      7.   When unit designators are assigned to buildings with multiple
floors, all above ground units shall be assigned a three (3) digit number (or
higher) where the beginning number shall represent the floor upon which the
unit is located (e.g., first floor units would be assigned a 3 digit number
beginning with 1, "Apt. 101", fifteenth floor units would be assigned a 4 digit
number beginning with 15, "Apt. 1501").
      8.   Units within below grade stories shall include the alpha characters
"Lowr" to indicate lower level and then be assigned a three (3) digit number
where the beginning number shall represent the floor upon which the unit is
located (e.g., all units in the first level below grade would be assigned 3
digit numbers beginning with 1, "Apt. Lowr 101", units on the second level
below grade would be assigned 3 digit numbers beginning with 2, "Apt. Lowr
201").
      9.   Should a remodel of a multiple-unit structure alter the number or
configuration of units, the addresses of units within said structure shall be
updated to remain in compliance with this section.
      10.   Should a remodel of a single-unit structure create a multiple-unit
structure, the addresses of units within said structure shall be updated to
remain in compliance with this section.
      11.   When unit designators are assigned to individual multifamily
dwellings (including apartments and condominiums) the units shall use the unit
type for apartment: "Apt" or unit: "Unit".
      12.   When unit designators are assigned to individual dwellings/spaces
in manufactured home parks, the units shall use the unit type for space: "Spc".
      13.   When unit designators are assigned to individual commercial suites
or tenant spaces within a commercial structure(s), the units shall use the unit
type for suite: "Ste".
      14.   All other multiple unit structures not previously described shall
contain a unit type which most closely identifies the unit's use and which is
in accordance with current USPS Published Standards. (Ord. 244, 8-15-2017)
9-2-9: FINAL PLAT ADDRESSES:
Prior to the filing of a residential final plat, all lot access plans must be
submitted and approved as required by the City Development Code/River District
SAP-08-0001, as applicable, and the full physical addresses for all lots within
or served by the development must be indicated on the final plat. Physical
addresses will not be issued without an approved preliminary plat map. (Ord.
244, 8-15-2017)
9-2-10: DISPLAY OF ADDRESS:
   A.   Display Of Address:
      1.   On structures now existing or hereafter erected, the owner of the
property or structure shall conspicuously place the correct address, as
required by this chapter and/or current City Building/Fire Codes.
      2.   Addresses shall be displayed on all new and existing buildings.
Letters, numbers or symbols shall meet the following standards:
         a.   The posted address shall be metal or other durable material.
         b.   The numbering/lettering shall be at least four inches (4") in
height, and one-half inch (1/2") in stroke width minimum.
         c.   The posted address shall contrast with its background.
         d.   The address shall be placed on the structure plainly legible and
visible from the roadway from which vehicular access is provided to the
property or structure.
         e.   Address is visible from all directions of travel.
      3.   Structures in excess of one hundred feet (100') from the street/road
fronting the property shall display the address on a sign, monument, or post
not less than three feet (3'), nor more than six feet (6') above the ground and
located at the entrance to the property from the nearest street/road. The
structure shall display additional posting at the structure location.
      4.   If two (2) or more addressable structures share a common primary
access and any one of the addressable structures is located more than one
hundred feet (100') from the roadway designated in the assigned address, the
addresses for each structure shall be posted at the intersection of the shared
access and the named roadway on a sign or post not less than three feet (3')
nor more than six feet (6') above the ground, and each structure shall display
additional posting at the structure location.
      5.   If refuse collection is elsewhere than in the fronting street of a
building, the owner and occupant shall conspicuously post and maintain the
street address number near the refuse receptacles clearly legible from the
place where the refuse is collected.
      6.   Address numbers, signage, location, and sizing shall be maintained
in a manner consistent with the provision, purpose, and intent of this
addressing standard by the responsible property owner, including all other
local, State and Federal laws. (Ord. 244, 8-15-2017)
9-2-11: LIST OF ESTABLISHED STREET/ROAD NAMES:
The City of Liberty Lake - Spokane County RPSGIS Committee shall maintain the
Regional Public Safety Spatial Database comprised of all public and private
streets/roads and addresses within all of Spokane County. The aforementioned
spatial database is available for viewing either online from the Spokane County
website or in person within the Spokane County Public Works Building during
regular business hours. (Ord. 244, 8-15-2017)
9-2-12: DEVIATIONS:
The Administrator may grant minor deviations from literal compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. Such deviations are intended to provide relief
from literal compliance with specific provisions of this chapter in instances
where there is an obvious practical problem with doing so, while still
adequately addressing the property for location by emergency service providers
and to promote the other purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 244, 8-15-2017)
9-2-13: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeals:
      1.   The hearing examiner shall hear appeals of street/road naming or
renaming decisions by the City, pursuant to City of Liberty Lake Development
Code/River District SAP-08-0001 Appeal Process for Administrative
Interpretations or the underlying project permit type, as applicable.
      2.   An appeal must be filed prior to a final plat, short plat, or BSP
approval.
      3.   Appeals must be in writing on forms provided by Planning and
Building Services. The applicant has the burden of demonstrating that the
desired street/road name or address satisfies the requirements of this chapter.
      4.   An appeal fee as specified in the adopted Planning and Building
Services and Public Works Fee Schedule, as amended, must be submitted with the
completed appeal form and any supporting documentation. (Ord. 244, 8-15-2017)
 
