CITY OF AFTON, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 12-2024, passed 10-15-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 02-2024
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF AFTON, MINNESOTA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES 
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature and the State of Minnesota empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF AFTON AS
FOLLOWS:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form as hereby adopted as and
shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Afton, Minnesota.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
      TITLE I:   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      TITLE III:   ADMINISTRATION
      TITLE V:   PUBLIC WORKS
      TITLE VII:   TRAFFIC CODE
      TITLE IX:   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      TITLE XI:   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      TITLE XIII:   GENERAL OFFENSES
      TITLE XV:   LAND USAGE
      TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      PARALLEL REFERENCES
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code; nor shall such
repeal any ordinances that were adopted during the process of updating the Code
of Ordinances but were not included in the updated Code of Ordinances. These
ordinances shall remain in force and shall be codified into the updated Code of
Ordinances as part of the first code update.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be necessary for the immediate
preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the people of
this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date provided by law.
ADOPTED BY THE CITY OF AFTON CITY COUNCIL THIS 20TH DAY OF FEBURARY, 2024.
                                    SIGNED:
                                    Bill Palmquist /s/
                                    Bill Palmquist, Mayor
ATTEST:
Ronald J. Moorse /s/
Ronald J. Moorse, City Administrator
 
MOTION:      Ross
SECOND:      Wromblewski
Nelson:      Aye
Ross:         Aye
Wromblewski:   Aye
Perkins:      Aye
Palmquist:      Aye
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
 
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
   
Appendix: Notice of code violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Afton City Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   And or or. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Afton, Minnesota
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Washington County.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize
highway right-of-ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the
acceptance, establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of
corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not
been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that all future amendments to
any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by reference in this code or
referenced in this code are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this code was adopted, unless there is
clear intention expressed in the code to the contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting the
Minnesota Basic Code of Ordinances, all future supplements are hereby adopted
as if they had been in existence at the time this Code was enacted, unless
there is clear intention expressed in the Code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk shall have the authority to administer and enforce this
code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Clerk or City Council shall have the
authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk and any city official or employee designated by this
code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with the
permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident of
a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   (1)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or
entrance to the property by the City Clerk or any other authorized city officer
or employee only to enforce and determine compliance with the provisions of
this code enacted to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people.
      (2)   Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection of or entrance to the
property shall be grounds for termination of any and all permits, licenses or
city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given to the licensee,
owner, resident or other person in control of the property, stating the grounds
for the termination. The city shall provide an opportunity to appear before the
City Clerk to object to the termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of
the Clerk’s decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or special
meeting.
   (E)   (1)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable cause
exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting the
inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only to
determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant.
      (2)   No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue
the warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause
does not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular
property.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
Such resolution may not proscribe administrative penalties for traffic offenses
designated by M.S. § 169.999.
   (B)   The administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended to
provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   (1)   In the discretion of the Peace Officer, City Clerk or other
person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, must
provide written notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the
person who is alleged to have violated the code. The person giving notice may
request the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation
directly to the City Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation.
      (2)   A sample notice is contained in the appendix to this chapter. In
the sole discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation,
the time for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not
requested by the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the
administrative penalty, the person giving notice may request in the notice to
the alleged violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation
resulting in the alleged violation and may provide that if the alleged violator
corrects the situation resulting in the alleged violation within the time
specified in the notice, the payment of the administrative penalty will be
waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed
for any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota
Statutes specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more
than 90 days or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
   (F)   (1)   Upon probable cause to believe that a violation has been
committed and the violator has committed the violation or is legally
responsible for the commission of the violation or for allowing the condition
constituting the violation to exist, an issuer is authorized to issue a
citation, complying with the standards set forth below, to the violator;
      (2)   In the case of a violation which constitutes a property violation,
the citation may, in addition, include a directive to eliminate the condition
giving rise to the property violation;
      (3)   If reasonably practical, the issuer shall deliver the citation to
the violator in person. If the violator is not present at the time that the
citation is issued, cannot be reasonably contacted for the purpose of delivery
of the citation or refused to accept delivery of the citation, the issuer may
deliver the citation to the violator by depositing it in the U.S. mail
addressed to the violator at an address of public record for the violator,
which may include but need not be limited to an address taken from area
telephone directories, from records of the city assessor, from records of city-
owned utilities or from other public sources. Delivery by such alternative
means shall be deemed to be valid delivery and shall be deemed to be effective
three days after the deposit of the citation in the U.S. mail.
APPENDIX A: NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                  
of the City Code relating
to
                                                                                                      
.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of
$        for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash or money
order to the City Treasurer.
Signed:                                                            
      (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   CITY FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Mayor and Council member salaries
§ 30.01 MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBER SALARIES.
   The Mayor and each Council member of the city shall be paid a salary which
shall be set from time to time in accordance with state statute.
(Prior Code, § 2-36)
Statutory reference:
   Salaries of governing body, see M.S. § 415.11
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   City Administrator
   
31.02   City Attorney
   
31.03   Building Official
   
31.04   Application of state laws
§ 31.01 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The office of Clerk and Treasurer are abolished and replaced with the
office of Clerk-Treasurer to be referred to as the City Administrator. The
duties of the City Clerk and Treasurer, as prescribed under M.S. Ch. 412, as it
may be amended from time to time, shall be assumed by and consolidated into a
newly created position of City Administrator.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall serve at the pleasure and discretion of
the City Council and report directly to the City Council. All other offices and
positions created by the City Council, with the exception of the City Attorney,
shall report to the City Council through the City Administrator.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall be assisted in managing the day-to-day
operations of the city by a Deputy Clerk, office assistant and Building
Official.
   (D)   The Deputy Clerk, office assistant, Building Official and other
employees of the city as may be appointed from time-to-time, shall report
directly to the City Administrator.
   (E)   The City Administrator shall be responsible for the day-to-day
operations of the city, including the management and supervision of the Deputy
Clerk, office assistant and any other full or part-time employees as may be
appointed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-76) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Res. 1997-18, passed 6-
17-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Officers and employees in statutory cities, see M.S. §§ 412.101 through
412.151
   Powers of Council in statutory cities, see M.S. §§ 412-191 through 412.231
§ 31.02 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall report directly to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 31.03 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The office of the Building Official is hereby established. The
Building Official is the Code Enforcement Officer and the Zoning Administrator
and enforces the city code.
   (B)   The essential functions of the Building Official shall be as follows:
      (1)   Review plans and specifications for all types of buildings,
structures, HVAC and plumbing and calculate fees and state surcharges where
required. Inspect buildings, structures and property to ensure compliance with
plans and specifications and other state and city codes, environmental health
and safety regulations and the zoning regulations in
Ch. 153 of this code. Conduct foundation, framing, structural, plumbing,
heating and air conditioning and other required inspections;
      (2)   Administer building permit procedures. Provide information
concerning building permit procedures and standards on a daily basis to
residents, businesses, developers, architects and others involved in building
construction activities;
      (3)   Conduct all necessary inspections for zoning permits (special and
conditional uses, signs, fences, farm site plans, design review, variances and
the like) and other permits as may be required by the city code;
      (4)   Enforce codes by receiving and investigating complaints concerning
alleged code violations. Meet with property owners or tenants to inform them of
specific violations and necessary corrective measures. Prepare reports on the
violations for the City Administrator, Planning Commission, City Council and
City Attorney, as necessary. Assist in the preparation and issuance of
violation notices to violators;
      (5)   May keep records, blueprints, permits and maps of sewer systems and
appurtenances, service lines and pumps; ensure inspection of systems; and issue
permits for ISTS;
      (6)   Work with residents, contractors, architects, developers, the city
staff, Fire Department and other agencies and departments concerning permit
applications, work in progress and questions relating to codes and regulations.
Assist in revision of plans, reviews by consultants, coordination of
consultants and related reviews, permits or inspections;
      (7)   Assist in preparations of the departmental budget and in
maintaining budgetary control, maintain records and prepare reports;
      (8)   Establish and maintain all records, pertinent files and necessary
reports on all permits, zoning actions, code violations and other related
development activities, including notices, correspondence, minutes and
ordinances;
      (9)   Assist the City Administrator in the development and maintenance of
a GIS system, policy and ordinance revisions and land use planning procedures
and controls;
      (10)   Prepare monthly and annual reports on construction activities to
regional, state and federal agencies and to the City Council;
      (11)    Keep abreast of new equipment, materials, technologies and
construction practices, as well as new or changing codes, regulations and
enforcement procedure; and recommend changes in policies and ordinances to the
City Administrator;
      (12)   Attend City Council and Planning Commission meetings, as needed,
to present recommendations and findings; and
      (13)   Perform related work as required.
   (C)   The Building Official shall report directly to the City Administrator.
   (D)   All other requirements for this position shall be set forth in the job
description.
(Prior Code, § 2-111) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Res. 1997-18, passed 6-
17-1997)
§ 31.04 APPLICATION OF STATE LAWS.
   The provisions of the Government Data Practices Act, M.S. Ch. 13, the
Opening Meeting Law, M.S. Ch. 13D, and the laws relating to Gifts to Local
Officials, M.S. § 471.895, as these laws may be amended from time to time,
apply to the City Council and all boards and commissions of the city and their
members.
Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see M.S. §§
13.01 et seq.
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.01   Established
   
32.02   Members generally
   
32.03   Terms of office
   
32.04   Terminations
   
32.05   Vacancies
   
32.06   Officers
   
32.07   Duties and powers
   
32.08   Zoning ordinances; public hearings
   
32.09   Annual work plan
   
32.10   Regular meetings
   
32.11   Special meetings
   
32.12   Quorum
   
32.13   Voting
   
32.14   Proceedings
   
32.15   Rules of procedure
   
32.16   Agendas
   
32.17   Records
   
32.18   Member training
Heritage Preservation Commission
   
32.30   Established; members
   
32.31   Terms of office
   
32.32   Organization
   
32.33   Program assistance
   
32.34   Designation of heritage preservation sites
   
32.35   Owner consent
   
32.36   Intra-city communication
   
32.37   Findings and recommendations
   
32.38   Council designation, hearings
   
32.39   Communication with State Historical Society
   
32.40   Acquisition
   
32.41   Additional powers and duties of the Commission
   
32.42   Review of permits
   
32.43   Meetings
Building Department
   
32.55   Creation
   
32.56   Powers and duties
   
32.57   Inspectors
   
32.58   Conflict of interest
   
32.59   Reports and records
   
32.60   Right of entry
   
32.61   Stop orders
   
32.62   Occupancy violations
   
32.63   Liability
   
32.64   Cooperation of other officials
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED.
   A Planning Commission for the city is hereby established pursuant to M.S. §§
462.351 through 462.364, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2-131)
§ 32.02 MEMBERS GENERALLY.
   The members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed by a majority of
the City Council. The Council shall appoint nine members to the Planning
Commission.
   (A)   Composition. Each ward shall be continually represented by at least
one member residing in this ward, with no more than three members from any one
ward.
   (B)   Qualifications. Every member shall be a registered voter in the city,
and before entering upon disposition of his or her duties, each member shall
take an oath that he or she will faithfully perform the duties of office.
   (C)   Compensation. All members shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   Ex-officio member. The City Council shall appoint one of its members
to serve as an ex-officio member of the Planning Commission. This Council
member shall not have a vote in any proceedings, nor hold any office in the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-132) (Ord. 3-2009, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 32.03 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed for overlapping
terms of three years, effective February 15 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 2-133) (Ord. 1997-57, passed 1-21-2003; Ord. 2006-11, passed 11-
21-2006)
§ 32.04 TERMINATIONS.
   Any Planning Commission member’s term shall terminate upon his or her
resignation, or upon ceasing to reside within the city, or if by reason of his
or her change of residence a ward ceases to be represented, or by four-fifths’
vote of the City Council for cause. Cause shall include, but not be limited to,
having more than three absences or more than one unexcused absence in any one
calendar year. The Council may consider exceptional circumstances when applying
this rule.
(Prior Code, § 2-134)
§ 32.05 VACANCIES.
   The City Council shall fill any vacancy occurring in the membership of the
Planning Commission by appointment for the unexpired term of the vacancy.
(Prior Code, § 2-135) (Ord. 1997-50, passed 8-22-2000)
§ 32.06 OFFICERS.
   The members of the Planning Commission shall elect a chairperson, a vice-
chairperson and a secretary from among its appointed members at the annual
meeting each year, for a term of one year. The chairperson shall preside at all
meetings of the Commission, if present, and shall perform all other duties and
functions assigned by the Commission or the City Council. The vice-chairperson
shall perform these duties in the absence of the chairperson. If a vacancy
occurs in the chairperson’s office, the vice-chairperson shall assume the
chairperson’s duties for the remainder of the year, and a new vice- chairperson
shall be elected by the Commission at a special election to be held at the next
regularly scheduled Commission meeting, after at least three days’ written
notice to each Commission member. The secretary shall take the minutes of the
Commission meetings.
(Prior Code, § 2-136)
§ 32.07 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The Planning Commission shall be the planning agency of the city and shall
have the powers and duties given to agencies generally by M.S. §§ 462.351
through 462.364, as they may be amended from time to time, together with the
following.
   (A)   The Commission shall exercise the duties and powers conferred upon it
by any ordinance of the city now existing or hereafter enacted.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Commission to study and make its
recommendation to the City Council concerning the following:
      (1)   A comprehensive plan for the land use of the city;
      (2)   All applications for special use permits, rezoning, variances,
other zoning permits and other related matters;
      (3)   Proposed plat; minor subdivisions, parks and open spaces plans; and
      (4)   Laying out of streets and public ways and other related matters.
   (C)   The Commission shall undertake studies and recommend actions on
planning matters as the City Council may from time to time refer to the
Commission.
   (D)   The Commission shall have the power to hold a public hearing upon any
application for a special use permit, rezoning or amendment to the zoning
ordinance, upon ten days’ public notice.
   (E)   The Commission shall have the power to form and appoint committees to
carry out its duties and powers, including, but not limited to committees for
zoning, parks, open spaces, natural resources and capital improvements.
(Prior Code, § 2-137)
§ 32.08 ZONING ORDINANCES; PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   No zoning ordinance or amendment thereto, shall be adopted by the City
Council until a public hearing has been held thereon by the Planning Commission
upon notice as provided in M.S. § 462.357, subdivisions 3 and 4, as it may be
amended from time to time. The record of the public hearing by the Planning
Commission shall include the name of every person speaking for or against the
proposal and a summary of the testimony of each witness.
(Prior Code, § 2-138)
§ 32.09 ANNUAL WORK PLAN.
   The Planning Commission shall meet with the City Council at its annual
meeting in January to develop an annual work plan, including a list of
projects, points of interaction on projects, programs and goals for the year.
(Prior Code, § 2-139) (Res. 1996-48, passed 12-17-1996; Res. 1997-16, passed 6-
17-1997)
§ 32.10 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each
month. It shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its regulations, transactions and findings, which shall be a public
record. Expenditures of the Commission shall be within amounts appropriated for
the purpose by the City Council.
   (B)   No action shall be taken in the absence of a quorum except to adjourn
the meeting to a subsequent date. A regular meeting may be canceled or
rescheduled by the Commission at a prior meeting or if there are no scheduled
agenda items, ten days prior to the meeting.
   (C)   All action taken by the Commission shall be by the affirmative vote of
a majority of the members present.
(Prior Code, § 2-140)
§ 32.11 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meeting of the Planning Commission shall be held in the City Hall at
a time and designated or at a public place at the time designated and shall be
called by the chairperson. Upon the written request of at least three members,
the chairperson shall be required to call a special meeting to be held within
seven days of the request. Written notice thereof shall be given to all members
not less than three days in advance of the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-141)
§ 32.12 QUORUM.
   A quorum of the Planning Commission shall consist of a simple majority.
(Prior Code, § 2-142)
§ 32.13 VOTING.
   Each member of the Planning Commission attending any meeting shall be
entitled to cast one vote. Voting shall be by voice vote. If any member shall
have a personal interest of any kind in the matter then before the Commission,
he or she shall disclose this interest and be disqualified from voting upon the
matter, and the secretary shall record in the minutes that no vote was cast by
the member.
(Prior Code, § 2-143)
§ 32.14 PROCEEDINGS.
   At any regular meeting of the Planning Commission, the following shall be
the regular order of business:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   Minutes of the preceding meeting;
   (C)   Approval of agenda;
   (D)   Public hearings as scheduled on the agenda;
   (E)   Other business; and
   (F)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 2-144)
§ 32.15 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   All meetings of the Planning Commission shall be conducted in accordance
with the Revised Robert’s Rules of Order, Second Edition.
(Prior Code, § 2-145)
§ 32.16 AGENDAS.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall cause all items to be considered at any
regular meeting to be placed on a written agenda ten days before the regular
meeting.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall advise the chairperson of any matters the
Commission must consider by Council directive, ordinance or statute and shall
have prepared and mailed a written agenda of all meetings to all Commission
members, the City Council and the public, no less than five days before each
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-146)
§ 32.17 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each formal action of the Planning Commission shall be embodied in
full upon the minute book as a formal motion or resolution after an affirmative
vote as provided in this subchapter. The minutes of each meeting shall be
provided to each member, the City Council and the public no more than seven
days after the date of each meeting.
   (B)   The recommendations and findings of the Commission shall be presented
to the City Council at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting. The
record of meetings, actions and recommendations shall be transmitted to the
City Administrator for keeping and distribution.
(Prior Code, § 2-147)
§ 32.18 MEMBER TRAINING.
   The Planning Commission members shall be encouraged to avail themselves of
training courses offered by the city, the state and other government and public
training agencies and the City Council shall budget for the reimbursement of
expenses incurred in training each year.
(Prior Code, § 2-148) (Ord. 1997-50, passed 8-22-2000)
HERITAGE PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 32.30 ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS.
   There is hereby created and established a Heritage Preservation Commission
which shall consist of no more than nine, but no fewer than five members. One
shall be appointed directly by the city’s Historical Society and the other
members shall be appointed by the City Council. Any member appointed to serve
on the Preservation Commission shall have a demonstrated interest and/or
expertise in historic preservation. At least two members must be professional
in a field related to preservation (architecture, history, planning, design,
construction, law and so forth).
(Prior Code, § 2-150) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 1997-51, passed 1-
16-2001; Ord. 2005-4, passed 4-19-2005; Ord. 12-2010, passed 12-21-2010)
§ 32.31 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   All appointments to the Commission shall be made for a term of three years.
Members may be reappointed for consecutive terms. Members shall serve without
compensation and continue to hold office until their successors have been
appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2-151) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 12-2010, passed 12-
21-2010)
§ 32.32 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Commission, when formed, shall elect officers from its members as
it may deem necessary. The Commission shall have the power to designate and
appoint from its members various committees. The Commission shall make bylaws
as it may deem advisable and necessary for the conduct of its affairs, for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this subchapter, which are not
inconsistent with the laws of the city and the state.
   (B)   The Commission shall make an annual report, containing a statement of
its activities and plans to the City Council. The Heritage Preservation
Commission shall also function as the Design and Review Committee, of which the
duties of the committee are specified in §
153.061 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 2-152) (Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-6-2006)
§ 32.33 PROGRAM ASSISTANCE.
   To accomplish the intent and purpose of this subchapter, the city shall
provide the Commission with staff support to perform the duties prescribed
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-153)
§ 32.34 DESIGNATION OF HERITAGE PRESERVATION SITES.
   (A)   Reports. The City Council, upon request of the Commission, may direct
the city staff or Commission to prepare studies which catalog buildings, land,
areas, districts or other objects to be considered for designation as a
heritage preservation site.
   (B)   Criteria. The Commission shall recommend to the City Council areas,
buildings, districts or objects to be designated heritage preservation sites.
In considering the designation of heritage preservation sites, the Commission
shall apply the following stated criteria and other applicable criteria that
may be established by the Secretary of the Interior from time to time:
      (1)   Its character, interest or value as part of the development,
heritage or cultural characteristics of the city, state or the United States;
      (2)   Its location as a site, or contributing element in proximity to a
site of a significant historic event or process;
      (3)   Its embodiment of distinguishing characteristics of architectural
style, period, form or treatment;
      (4)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the culture and development of the city;
      (5)   Its embodiment of elements of architectural design, detail,
materials or craftsmanship which represents distinctive architectural
innovation; and
      (6)   Its unique location or singular physical characteristics
representing an established and familiar aspect of view, vista, site, area or
district in the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-154)
§ 32.35 OWNER CONSENT.
   No heritage preservation site shall be designated by the Heritage
Preservation Commission without the consent of the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 2-155)
§ 32.36 INTRA-CITY COMMUNICATION.
   The Heritage Preservation Commission shall establish and maintain
communications with the Planning Commission and others interested in or
affected by a heritage preservation site designation.
(Prior Code, § 2-156) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 32.37 FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The Heritage Preservation Commission shall determine if a proposed heritage
preservation site is eligible for preservation as determination by the criteria
specified by this subchapter and applicable secretary of the interior
standards, and current procedure as recommended by the state’s historic
preservation office and if the Heritage Preservation Commission recommends to
the City Council that the site be recommended for heritage preservation site
designation.
(Prior Code, 2-157) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 32.38 COUNCIL DESIGNATION, HEARINGS.
   The City Council, upon the request of the Heritage Preservation Commission,
may by resolution designate a heritage preservation site. Prior to this
designation, the City Council shall hold a public hearing, notice of which
shall have been published in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten
days prior to the date of the hearing, and mailed notice of the hearing sent to
the owner of property which is proposed to be designated a heritage
preservation site and to all owners of property lying immediately adjacent to
the proposed heritage preservation site.
(Prior Code, § 2-158) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 32.39 COMMUNICATION WITH STATE HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
   Prior to designating a proposed heritage preservation site, the Commission
shall forward information concerning the proposed designation to the state’s
Historical Society for comment within 60 days. The decision of the Heritage
Preservation Commission and City Council shall be sent to the state’s
historical society in accordance with M.S. § 471.193, subdivision 6, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2-159) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 32.40 ACQUISITION.
   The Heritage Preservation Commission may recommend to the City Council that
certain property eligible for designation as a heritage preservation site be
acquired by gift, by negotiation or by other legal means.
(Prior Code, § 2-160) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 32.41 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties in addition to
those otherwise specified in this subchapter.
   (A)   The Commission shall conduct a continuing survey of all areas, places,
buildings, structures or objects in the city which the Commission, on the basis
of information available or presented to it, has reason to believe are
significant to cultural, social, economic, political or architectural history
of the city.
   (B)   Following designation of a heritage preservation site, the Commission
shall act as a resource and in an advisory capacity to owners of properties
regarding preservation, restoration and rehabilitation activities. Commission
activity in this regard shall include participation in the planning and
implementation of activities within the downtown historic district and
designated adjacent properties and other local heritage preservation sites.
   (C)   The Commission shall work for the continuing education of the citizens
of the city with respect to the civic and architectural heritage of the city.
It shall keep current and public a register of all properties which have been
designated heritage preservation sites, along with the plans and programs that
pertain to them.
   (D)   With prior approval of the City Council, the Commission may have
authority to accept gifts and contributions to be made to the city and to
assist the city staff in the preparation of applications for grant funds to be
made by the city for the purpose of heritage preservation. Any contributions or
gifts will be expended in the manner provided through the fiscal policy of the
city.
   (E)   The Commission shall on a continuing basis collect and review all
records and studies, to be entered into the historical museum as a permanent
record of city history and development.
   (F)   At the discretion of the Commission, public hearings may be initiated
to solicit public input regarding proposed activities to a heritage
preservation site.
(Prior Code, § 2-161) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 32.42 REVIEW OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The Commission shall review all activities which are proposed for a
heritage preservation site within the city.
   (B)   The Commission shall review activities in accordance with this
subchapter and bylaws as adopted by the Commission.
      (1)   To initiate review by the Commission, the owner or designated
representative of a heritage preservation site shall prepare and submit plans
to the city detailing all proposed activities. Upon receipt of the plans and
refundable fee in accordance with the bylaws established by the Commission, the
proposed activities shall be considered by the Commission.
      (2)   Following review of the proposed activities and detailed plans and
application of the design review guidelines, the Commission shall forward its
recommendation and certificate of approval to the Building Official as
necessary and other persons interested or affected by the proposal at the
discretion of the Commission. The Building Official shall deny any building
permit application for work proposed on a heritage preservation site which has
not been first considered by the Commission or is inconsistent with
recommendations made by the Commission.
      (3)   If the owner or designated representative of a heritage
preservation site objects to the recommendations made by the Commission, an
appeal may be made to the City Council. In considering an appeal, the City
Council will review all information generated relative to the proposed project
and thereafter issue a decision by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-162) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 32.43 MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Commission shall be scheduled and conducted in
compliance with the state’s Open Meeting Law, being M.S. Ch. 13D, and bylaws as
established by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-163) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
BUILDING DEPARTMENT
§ 32.55 CREATION.
   There is hereby established in the city the Building Department which shall
be under the jurisdiction of the Building Official designated by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
§ 32.56 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all the
provisions of the state’s Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)
§ 32.57 INSPECTORS.
   In accordance with the procedure and with the approval of the City Council,
the Building Official may appoint a number of inspectors and other employees as
shall be authorized from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2-203)
§ 32.58 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Neither the Building Official nor any inspector shall have any financial
interest in any concern engaged in a business relationship with the city nor
engage in any business relationship with the city within his or her respective
field.
(Prior Code, § 2-204)
§ 32.59 REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   The Building Official shall submit a report to the City Council not less
than once a year, covering the work of the department during the preceding
period. The Building Official shall keep a permanent, accurate account of all
fees and other moneys collected and received, the names of the persons upon
whose account the same were paid, the date and the amount thereof, together
with the location of the building or premises to which they relate.
(Prior Code, § 2-205)
§ 32.60 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Official or his or her
duly authorized representative may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this code. No person shall interfere with the Building Official or his or
her duly authorized representatives in the execution of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 2-206)
§ 32.61 STOP ORDERS.
   Whenever any building work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
code, the Building Official may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing this work to be done, and
any persons shall forthwith stop work until authorized by the Building Official
to proceed with the work.
(Prior Code, § 2-207)
§ 32.62 OCCUPANCY VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever any structure is being used contrary to the provisions of this
code, the Building Official may order this use discontinued and the structure,
or portion thereof, vacated by notice served on any person causing the use to
be continued. The person shall discontinue the use within ten days after
receipt of the notice or make the structure, or portion thereof, comply with
the requirements of this code; provided, however, that regarding an unsafe
building, § 502 of the state’s Building Code, being Minn. Rules 1311.0502
subpart 502, shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 2-208)
§ 32.63 LIABILITY.
   The Building Official or any employee charged with the enforcement of this
code, acting in good faith and without malice for the city in the discharge of
his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself liable
personally and he or she is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any
damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required
or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his or her duties. Any
suit brought against the Building Official or employer, because of an act or
omission performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provisions of this
code, shall be defended by the city until final termination of the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 2-209)
§ 32.64 COOPERATION OF OTHER OFFICIALS.
   The Building Official may request, and shall receive so far as may be
necessary in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and cooperation
of the other officials of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-210)
CHAPTER 33: CITY FEE SCHEDULE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Schedule for fees, charges and expenses
   
33.02   Establishment of fees
   
33.03   Fees posted and available
City Fee Schedule
   
33.15   Administratively issued permits
   
33.16   Building permits
   
33.17   Conditional use permit
   
33.18   Licenses, fees and other permits
   
33.19   Miscellaneous fees
   
33.20   Park fees
   
33.21   Zoning fees
   
33.22   After the fact fees
   
33.23   Building permit fee table
   
33.24   Sewer fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 SCHEDULE FOR FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   Fees and charges, as well as expenses incurred by the city for
engineering, planning, attorney and other services related to the processing of
applications shall be established by this chapter and collected by the City
Administrator for deposit in the city's accounts.
   (B)   Fees shall be established as follows. The Council may establish
charges for public hearings, special meetings, or other such Council or
Planning Commission actions as are necessary to process applications.
(Prior Code, § 3-1) (Ord. 07-2010, passed 7-20-2010; Ord. 03-2023, passed 5-16-
2023; Ord. 06-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 33.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF FEES.
   (A)   Fees shall be established as follows. The Council may establish
charges for staff time, use of consultants, public hearings, special meetings,
or other such Council or Planning Commission actions as are necessary to
process applications.
   (B)   The fee schedule shall be established and adopted from time to time by
the City Council by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-2) (Ord. 03-2023, passed 5-16-2023; Ord. 06-2023, passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 33.03 FEES POSTED AND AVAILABLE.
   A copy of any resolution adopted by the City Council establishing the
specific fees authorized herein shall be posted or otherwise available at City
Hall during normal business hours.
(Prior Code, § 3-3) (Ord. 03-2010, passed 3-16-2010; Ord. 03-2023, passed 5-16-
2023; Ord. 06-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
CITY FEE SCHEDULE
§ 33.15 ADMINISTRATIVELY ISSUED PERMITS.
   Fees are in addition to any building permit fees.
 Fee Escrow
                                  Fee  Escrow
Administrative permit             $150 $600
Animal kennel                     $60  $200
Design review                     $0
Fence*                            $60  $1,000
Grading permit**                  $250 $1,000
Moving/relocating structure       $75
Sign permit                       $150 $200
Sign permit - temporary/renewal   $25
Small project permit              $25
Tennis court                      $60  $1,000
Vegetative cutting/debris removal      $200
 
(Prior Code, § 3-36)
§ 33.16 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Building permits, other than those specified below, are based on project
valuation. (Please refer to the Building Permit Fee Table in §
33.23 of this code.)
 Fee Escrow
                                                         Fee          Escrow
                                                         $140 to $500
Demolition permit                                        based on     $250
                                                         project
                                                         valuation
                                                         $140 to $500
Exterior door replacement                                based on
                                                         project
                                                         valuation
Mechanical
   A/C, water or garage heater, gas lines, soft water $140
system
   Furnace, HVAC, fireplace                           $140
Other permit not specified                               $140
Plumbing
                                                         1% of the
   Commercial:                                        project
                                                         valuation;
                                                         $75 minimum
   Residential:
      Bathroom including rough-ins                 $140
                                                         $140 to $500
Roof replacement                                         based on
                                                         project
                                                         valuation
                                                         $140 to $500
Siding replacement                                       based on
                                                         project
                                                         valuation
Swimming pool - building permit                          $500
   Admin permit - fence fee and escrow required       *
   Grading permit - often required                    **
Utility permit                                           $250
                                                         $140 to $500
Window replacement                                       based on
                                                         project
                                                         valuation
 
(Prior Code, § 3-37) (Ord. 03-2023, passed 5-16-2023; Ord. 06-2023, passed 8-
15-2023)
§ 33.17 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   As a land use issue, conditional use permit applications must be heard by
the Planning Commission and will be either approved or denied by City Council.
 
                                                                  Fee  Escrow
Conditional use permit                                            $450 $1,000
Conditional use permit - amended                                  $450 $1,000
Conditional use permit - renewal                                  $250 $350
Conditional use permit/renewal/amendment
   To increase impervious surface over 35% in Industrial Distri$450 $1,000
Conditional use permit - tower structures                         $450 $8,000
 
(Prior Code, § 3-38) (Ord. 03-2023, passed 5-16-2023; Ord. 06-2023, passed 8-
15-2023)
§ 33.18 LICENSES, FEES AND OTHER PERMITS.
 Fee Escrow
                                  Fee                                 Escrow
Annual licenses:
Adult entertainment investigation $1,500
Adult entertainment licenses      $10,000 per year
Aircraft (unpowered/powered       $100
vehicles)
Charitable gambling               10% of net gambling profits payable
                                  monthly
Commercial fertilizer license     $200                                $1,000*
(lawns)*
Commercial fertilizer permit      $100
Golf cart
   Business
      Includes first two car$50
      Additional carts/each $10
   Individual                  $25
Pawnbroker investigation: actual  $3,000 maximum
cost
Pawnbroker/secondhand dealer      $100 per year
license
Peddler/solicitor license         $50
Liquor licenses
   2:00 a.m. closing           $100
   Off sale                    $150
   On sale                     $1,400
   On sale - wine only         $750
   Other - temporary           Determined by City Council**
   Sunday                      $200
Short-term home rental license    $250
Solid waste hauler                $100
Tree service license              $25
Biannual licenses:
Dog or cat (altered or with chip  $5
implant)
Dog or cat (non-altered)          $10
*Also requires $1,000 corporate bond
**Temporary fee waived for local non-profit organizations
 
(Prior Code, 3-39) (Ord. 01-2016, passed 1-19-2016; Ord. 03-2023, passed 5-16-
2023; Ord. 06-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 33.19 MISCELLANEOUS FEES.
 Fee
                                   Fee
Animal - impounded/claimed
   Charges due from owner
      Administration fee     $8
      Daily boarding fee     $20
      Impound fee            $95
      Veterinary services    Actual cost
City consultant fees               As billed to the city for phone calls,
                                   site visits, plan reviews and the like
Comprehensive plan                 $50
Copies
   Per 8.5-inch by 11-inch page $0.25
   CD/DVD copy of meeting       $10
   Per 11-inch by 17-inch page  $1
Dockage charge, city dock
   Non-resident (per four-hour  $5
increment)
   City resident (per four-hour $3
increment)
   Overnight                    $20
Election filing fee                $2
Ordinance book                     $100
Returned check                     $35
Zoning code                        $50
 
(Prior Code, § 3-40) (Ord. 03-2023, passed 5-16-2023; Ord. 06-2023, passed 8-
15-2023)
§ 33.20 PARK FEES.
 Fee
                       Fee
Fourth of July:
   Booth permit        $50
   Street vendor       $15
Park reservation fees: Resident     Non-resident
                       Fee  Deposit Fee  Deposit
   Gazebo           $25  $100    $100 $100
   Picnic shelter   $25  $100    $100 $100
   Whole park*      $100 $200    $200 $200
*Does not include playground/play structure
 
(Prior Code, § 3-41) (Ord. 03-2023, passed 5-16-2023; Ord. 06-2023, passed 8-
15-2023)
§ 33.21 ZONING FEES.
 Fee Escrow*
                                                                             Fee            Escrow*
Appeals                                                                      $250           $600
Comprehensive Plan amendment                                                 $450           $1,500
Driveway permit (zoning/engineering)**                                       $250           $1,500
Farm site plan                                                               $50
Grading permit                                                               $250           $1,000
                                                                             125% of the
                                                                             estimated cost
                                                                             to furnish and
Landscape performance bond - industrial*                                     plant required
                                                                             vegetation, as
                                                                             approved by
                                                                             the city
Ordinance amendment                                                          $450           $1,500
Park dedication fee:
                                                                             7.5% of the
                                                                             predevelopment
                                                                             value of the
                                                                             property being
                                                                             subdivided,
                                                                             subject to a
                                                                             minimum fee of
                                                                             $5,000 per
                                                                             dwelling unit
                                                                             and a maximum
                                                                             fee of $10,000
                                                                             per dwelling
   Residential                                                            unit, or that
                                                                             portion of
                                                                             land which
                                                                             could be
                                                                             purchased with
                                                                             the amount of
                                                                             park
                                                                             dedication fee
                                                                             payment owed
                                                                             by the subject
                                                                             subdivision on
                                                                             a per dwelling
                                                                             unit basis.
                                                                             7.5% of the
                                                                             predevelopment
                                                                             value of the
                                                                             property being
                                                                             subdivided,
                                                                             subject to a
                                                                             minimum fee of
                                                                             $5,000 per lot
                                                                             or dwelling
                                                                             unit and a
                                                                             maximum fee of
                                                                             $10,000 per
                                                                             lot or
   Commercial                                                             dwelling unit,
                                                                             or that
                                                                             portion of
                                                                             land which
                                                                             could be
                                                                             purchased with
                                                                             the amount of
                                                                             park
                                                                             dedication fee
                                                                             payment owed
                                                                             by the subject
                                                                             subdivision on
                                                                             a per lot or
                                                                             per dwelling
                                                                             unit basis.
   Industrial                                                             $1,500***
   Previously created lots                                                $500*
Rezoning
   Ag Preserve certification                                              $50
   Comprehensive Plan                                                     $350           $1,500
   From Ag Preserve to Agricultural                                       $350
Subdivision
   Major subdivision: sketch plan and preliminary plat (required for more
than 3 lots and PUDs)
      0 to 5 acres                                                     $500 plus $100 $2,500
                                                                             per lot
      > 5 to 40 acres                                                  $1,000 plus    $5,000
                                                                             $100 per lot
      > 40 to 80 acres                                                 $2,000 plus    $7,500
                                                                             $100 per lot
      > 80 acres                                                       $5,000 plus    $10,000
                                                                             $100 per lot
      Final plat                                                       $250           $1,000
   Minor subdivision                                                      $250           $1,500
   Simple subdivision                                                     $250           $600
Street permit:
   Street opening                                                         $150+***       Waived if
                                                                                            franchise
   Street vacation                                                        $250           $500
Variance                                                                     $450           $600
   Variance extension                                                     $250           $350
* Additional escrow may be required for more complex applications
** Deposit held until final certificate of occupancy issued
*** $150 plus $40 per 100 feet
 
(Prior Code, 3-42) (Ord. 03-2023, passed 5-16-2023; Ord. 06-2023, passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 33.22 AFTER THE FACT FEES.
   In any case in which a property owner, contractor, developer, or applicant
has moved forward with a project involving grading, filling, construction and
the like, prior to obtaining the required permit, CUP, variance, or other
regulatory approval, the fees associated with the project will be tripled.
(Prior Code, § 3-43) (Ord. 06-2010, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 03-2023, passed 5-
16-2023; Ord. 06-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 33.23 BUILDING PERMIT FEE TABLE.
Building Permit Fee Table 2010                        Adopted 2-19-2013
Value MN Surcharge Plan Review / Inspections City Fee Permit Total
Building Permit Fee Table 2010                              Adopted 2-19-2013
Value      MN Surcharge Plan Review / Inspections City Fee  Permit Total
$1,000     $5           $75                       $30       $110
$2,000     $5           $75                       $30       $110
$3,000     $5           $75                       $30       $110
$4,000     $5           $75                       $30       $110
$5,000     $5           $75                       $30       $110
$6,000     $5           $75                       $30       $110
$7,000     $5           $75                       $40.50    $120.50
$8,000     $5           $75                       $57       $137
$9,000     $5           $75                       $73.50    $153.50
$10,000    $5           $75                       $90       $170
$11,000    $5.50        $75                       $106.50   $187
$12,000    $6           $75                       $123      $204
$13,000    $6.50        $78                       $136.50   $221
$14,000    $7           $84                       $147      $238
$15,000    $7.50        $90                       $157.50   $255
$16,000    $8           $96                       $168      $272
$17,000    $8.50        $102                      $178.50   $289
$18,000    $9           $108                      $189      $306
$19,000    $9.50        $114                      $199.50   $323
$20,000    $10          $120                      $210      $340
$25,000    $12.50       $150                      $262.50   $425
$50,000    $25          $300                      $525      $850
$100,000   $50          $600                      $1,050    $1,700
$150,000   $75          $900                      $1,575    $2,550
$200,000   $100         $1,200                    $2,100    $3,400
$250,000   $125         $1,500                    $2,625    $4,250
$300,000   $150         $1,800                    $3,150    $5,100
$350,000   $175         $2,100                    $3,675    $5,950
$400,000   $200         $2,400                    $4,200    $6,800
$401,000   $200.50      $2,406                    $4,210.50 $6,817
$450,000   $225         $2,700                    $4,725    $7,650
$500,000   $250         $3,000                    $5,250    $8,500
$550,000   $275         $3,300                    $5,775    $9,350
$600,000   $300         $3,600                    $6,300    $10,200
$650,000   $325         $3,900                    $6,825    $11,050
$700,000   $350         $4,200                    $7,350    $11,900
$750,000   $375         $4,500                    $7,875    $12,750
$800,000   $400         $4,800                    $8,400    $13,600
$850,000   $425         $5,100                    $8,925    $14,450
$900,000   $450         $5,400                    $9,450    $15,300
$950,000   $475         $5,700                    $9,975    $16,150
$1,000,000 $500         $6,000                    $10,500   $17,000
PROJECTS VALUED OVER $1,000,000
PROJECTS VALUED OVER $1,000,000
Single-family homes:
   $5,000 for the first $1,000,000 and $3 for each additional $1,000 or any
fraction thereof.
Examples:
$1,001,000 $500.50 $5,003 $10,510.50 $16,014
$1,500,000 $750    $6,500 $15,750    $23,000
$2,000,000 $1,000  $8,000 $21,000    $30,000
Multifamily, commercial or industrial property:
The inspection fee for projects in excess of $1,000,000 will be 1% of the
project value.
 
(Prior Code, § 3-44) (Ord. 07-2010, passed 7-20-2010; Ord. 04-2013, passed 2-
19-2013; Ord. 01-2016, passed 1-19-2016)
§ 33.24 SEWER FEES.
 Fee
                                                                              Fee
Penalty fee
   For illegal connection to city sanitary sewer system                    $1,000/
                                                                              month
                                                                              The sewer
   For failure to connect to city sanitary sewer system by 12/31/2024      fee per
                                                                              ERU will
                                                                              be tripled
Sewer connection charge
   Single-family residential properties in the VHS-R District              $14,900
   Single-family residential properties in the VHS-R District in the flood $16,500
zone
   Single-family residential properties on Pennington Avenue               $13,700
   Single-family residential properties on River Road                      $16,100
                                                                              The sewer
                                                                              connection
                                                                              charge
                                                                              will be
   Commercial properties                                                   determined
                                                                              based on
                                                                              the number
                                                                              of ERUs to
                                                                              be added
Sewer fee per equivalent residential unit (ERU)                               $50/month
 
(Ord. 03-2023, passed 5-16-2023; Ord. 06-2023, passed 8-15-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
Collection and Transportation
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   License required
   
50.04   Exceptions
   
50.05   Collection, storage and fees
Recycling
   
50.20   Definitions
   
50.21   Purpose
   
50.22   Separation and storage of recyclables
   
50.23   Collection of recyclables
   
50.24   Disposal of recyclables
   
50.25   Reports to city
 
   
50.99   Penalty
COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the city by licensing and regulating the operation
of solid waste collection services within the city, which licensing and
regulation the City Council hereby determines to be necessary to ensure the
regular collection and transportation of solid waste and to eliminate the
dispersal of solid waste along the streets and other areas in or near the city
and to eliminate other and similar health and safety hazards which the Council
finds now exist or are to be anticipated in the absence of such licensing and
regulation.
(Prior Code, § 18-31)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTION POINT. Any residence, place of business or other place in the
city with respect to which a hauler has been hired for the purpose of
collecting and transporting solid waste therefrom.
   HAULER. Any person engaged in the business of solid waste collection.
   SOLID WASTE.
      (1)   Garbage, rubbish, refuse and other discarded solid materials,
including solid waste materials resulting from industrial, commercial and
agricultural operations, except animal waste used as fertilizer.
      (2)   SOLID WASTE does not include earthen fill, boulders, rock and other
materials normally handled in construction operations, nor any materials which
are recyclable and which are separated from mixed municipal solid waste by the
generator, separately collected and delivered for reuse in their original form
or for use in a manufacturing process pursuant to a contract between the city
and a recycling company.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION. The gathering of solid waste from public or private
places for disposal at an approved site.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SERVICE. A private operation engaged in solid waste
collection and solid waste transportation.
   SOLID WASTE TRANSPORTATION. The conveyance of solid waste from one place to
another, by means of vehicle, rail car, water vessel, conveyor or other means.
(Prior Code, § 18-32)
§ 50.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of solid waste collection within the
city without first having obtained a license from the City Council. Such
license may be issued by the Council for a period of up to five years under the
conditions prescribed by this subchapter and any conditions imposed by the
Council in the licensing agreement, and upon payment of currently required
annual license fee during the term of the license.
(Prior Code, § 18-33) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Licensing of solid waste collection, see M.S. §§ 115A.93 through 115A.9302
§ 50.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   Where upon written application of the responsible person or persons, the
City Council finds that by reason of exceptional circumstances strict
conformity with any provisions of the regulations contained herein would cause
undue hardship, would be unreasonable or impractical under the circumstances,
the City Council may permit a variance from these regulations upon such
conditions and within such time limitations as it may prescribe, and as may be
permitted by other laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 18-34)
§ 50.05 COLLECTION, STORAGE AND FEES.
   All collection and removal of solid waste within the city shall be performed
in accordance with the following regulations.
   (A)   Responsibility for collection.
      (1)   The owner and occupant of any premises, business establishment or
industry shall be responsible for the satisfactory collection and
transportation of all solid waste accumulated at a premises, business
establishment or industry.
      (2)   The owner or occupant shall have a contract for waste collection
services with a hauler licensed by the city, unless the owner or occupant
obtains an exemption from the City Council and ensures that an environmentally
sound alternative is used.
      (3)   In order to obtain a variance or exemption from the requirements of
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2), the owner or occupant of any premises, business
establishment or industry must provide a written application to the City
Council.
      (4)   The owner or occupant must certify in writing to the City Council
that the owner or occupant will ensure that an environmentally sound
alternative to contract collection services is used.
   (B)   Frequency of collections. All garbage and all other solid waste shall
be collected and removed from each collection point at least once a week on a
date to be established by the hauler.
   (C)   Storage of solid waste. The owner and occupant of any premises,
business establishment or industry shall be responsible for the satisfactory
storage of all solid waste accumulated at that premises, business establishment
or industry.
   (D)   Storage of containers. Except on days scheduled for collection,
containers shall be stored out of view of the public street or road.
   (E)   Effect of failure to pay fees. Notwithstanding any provision of this
subchapter to the contrary, no hauler need collect or remove the solid waste
from any collection point if the customer for whom it is being collected is in
default of any payment or payments required to be paid for such service under
the contract or agreement existing between the hauler and such customer.
   (F)   Collection and removal fees. No hauler shall charge a fee for the
collection and removal of solid waste within the city in an amount greater than
that set out in a schedule of rates which shall be adopted by the City Council
by resolution from time to time. In the case of a multiple-family residential
building, the fee for each unit within such building shall not exceed the
amount permitted for service to any single-family residential dwelling. In the
case of commercial or other nonresidential buildings, the hauler may charge a
fee to be established by agreement between him or her and the individual
customer, provided such fee is reasonably related to the rate established
hereunder for collection and removal of solid waste from residential buildings
to the extent the collection and removal service required is comparable.
   (G)   Separation of leaves and grass clippings. All leaves and grass
clippings shall be separated by the homeowner from all other garbage and refuse
accumulated on the premises and shall be composted on the premises or placed
and maintained until removal by the licensed compost collection hauler in
degradable bags, containers or packages provided by the homeowner’s compost
hauler. Degradables shall be defined as any untreated paper bags or
biodegradable or photodegradable plastic bag acceptable to the composting
station used by the licensed compost collection hauler.
(Prior Code, § 18-35) (Res. 1995-1, passed 2-14-1995) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to assess for garbage collection and disposal, see M.S. § 443.015
   Authority to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage and other
refuse, see M.S. § 412.221, subdivision 22
   Waste management, see M.S. Ch. 115A
RECYCLING
§ 50.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLINGS. Those dwellings described in divisions (1) and (2) of the
definition of “premises” below.
   PREMISES.
      (1)   All dwellings now or hereafter located in the city; and
      (2)   All buildings or parts of buildings now or hereafter owned by or
leased to the city and located in the city, except, however, park shelter or
park toilet buildings.
   RECYCLABLES. In addition to divisions (1) through (11) below, any other
material that the city may hereafter be required to collect as a recyclable by
the county. For purposes of this chapter, RECYCLABLES shall not be refuse,
rubbish or waste matter as defined in §
50.02 of this code:
      (1)   Newsprint;
      (2)   Corrugated cardboard;
      (3)   Mixed residential mail;
      (4)   Boxboard;
      (5)   Aluminum and bimetal beverage containers;
      (6)   Brown, clear and green glass;
      (7)   Batteries, auto and tractor only;
      (8)   Food cans;
      (9)   Plastic: All narrow neck bottles with screw-off type caps, type 1
through 5;
      (10)   Magazines: Current periodicals (no catalogues, Reader’s Digest);
and
      (11)   Phone books.
   RESIDENT. Every person who is an owner or occupant of a dwelling, the city
as to the buildings or parts thereof described in division (2) of the
definition of “premises” above.
(Prior Code, § 18-61) (Res. 1996-1, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 50.21 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to require mandatory separation of
recyclables to aid and promote collection thereof and disposal by means other
than deposit in a sanitary landfill or by burning.
(Prior Code, § 18-62) (Res. 1996-1, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 50.22 SEPARATION AND STORAGE OF RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   Every resident of every premises shall separate the recyclables from
his, her or their respective premises from all other refuse, garbage, rubbish
and waste matter as defined in §
50.02 of this code and shall store the recyclables separately in containers
designated as containers for the storage of recyclables.
   (B)   Containers for storage of recyclables shall be kept in the same
location as is designated by §
50.05 of this code for refuse containers; however, residents of dwellings, no
earlier than 12 hours prior to the day for scheduled collection of recyclables
from their respective dwellings, shall place adjacent to the dwelling or garage
accessory thereto and visible from the street in front of the dwelling, or from
the alley by the dwelling if that dwelling has refuse collection service at the
alley. After the scheduled collection, the containers for recyclables and any
recyclables not collected shall be returned by the resident of the dwelling to
the same location as containers for refuse are kept as designated by §
50.02 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 18-63) (Res. 1996-1, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 50.23 COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   Collection of recyclables from premises shall be by a hauler selected
and duly licensed by the city. Also, such collection shall be done in
compliance with all other applicable ordinances of the city now or hereafter in
effect.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above notwithstanding, the city, at any
time, and from time to time, may contract with a hauler for collection of
recyclables from some or all premises, and if the city so contracts, the
recyclables shall be collected from the premises covered by such contract by
the collector under contract with the city and on terms and conditions set out
in such contract.
   (C)   Neither the provisions of divisions (A) or (B) above or any other
provisions of this subchapter shall prevent any resident from disposing of that
resident’s recyclables without the use of a paid hauler or the city collector,
but the provisions of §
50.24 of this code shall be complied with by such resident.
(Prior Code, § 18-64) (Res. 1996-1, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 50.24 DISPOSAL OF RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   Recyclables collected from premises shall not, in any event, be:
      (1)   Deposited in any landfill;
      (2)   Burned in any incinerator; or
      (3)   Deposited or distributed in any way or manner which is contrary to
the applicable law, statute, ordinance, rule or regulation.
   (B)   Provided, however, the restrictions of divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2)
above shall not apply to any recyclables which are deposited in a landfill or
burned pursuant to specific prior written approval granted by the county and
consented to, in writing, by the city. Residents shall take such action as is
reasonable under the circumstances to determine that recyclables are not
disposed of contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 18-65) (Res. 1996-1, passed 1-16-1996) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 REPORTS TO CITY.
   (A)   As and when requested by the city from time to time, the city shall
require the haulers of its respective recyclables to keep complete and accurate
records of the total tons of recyclables collected each month from their
respective premises, together with the actual weight or percentage of the total
that each recyclable material represents, and the markets used for the sale of,
and primary purchasers of, such recyclables. Such records shall be sent to the
city, when requested by the city.
   (B)   The city also shall prepare or require its haulers to prepare and
submit to the city, at the request of the city, such other reports, data and
information relative to the separation, collection and disposal of recyclables
as may be required by any statute, law, ordinance, rule or regulation now or
hereafter be requested of the city by the county. All such records, reports,
data and information, once received by the city, shall become the property of
the city to be used as it shall determine without obligation to any person.
(Prior Code, § 18-66) (Res. 1996-1, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Sections
50.01 through
50.05 may be enforced under M.S. §§ 115.071 and 116.072, as they may be amended
from time to time. In addition, any individual or business who fails to comply
with the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 18-36)
   (C)   Any person violating §§
50.20 through
50.25 of this code shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be
punished, upon conviction, as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 18-67)
(Res. 1996-1, passed 1-16-1996)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State law compliance
Vehicle Operation
   
70.15   Unnecessary acceleration of motor vehicle
   
70.16   Bicycle, hiking trails
   
70.17   Self-propelled devices
   
70.18   Designation of roadways as restricted
Parking
   
70.30   Definitions
   
70.31   Obedience required
   
70.32   Maximum parking time
   
70.33   Parking during snow-removal period
   
70.34   Removal of vehicles in violation
   
70.35   Liability for damages
Privately-Owned Parking Lots and Areas
   
70.50   Manner of driving generally
   
70.51   Maximum speed
   
70.52   Parking of vehicles
   
70.53   Notice of collision
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate parking, see M.S. § 169.04(a)(1)
   Powers of local authorities regarding traffic, see M.S. § 169.04
   Special vehicle use on roadway, see M.S. § 169.045
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE LAW COMPLIANCE.
   All traffic regulations shall be followed pursuant to M.S. Ch. 169, as it
may be amended from time to time. Nothing in this section should be construed
to conflict with traffic regulations per state statute.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 06-2012, passed 8-21-2012)
VEHICLE OPERATION
§ 70.15 UNNECESSARY ACCELERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall start or accelerate any motor vehicle with an
unnecessary exhibition of speed on any public or private way within the city
limits.
   (B)   Prima facie evidence of unnecessary exhibition of speed shall be the
squealing or screeching sounds emitted by the tires or the throwing of sand or
gravel by the tires of the vehicle, or both.
(Prior Code, § 22-31) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 BICYCLE, HIKING TRAILS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any motorized vehicle upon any public
bicycle trail or public hiking trail within the limits of the city.
   (B)   The use of snowmobiles will be permitted on the public bicycle and
hiking trail between November 1 of each year and April 1 of the next year
inclusive, provided that the trail is snow-covered. The period of time during
which snowmobiles may be used on the trails may be increased or decreased by
action of the City Council published in the official newspaper of the city
designating the inclusive dates when the use of snowmobiles shall be permitted
on the trails. All provisions of the Highway Traffic Regulations Act, M.S. Ch.
169, as it may be amended from time to time, and all ordinances of the city,
regulating traffic shall apply to the operation of bicycles on the trails.
(Prior Code, § 22-32) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 SELF-PROPELLED DEVICES.
   (A)   General. The City Council may, by resolution, prohibit the operation
of self-propelled devices within areas of the city, provided that the
resolution is recommended by the Sheriff and the City Council finds that the
prohibition is necessary to protect pedestrians, or to eliminate hazards.
(Prior Code, § 22-33)
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the public health
and safety arising out of the use of skateboards, roller skates, rollerblades
and roller skis within the city; to regulate the use thereof upon public
streets and sidewalks; to prohibit the same from parking lots on commercially
zoned land; and to provide penalties for violations. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to prohibit the use of a wheelchair or other wheeled devices
designed to assist disabled persons on sidewalks or public or private parking
lots.
(Prior Code, § 22-34)
   (C)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SELF-PROPELLED DEVICES. A non-motorized platform, footboard, ski-like
device, shoe, boot or similar object mounted on wheels and designed and
intended to propel the rider by human power or force or by gravity, including,
but not limited to: skateboards; roller skis; scooters; roller skates and in-
line skates. The definition does not include a wheelchair operated by a
disabled person; bicycles; wagons or strollers.
(Prior Code, § 22-35)
   (D)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   No person may attach a rider of any self-propelled device to any
motor vehicle upon a street or roadway in the city.
      (2)   No person in a motor vehicle may closely follow a skateboarder so
that a safe distance is not maintained between the vehicle and the
skateboarder.
      (3)   People using self-propelled devices may not obstruct any sidewalk,
lane, alley, public ground, public landing, wharf or pier or any other public
place by placing any building materials, carriages, carts, boxes, lumber,
firewood, posts or rails or any other materials or substances whatsoever to be
used as ramps or guides for other skateboards or other self-propelled devices.
      (4)   People using self-propelled devices may not obstruct any public
street in a manner that impedes traffic.
      (5)   No person may ride or propel a self-propelled device on any
sidewalk, public street or public walkway within the city, in a manner that
endangers or is likely to endanger other persons or property.
      (6)   Use of a self-propelled device is forbidden on the private property
of another without the written permission of the owner. The document granting
permission shall be available for presentation to law enforcement.
      (7)   All riders must slow to a speed that is reasonable for conditions
of traffic, be able to stop if necessary and yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian upon any public way. Riders must yield to motor vehicles when
crossing roadways.
      (8)   Operators or riders of self-propelled devices shall yield the
right-of-way to other pedestrians using the city sidewalks and shall not
otherwise endanger or interfere with pedestrian traffic on those sidewalks.
      (9)   Self-propelled devices may not be operated contrary to the
statutory provisions applicable to the operation of bicycles.
      (10)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or ride a self-
propelled device (skateboard, roller skates, roller skis, roller blades) on any
public property where signs prohibit this use.
(Prior Code, § 22-36)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 DESIGNATION OF ROADWAYS AS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   The city may designate by resolution certain roadways as restricted
and may impose limitations on the types and speed of vehicles thereon, either
permanently or temporarily as it deems necessary, in instances where it finds
the interest of public safety requires a restriction.
   (B)   The city may, in its discretion, allow by permit the use of restricted
roadways where it finds that necessity requires it and any danger or hazard to
public safety can be reasonably mitigated.
(Ord. 10-2021, passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING
§ 70.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled motor vehicle or other vehicle on wheels
which would ordinarily travel on public streets.
   OWNER. Any person owning, renting or having charge of a motor vehicle.
   SNOW-REMOVAL PERIOD. A period of time of no more than 48 hours after each
snowfall; except that the SNOW-REMOVAL PERIOD shall be deemed to have
terminated on those streets on which snow has been removed if the removal has
been completed in a period of time less than 48 hours.
   STREET. Any street, avenue or other public way in the city.
(Prior Code, § 22-56)
§ 70.31 OBEDIENCE REQUIRED.
   The owner of any vehicle parked or left standing upon any street, within the
corporate limits of the city shall conform to and observe the regulations set
forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 22-57)
§ 70.32 MAXIMUM PARKING TIME.
   No vehicle will be left standing or parked at the curb of any street or on
any public place within the corporate limits of this city for more than 48
continuous hours.
(Prior Code, § 22-58) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 PARKING DURING SNOW-REMOVAL PERIOD.
   No person, except physicians or emergency calls or other emergency vehicles,
shall park on any street in the city during a snow-removal period.
(Prior Code, § 22-59) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon the street
or highway in violation of this subchapter, the officer is hereby authorized to
move the vehicle, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to remove the same, to a position off the street.
   (B)   (1)   If the owner or operator of the vehicle is not available to
remove the vehicle, it shall be towed away from the parking place at the
direction of the County Sheriff’s Department and the owner of the vehicle,
prior to having the same returned to him or her, shall pay the cost of the
towing plus the cost of storage until claimed by owner.
      (2)   The payment of the sums shall be prerequisite for the return of the
vehicle to the person entitled thereto.
(Prior Code, § 22-60) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   Any damage occasioned to any vehicle found in violation of this subchapter
by towing operations or the storage of the vehicle thereafter, shall be assumed
by the owner or operator hereof, and no liability for damage shall be assumed
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 22-61)
PRIVATELY-OWNED PARKING LOTS AND AREAS
§ 70.50 MANNER OF DRIVING GENERALLY.
   All operation and driving of motor vehicles on privately-owned parking lots
and areas shall be done in a careful manner so that no sudden starting or
erratic movement of the vehicle is deliberately engaged in by the driver. It
shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle upon the lot in
any manner that would constitute careless driving if done on a public street.
No person shall engage in any drag racing or exhibition driving on any parking
lot or area.
(Prior Code, § 22-96) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.51 MAXIMUM SPEED.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any privately-owned parking lot
or area within the city at a speed greater than is safe and reasonable under
the conditions of traffic then existing therein; and in no event shall any
vehicle be operated in excess of a speed of 15 mph.
(Prior Code, § 22-97) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.52 PARKING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Parking of vehicles on privately-owned parking lots and areas shall
conform to the markings of stalls or positions for parking which are designated
on the surface of the parking area.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or allowed to stand in any area of the
parking lot which has been designated or is used as a lane for moving traffic
so that the parking will interfere with the movement of traffic therein.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be parked for a continuous period longer than 24
hours in any parking lot or area.
(Prior Code, § 22-98) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.53 NOTICE OF COLLISION.
   If any person who drives a motor vehicle upon a parking lot or area becomes
involved in a collision between the vehicle he or she is driving and any other
vehicle or vehicles, parking upon the lot, the driver shall leave a notice upon
each unattended vehicle with which he or she has collided, giving his or her
name, address and license number. Failure on the part of any person to comply
with this section shall constitute a violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 22-99) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor according to §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 22-37) (Ord. 06-2012, passed 8-21-2012)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles and All-Terrain Vehicles
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   ATVs; general restrictions
   
71.03   Snowmobiles; general restrictions
   
71.04   Application of traffic provisions
   
71.05   Operation on roadway restricted
   
71.06   Where operation prohibited
   
71.07   Crossing roadways
   
71.08   Night operation restricted
   
71.09   Operating restrictions; speed; equipment
   
71.10   Protection of animals
   
71.11   Speed limits
   
71.12   Minors
   
71.13   Identification pennant
   
71.14   Towing
   
71.15   Leaving vehicle unattended
   
71.16   Emergency operation
Motorized Golf Carts
   
71.30   Adoption by reference of state statute
   
71.31   Motorized golf carts on city streets
   
71.32   Issuing officer
   
71.33   Requirements for permit
   
71.34   Operation requirements; emblem; disabled vehicle
   
71.35   Assumption of liability
   
71.36   Initial fee
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate off-road vehicles, see M.S. § 84.804(6)
   Authority to regulate snowmobiles, see M.S. § 84.87(3)
   Authority to regulate the operation of motorized golf carts and all-terrain
vehicles, see M.S. § 169.045
   Powers of local authorities regarding traffic, see M.S. § 169.04
   Special vehicle use on roadway, see M.S. § 169.045
SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV). Trail bikes, minibikes, amphibious vehicles and
similar devices other than snowmobiles used at least partially for travel on
natural terrain but not “special mobile equipment” defined in M.S. § 168.002,
subdivision 31, as it may be amended from time to time.
   NATURAL TERRAIN. Areas other than roadways or driveways (private or public),
parking lots and other areas that the surface of which has been intentionally
modified for motor vehicle operation thereon.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile or ATV.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile or ATV.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder having the property in or title to
snowmobile or ATV entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a highway or street in
which the public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow, ice or
natural terrain steering by skis, wheels or runners.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare, roadway, alley or trail used for motor
vehicular traffic which is not an interstate, truck, county state aid or county
highway.
(Prior Code, § 22-136)
§ 71.02 ATVS; GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   Except as specifically permitted and authorized in this subchapter, it is
unlawful for any person to operate an ATV within the limits of the city on the
right-of-way of any public highway, street, road, trail or alley used for motor
vehicle travel.
(Prior Code, § 22-137) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 SNOWMOBILES; GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   Except as herein specifically permitted and authorized in this subchapter,
it is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile on the right-of-way of
any public highway, street, road, trail or alley used for motor vehicle travel.
(Prior Code, § 22-138) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC PROVISIONS.
   City traffic ordinances shall apply to the operation of snowmobiles upon
streets and highways, except for those relating to required equipment, and
except those which by their nature have no application.
(Prior Code, § 22-139)
§ 71.05 OPERATION ON ROADWAY RESTRICTED.
   Except as specifically permitted in this subchapter, it is unlawful for any
person to operate a snowmobile within the right-of-way of any trunk, county
state aid, county highway or city street except in the ditch or outside bank or
slope of the right-of-way, and in the same direction as the highway traffic on
the nearest lane of the roadway adjacent thereto. Where no ditch exists,
snowmobiles may be operated only on the right-hand side of the right-of-way,
and in no event on the roadway or shoulder, except as needed to cross a
roadway, in compliance with §
71.07 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 22-141) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 WHERE OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   The operation of a snowmobile or ATV is specifically prohibited on the
following locations:
   (A)   Within the right-of-way of any county state aid highway designated as
a natural preservation route;
   (B)    Within the Village Historic Site, Residential (VHS-R) and Village
Historic Site, Commercial (VHS-C) Districts, except for loading or unloading of
a snowmobile or ATV;
   (C)   On boulevards within any public right-of-way;
   (D)   On public property, playgrounds and recreation areas, except areas
specifically listed or authorized for use by the City Council, in which case,
the use shall be lawful and snowmobiles or ATVs may be driven to and from the
areas by the shortest route. Authorized areas in the city shall be designated
by resolution of the City Council;
   (E)   On any other public property except as may be specifically permitted
by other provisions of this code;
   (F)   Within 100 feet of any dwelling;
   (G)   Within 200 feet of any church property during the hours of church
services and during the hours of other church functions;
   (H)   Within 100 feet of any fisherman, pedestrian, skating rink or sliding
area where the operation would conflict with the use or endanger other persons
or property;
   (I)   On private property of another unless the land is clearly posted so as
to allow the operation of snowmobiles or ATVs in compliance with M.S. § 84.90,
as it may be amended from time to time, or unless written permission has been
otherwise obtained from the owner or person in control of the property. Written
permission must be in the immediate possession of the person operating the
snowmobile or ATV; and
   (J)   Within the right-of-way of 22nd Street after March 1, 2004.
(Prior Code, § 22-142) (Ord. 1997-49, passed 1-15-2002; Res. 2004-13, passed 2-
17-2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 CROSSING ROADWAYS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to prohibit a snowmobile or ATV
from making a direct crossing of a street or highway from and to property where
the operation of the snowmobiles or ATV is otherwise legal and permitted,
provided:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
   (B)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the shoulder
or main traveled way of the street or highway;
   (C)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard;
   (D)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of the highway with another public street or highway;
   (E)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on; and
   (F)   A snowmobile may be operated upon a bridge when required for the
purpose of avoiding obstructions to travel when no other method of avoidance is
possible; provided the snowmobile is crossing from and to property where the
operation of a snowmobile is operated in the extreme right-hand lane, the
entrance to the roadway is made within 100 feet of the bridge and the crossing
is made without undue delay.
(Prior Code, § 22-143)
§ 71.08 NIGHT OPERATION RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile on
city streets during the hours from 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 22-144) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 OPERATING RESTRICTIONS; SPEED; EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile or
ATV within the limits of the city:
   (A)   While under the influence of alcohol or a controlled substance. A
person in control of operating a snowmobile or ATV under the influence of
alcohol or a controlled substance is governed by the prohibitions and chemical
testing requirements of M.S. Ch. 84, as it may be amended from time to time,
and is punishable in accordance with that chapter;
   (B)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the
given surrounding circumstances;
   (C)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or to cause injury or damage thereto;
   (D)   Without a lighted head and taillight when required for safety; or
   (E)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock.
(Prior Code, § 22-145) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 PROTECTION OF ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful to drive, chase, run over or kill any animal with a
snowmobile or ATV.
(Prior Code, § 22-146) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 SPEED LIMITS.
   Within the corporate limits of the old platted village, the speed limit must
not exceed 15 mph.
(Prior Code, § 22-147)
§ 71.12 MINORS.
   (A)   No person under 14 years of age shall operate a snowmobile or ATV on
streets or the roadway surface of highways or make a direct crossing of a
trunk, county state aid, county highway or city street.
   (B)   Persons 14 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may
operate a snowmobile on streets and highways as permitted under this subchapter
and make a direct crossing of streets or highways only if they have in their
immediate possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued by the
commissioner, as provided by M.S. § 84.872, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile or ATV to permit the
snowmobile or ATV to be operated contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 22-148) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 IDENTIFICATION PENNANT.
   It is unlawful to drive or operate any snowmobile or ATV any place within
the limits of the city unless it is equipped with a pennant flag of red or
blaze material, of a size not less than 12 inches by nine inches, at a height
of not less than four feet from ground level at any time when the vehicle is
operated on public streets.
(Prior Code, § 22-149) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 TOWING.
   It is unlawful to drive or operate any snowmobile or ATV so as to tow any
person or thing except through use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of
the snowmobile or ATV.
(Prior Code, § 22-150) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.15 LEAVING VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile or ATV at a public place shall lock the
ignition, remove and take the key with him or her.
(Prior Code, § 22-151)
§ 71.16 EMERGENCY OPERATION.
   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this subchapter, a snowmobile or ATV may
be operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time
when, and at locations where, snow upon the roadway renders travel by
automobile impractical.
(Prior Code, § 22-152)
MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS
§ 71.30 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE OF STATE STATUTE.
   Except as herein specifically addressed or modified, the provisions of M.S.
§ 169.045, as it may be amended from time to time, are herewith incorporated by
reference.
(Prior Code, § 22-161)
§ 71.31 MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS ON CITY STREETS.
   (A)   The state legislature has authorized the use of motorized golf carts
on designated roadways within a city, on streets under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   The City Council sees the need to limit the availability of access to
city streets and roadways using golf carts to persons who are over the age of
16, who have possessed a valid driver’s license in the past, or who currently
possess a valid driver’s license, and who are physically disabled as herein
defined, consistent with this subchapter and all other laws and regulations
applicable, making it difficult or impossible for the person to operate a
standard motor vehicle, without modifications to the vehicle, within the city.
   (C)   The intent of this subchapter is to allow businesses and residents
within the Old Village Historic Downtown to access the downtown area of the
city by use of a motorized golf cart, consistent with this subchapter and all
other laws and regulations that apply. The City Council desires no motorized
golf carts shall be operated on top of the city levee and trailway nor on any
sidewalk private or public.
(Prior Code, § 22-162)
§ 71.32 ISSUING OFFICER.
   (A)   The City Council shall authorize the issuing of all permits and shall
determine the streets or roadways of operation and the hours of operation if
more restrictive than state statute and deemed necessary for public safety
reasons and may recommend the denial of a permit if the applicant’s driving
status is revoked, suspended or cancelled for prior violations or in the case
of a business (for the use by its guests or employees) the business shall
ensure the individual operator, the person(s) allowed to operate the motorized
golf cart, has neither had his, her or their driving status revoked, suspended
or cancelled.
   (B)   The City Administrator, Sheriff or designee may revoke a permit at any
time upon finding that the holder has violated any of the provisions of this
subchapter or M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to time, or if there
is any evidence that the permit holder cannot safely operate the motorized golf
cart.
(Prior Code, § 22-163) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.33 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT.
   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the city
and shall contain the information listed below. All permits shall be issued for
a specific golf cart and a specific individual. The permit shall be carried in
the vehicle, indicating the number and year for which issued:
   (A)   All motorized golf carts and their drivers must carry liability
insurance at all times when operating on a public street or roadway. A
certificate of insurance must be provided at the time of permit application;
   (B)   Model name, make, year and serial number of the motorized golf cart is
required;
   (C)   Name and address of applicant, and current driver’s license (for a
business: the business name and address and proof of insurance is all that is
required) or reason for not having a current license is required;
   (D)   As a condition of obtaining a permit, the applicant may be required to
submit a physician’s certificate stating the applicant is able to safely
operate a motorized golf cart on designated streets or roadways;
   (E)   The applicant shall present a certificate signed by a competent and
experienced mechanic indicating the golf cart is in good mechanical condition,
complete with rear view mirror, lights, (including brake lights, head lights
and turn signals), brakes and a slow moving vehicle emblem and that it is safe
for transportation of passengers; and
   (F)   Other pertinent information as may be required.
(Prior Code, § 22-164)
§ 71.34 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS; EMBLEM; DISABLED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Motorized golf carts must display the slow moving vehicle emblem
provided for in M.S. § 169.522, as it may be amended from time to time, when
operated on a public streets or roadway.
   (B)   Every operator has all the rights and duties applicable to the driver
of any other vehicle under the provisions of M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended
from time to time, except when these provisions cannot reasonably be applied to
motorized golf carts and except as otherwise specifically provided in M.S. §
169.045, subdivision 7, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Motorized golf carts may only be operated on streets and roadways as
designated on the permit authorized by the City Council. No motorized golf
carts shall be permitted to operate on the levee or levee trailway or any
sidewalk be it public and/or private. The operator may cross any highway
intersecting a designated street or roadway.
   (D)   Hours of permitted operation shall be from sunrise to sunset.
Operation of a golf cart shall not be permitted during inclement weather or
when visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions or at
any time wherein there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and
vehicles on the street or roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (E)   If a licensed golf cart is disabled through mechanical failure or for
needed repairs, the permit may be temporarily transferred to another golf cart
for a seven-day period, but only upon verification of mechanical condition and
insurance coverage of the substitute vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 22-165)
§ 71.35 ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as an assumption of liability
by the city for any injuries to persons or property which may result from the
operation of a motorized golf cart by a permit holder or the failure by the
City Administrator, Sheriff or designee to revoked the permit.
(Prior Code, § 22-166)
§ 71.36 INITIAL FEE.
   The city may charge an initial application fee of $25 per individual (for a
residence) or $50 per business (for up two carts, each additional cart shall
add on $10 onto the application fee). The annual permit fee must be paid prior
to issuance of permit. The permit fee may be adjusted upon annual review by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 22-167)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of §§
71.01 through
71.16 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction,
shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 22-140)
   (C)   Violation of any provision of §§
71.30 through
71.36 of this chapter shall be punishable as a misdemeanor according to §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 22-168)
(Ord. 4-2006, passed 5-16-2006; Ord. 09-2013, passed 10-15-2013)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   ENVIRONMENT
      
92.   PARKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   CEMETERIES
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Prohibition
   
90.02   Enumeration
   
90.03   Abatement
   
90.04   Assessment of cost
Junk Vehicles
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   Storing, keeping prohibitions
   
90.17   Exemptions
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see M.S. §§ 168B.01 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall cause or permit any nuisance to exist or to be maintained
upon property situated in the whole or in part within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 ENUMERATION.
   Nuisances prohibited by this subchapter include the following:
   (A)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use of or
rendering dangerous a public street, alley, sidewalk or other public property;
   (B)   The maintenance of any tree or shrub, which causes damage to any
public sewer, street, alley, sidewalk or other public property;
   (C)   The allowing of rain, water, ice or snow to fall from any building
onto, or to flow across any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public
property;
   (D)   To pump a cesspool so as to allow the contents thereof to flow onto
another’s private property or any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
property; and
   (E)   The doing of any act which may alter or affect the drainage on, onto
or from public streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public property, including
but not limited to the placing of driveways, driveway entrances or culverts.
(Prior Code, § 10-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 ABATEMENT.
   Upon any nuisance being found in the city, the City Council may, by majority
vote, order the owner, lessee or occupant or any person having care or control
of any lot or land to abate the nuisance and shall issue a written notice to
the person allowing five days after the service of notice to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-28)
§ 90.04 ASSESSMENT OF COST.
   If the nuisance is not abated within five days in compliance with the
notice, the City Council shall cause the nuisance to be abated and shall
recover the actual cost thereof, plus an additional 25% of the expenditure, by
civil action against the person or persons served; or, if service of notice of
assessment of the cost has been made upon the record owner, as shown on the
records of the County Auditor, by ordering the Clerk to extend the sum, plus
25% thereof as a special tax against the property upon which the nuisance
existed and to certify the same to the County Auditor for collection in the
same manner as taxes and special assessments are certified and collected.
(Prior Code, § 10-29)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to define and abate nuisances, see M.S. § 412.221, subdivision 23
   Nuisances generally, see M.S. §§ 561.01 et seq.
JUNK VEHICLES
§ 90.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, former motor vehicle or part of motor
vehicle which is unusable or inoperable because of lack of, or defects in
component parts, or damage from collision, deterioration or other factors, or
is not properly licensed for operation in the state, unless allowed by one of
the exemptions in §
90.17 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 22-171)
§ 90.16 STORING, KEEPING PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall cause or permit the parking, storing or keeping of a junk
vehicle on any property within the city unless the vehicle is stored within an
enclosed garage.
(Prior Code, § 22-172) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.17 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A classic or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. § 168.10, as it may be
amended from time to time, shall not be considered a junk motor vehicle within
the meaning of this subchapter as long as it has substantial potential further
use consistent with its usual functions, and provided that any classic or
pioneer car which is stored in the open shall be covered with an opaque cover
designed or molded or otherwise fitted to the vehicle.
   (B)   A vehicle which is registered to the owner or occupant of the property
where it is parked or kept, and which is being kept for repair on that
property, provided that the vehicle is kept for no longer than 90 days in a
disabled condition and its condition does not present a hazard, and provided
that only one disabled vehicle may be kept on the property outside of an
enclosed garage at any given time.
(Prior Code, § 22-173)
CHAPTER 91: ENVIRONMENT
Section
Groundwater and Surface Waters Protection
   
91.01   Intent and purpose
   
91.02   Statutory authorization and policy
   
91.03   Jurisdiction
   
91.04   Correlation with other political units of government
   
91.05   Interpretation
   
91.06   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
91.07   Definitions
   
91.08   Fertilizers, pesticides and other herbicides restricted
   
91.09   Commercial lawn fertilizer applicators; regulations
   
91.10   Enforcement
Open Burning
   
91.25   Purpose
   
91.26   Definition
   
91.27   Recreational fires
   
91.28   Burning ban
   
91.29   Extinguishing fires
   
91.30   Responsibility
   
91.31   Public nuisance
Composting and Recycling
   
91.45   Purpose
   
91.46   Definitions
   
91.47   Compostable or recyclable single-use food service ware required
Hauling and Disposal of Snow
   
91.60   Intent and purpose
   
91.61   Prohibition of hauling and disposal of snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GROUNDWATER AND SURFACE WATERS PROTECTION
§ 91.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Regulating permitted uses in the city and the use of certain lawn care
practices. The use of certain lawn care practices within the city will be
regulated to: preserve and enhance the water quality of the lakes, ponds,
wetlands, creeks and St. Croix River; prevent erosion into these water bodies;
fix nutrients; preserve shoreland aesthetics; preserve historic values; prevent
bank slumping; protect fish and wildlife habitat and preserve the economic and
natural environmental values of the surface waters and underground waters of
the city to the best of its ability; and
   (B)   Conserving and developing natural resources, and maintaining a high
standard of environmental quality.
(Prior Code, § 10-66)
§ 91.02 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND POLICY.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the
authorization and policies contained in M.S. Ch. 103A, as it may be amended
from time to time, Minn. Rules parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900, and the
planning and zoning enabling legislation in M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The uncontrolled use of the waters and shorelands within the city
affects the public heath, safety and general welfare by contributing to
pollution of public waters and degradation of the environmental and aesthetic
values and by impairing the local tax base.
      (2)   Also, the inability of local land use controls on areas where there
is sensitivity to pollution of the bedrock aquifers and water table aquifers
can greatly lead to the degradation of the groundwater. Therefore, it is in the
best interest in the public health, safety and general welfare to provide for
the wise development, use and conservation of the land and waters with the
city.
      (3)   Furthermore, the state legislature has delegated responsibility to
local governments of the state to regulate the subdivision, development and use
of shorelands of public waters and thus to preserve and enhance the quality of
surface waters, to manage the effects of shoreland crowding, to conserve the
economic, historic and natural environmental values of shorelands and to
provide for the wise use of waters and related land resources. This
responsibility is hereby recognized by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-67)
§ 91.03 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the entire city due to the fact
that all lands drain runoff or surface water directly or indirectly into the
lakes, streams and tributaries of the St. Croix River.
(Prior Code, § 10-68)
§ 91.04 CORRELATION WITH OTHER POLITICAL UNITS OF GOVERNMENT.
   In addition to the following provisions as set forth in this subchapter, all
property owners shall also abide by M.S. Ch. 18C, as it may be amended from
time to time, as well as any related WMO and Watershed District’s rules and
regulations in respect to groundwater and surface water protection.
(Prior Code, § 10-68)
§ 91.05 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this subchapter
shall be held as minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in favor
of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other powers granted by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 10-68)
§ 91.06 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   The restrictions set forth in this subchapter do not apply to flower or
vegetable gardens less than 1,000 in square feet, except if they are within the
buffer zone. In addition, all agriculture, rural or suburban, uses shall be
exempt from this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-68)
§ 91.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUFFER ZONE. The 200-foot wide strip of land, measured at a right angle to
the shoreline or the ordinary high water level, adjacent to every lake, pond,
wetland, creek, river or standing water surface.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Agriculture.
   FERTILIZER. A substance containing one or more recognized plant nutrients
that is used for its plant nutrient content and designed for use or claimed to
have value in promoting plant growth. FERTILIZER does not include animal and
vegetable manures that are not manipulated, marl, lime, limestone and other
products exempted by rule by the Commissioner.
   FLOWER OR VEGETABLE GARDENS. The use of land for growing or showing plants
and vegetables for private use or consumption.
   HALF-LIFE. The period of time it takes for one-half of the amount of
pesticide in the soil to degrade.
   LOT. A parcel of land designed by plat, metes and bounds, registered land
survey, auditor’s plat or other accepted means, and separated from other
parcels or portions by the description for the purpose of sale, lease or
separation.
   PESTICIDE. Insecticides, herbicides and fungicides.
   QUICK-RELEASE NITROGEN. Ammonium nitrate, ammonium sulfate, creek or river
within the city.
   SLOW-RELEASE NITROGEN. IBDU (isobutylidene diurea), sulfur-coated or resin-
coated urea, ureaformaldehyde, bio-sludge from a WWTP and natural organics such
as milorganite, ringer, sustane, manure, grass clippings, phosphate rock,
potash and sewage sludge from the wastewater treatment plant.
(Prior Code, § 10-69)
§ 91.08 FERTILIZERS, PESTICIDES AND OTHER HERBICIDES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Fertilizers.
      (1)   Fertilizing is prohibited between November 15 and April 1 due to
frozen soil conditions. Lot owners who fertilize should have their soil tested
at least once every three years by a soil test laboratory such as the
University of Minnesota to determine the proper amounts of nitrogen and
potassium to be applied.
      (2)   Fertilizer, yard waste or grass clippings must not be cast up or
applied to an impervious surface such as a driveway, sidewalk or street. If
this material is inadvertently spilled upon a surface, it should be swept and
cleaned from the surface or piled in drainage ways. Whenever possible property
owners shall use fertilizers with a half-life of seven days. A listing of
fertilizers which meet this requirement of this subchapter will be available at
the City Hall.
      (3)   The use of fertilizer on vegetable or flower gardens is prohibited
in the buffer zone.
   (B)   Compost sites. Compost sites shall not be permitted within any buffer
zone.
   (C)   Phosphorus.
      (1)   General. Fertilizers containing phosphorus are prohibited on lawns
unless the soil is demonstrably phosphorus deficient. Phosphorus may be applied
if the following conditions apply or are met:
         (a)   A tissue, soil or other test by a laboratory or method approved
by the Commissioner and performed within the last three years indicates that
the level of available phosphorus in the soil is insufficient to support
healthy turf growth;
         (b)   The property owner or an agent of the property owner is first
establishing turf via seed or sod procedures, and only during the first growing
season;
         (c)   The fertilizer containing the plant food phosphorus is used on a
golf course under the direction of a person licensed, certified or approved by
an organization with an ongoing training program approved by the Commissioner;
and
         (d)   Applications of phosphorus fertilizer authorized under divisions
(C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(c) above must not exceed rates recommended by the
University of Minnesota and approved by the Commissioner.
      (2)   Flower and vegetable gardens. Fertilizer containing no more than 3%
phosphorus is permitted on flower and vegetable gardens not located within the
designated buffer zone.
   (D)   Nitrogen.
      (1)   Application of more than two pounds actual nitrogen per 1,000
square feet of lawn per year on low maintenance lawns applied at one pound in
the spring and one pound in the fall and of more than four pounds actual
nitrogen per 1,000 square feet of lawn per year on high maintenance lawns
applied at two pounds in the spring and two pounds in the fall is prohibited
unless the lot owner has a written recommendation from a competent professional
based upon a reliable soil test for higher nitrogen applications.
      (2)   Only 50% controlled slow-release nitrogen organic fertilizer may be
used. The use of quick-release nitrogen is prohibited.
      (3)   If nitrogen is applied at rates greater than those specified in
division (D)(1) above, the lot owner must provide copies of the written
recommendation required therein to the City Forester.
   (E)   Pesticides (insecticides, herbicides and fungicides).
      (1)   The use of chemical pesticides shall be in accordance with their
label.
      (2)   Before using chemical pesticides, the lot owner must consult the
state’s extension services, the county’s Conservation District or other
competent professional to diagnose properly the pests, disease or other
vegetative problems, and to determine if pesticide use is justified or if there
are other control options.
      (3)   When consultation as provided under division (E)(2) above has
determined that pesticide use is warranted, a pesticide program may be
implemented, provided that:
         (a)   When choosing a pesticide, the lot owner must consider toxicity,
effectiveness and availability. The city discourages stockpiling of supplies;
         (b)   The pesticide must be applied only and exactly as directed on
the label;
         (c)   Pesticide applications must be properly timed to maximize their
overall effectiveness;
         (d)   Pouring of excess pesticide on the ground or into the lakes or
other surface waters is prohibited; and
         (e)   Pesticide treatment of aquatic organisms is limited to licensed
professionals and may not be performed by landowners.
(Prior Code, § 10-70) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 COMMERCIAL LAWN FERTILIZER APPLICATORS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   License required. No person, firm, corporation or franchise shall
engage in the business of commercial lawn fertilizer application within the
city, unless a license has been obtained from the City Clerk as provided
herein.
   (B)   License application procedure. Applications for a commercial lawn
fertilizer license shall be submitted to the City Clerk. The application shall
consist of the following:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant and any individuals
authorized to represent the applicant;
      (2)   Description of lawn fertilizer formula proposed to be applied on
lawns within the city;
      (3)   A time schedule for application of lawn fertilizer and
identification of weather conditions acceptable for lawn fertilizer
application;
      (4)   A sample of lawn fertilizer must be submitted to the city along
with the initial application for a license, and, thereafter, at least 30 days
before fertilizer composition changes are implemented. A sample submittal can
be replaced by a chemical analysis certified by an independent testing
laboratory;
      (5)   The license fee will be as designed, from time to time, by City
Council resolution. The license will expire on December 31. The license fee
will not be prorated; and
      (6)   (a)   A bond will also be submitted with the application form in an
amount to be determined at the discretion of the City Council.
         (b)   The bond will be conditioned upon compliance with the city’s
regulations.
         (c)   Actions to collect bond proceeds may not prevent the city from
filing criminal complaints for ordinance violations.
   (C)   Conditions of license. A commercial lawn fertilizer applicator license
shall be issued subject to the following conditions which shall be specified on
the license form.
      (1)   Random sampling. Commercial lawn fertilizer applicators shall
permit the city to sample any commercial lawn fertilizer to be applied at any
time after issuance of the initial license.
      (2)   Possession of license. The commercial lawn fertilizer applicator
license or a copy thereof shall be in the possession of any party employed by
the commercial lawn fertilizer applicator when making lawn fertilizer
applications within the city.
      (3)   State regulations. Licensee shall comply with the provisions of the
state’s Fertilizer, Soil Amendment and Plant Amendment Law as contained in M.S.
§§ 18C.001 through 18C.80, as they may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Compliance with city regulations. The licensee must abide by the
restrictions on the use of fertilizers and pesticides that are contained in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-71) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement. The City Council is responsible for the administration
and enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   Civil remedies. This subchapter may also be enforced by injunction,
action for abatement or other appropriate civil remedy or by citation written
and processed as an administrative proceeding in city court.
(Prior Code, § 10-72) (Ord. 7-2005, passed 5-17-2005; Ord. 10-2005, passed 6-
21-2005)
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.25 PURPOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to start or allow to burn, any open fire
on any property within the city without first having obtained a burn permit
from the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire Protection District, except for supervised
recreational or cooking fires contained within approved fire rings, pits or
barbecue grills.
(Prior Code, § 10-130) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECREATIONAL FIRES.
      (1)   A fire three feet in diameter at the base with flame height not
exceeding three feet and is fueled only by natural wood with logs three inches
in diameter or larger.
      (2)   Fires fueled by other materials, including but not limited to
treated or painted wood, plastic, rubber, leaves, grass, trimmings or any
garden or yard vegetation, regardless of size, are not RECREATIONAL FIRES.
(Prior Code, § 10-131)
§ 91.27 RECREATIONAL FIRES.
   (A)   Recreational fires:
      (1)   Must be constantly attended by a person until the fire is totally
extinguished;
      (2)   Shall not be conducted within 15 feet of a structure or combustible
material; and
      (3)   Take place on the owner’s property and shall be a minimum of five
feet from property lines.
   (B)   A means of quickly extinguishing the fire must be readily available
for immediate use. Acceptable onsite fire extinguishing means include at least
one of the following:
      (1)   Portable fire extinguisher with a minimum 4-A rating;
      (2)   A shovel with readily available dirt or sand; and
      (3)   A hooked up and operational garden hose or a water barrel.
(Prior Code, § 10-132) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28 BURNING BAN.
   When a burning ban has been issued by the Commissioner of the state’s
Department of Natural Resources or other authorized unit of government, the
city reserves the right to suspend all recreational fires for the duration of
the ban.
(Prior Code, § 10-133)
§ 91.29 EXTINGUISHING FIRES.
   A fire must be extinguished if it is smoldering or becomes a nuisance (i.e.,
annoys, causes injuries or endangers health, safety, comfort or repose of the
public) to others or if not under supervision.
(Prior Code, § 10-134)
§ 91.30 RESPONSIBILITY.
   Recreational fires on property of multi-family residences or on rental
property are the responsibility of property management or association. When
applicable, residents must adhere to property management/association rules/
regulations and these guidelines.
(Prior Code, § 10-135)
§ 91.31 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Failure to comply with this subchapter constitutes a public nuisance and, in
addition, is subject to a fine equal to the costs of Fire Department actions
needed to ensure compliance and safeguard life and property.
(Prior Code, § 10-136) (Ord. 01-2010, passed 2-16-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
COMPOSTING AND RECYCLING
§ 91.45 PURPOSE.
   The Council finds that discarded plastic single-use food service ware
constitutes a portion of the waste stream in the city, some of which becomes
litter and reaches the St. Croix River. Compostable straws, utensils and
packaging would eliminate plastic from this element of the waste stream. The
Council therefore finds that the minimization of nonreusable, non-recyclable
and noncompostable food service ware originating at retail food establishments
and at events providing food and/or beverages within the city is necessary and
desirable in order to minimize the amount of plastic in the city’s waste stream
and its effects on the St. Croix River and to maximize recycling so as to
reduce the volume of plastics reaching the St. Croix River, and to make the
city and neighboring communities more environmentally sound places to live.
(Ord. 04-2018, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 91.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPOSTABLE. Made solely of organic substances that break down into a stable
product due to the action of bacteria in a controlled, aerobic commercial
process that results in a material safe and desirable as a soil amendment
meeting the compost quality standards found under WAC 173-350-220 for metals,
physical parameters, pathogens, manufactured inert material and other testing
parameters set by the local Health Department.
   DISPOSABLE PLASTIC FOOD SERVICE WARE. Non-recyclable containers, plates,
“clamshells,” serving trays, meat and vegetable trays, hot and cold beverage
cups and utensils that are made of plastic or plastic-coated paper and intended
only for one-time use (including so-called biodegradable products where any
portion is not compostable).
   FOOD SERVICE BUSINESSES. Full-service restaurants, fast food restaurants,
cafés, delicatessens, coffee shops, grocery stores, vending trucks or carts,
business or institutional cafeterias and other businesses, selling or providing
food within the city for consumption on or off the premises.
   RECYCLABLE. Made solely of materials that are capable of being separated
from a waste stream by a food service business and made available for
collection and delivery to a processor for reuse or remanufacture into the same
or other products.
   SINGLE-USE FOOD SERVICE WARE. Includes, but is not limited to straws,
utensils, cocktail picks, customer food containers (to-go containers) cups and
plates.
(Ord. 04-2018, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 91.47 COMPOSTABLE OR RECYCLABLE SINGLE-USE FOOD SERVICE WARE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Effective October 1, 2019, food service businesses shall be required
to use compostable or recyclable food service ware when selling or providing
food for consumption on or off the premises, rather than using single-use
plastic food service ware. Bendable straws which are non-compostable or non-
recyclable may be available for persons requiring the items due to physical
limitations by request.
   (B)   All items covered under this subchapter must display a clear marking
indicating they are made from fully compostable or recyclable materials.
   (C)   The use of compostable bags is required in all commercial activities,
including vendors during any fairs, shows or other events in the city, except
as may be required by law.
(Ord. 04-2018, passed 10-1-2018)
HAULING AND DISPOSAL OF SNOW
§ 91.60 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted for the following purpose:
   (A)   To preserve and enhance the water quality of the lakes, ponds,
wetlands, creeks, and St. Croix River, prevent erosion into these water bodies,
protect fish and wildlife habitat, and preserve the economic and natural
environmental values of the surface waters and groundwater of the city.
   (B)   To conserve natural resources and maintain a high standard of
environmental quality.
(Ord. 14-2023, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 91.61 PROHIBITION OF HAULING AND DISPOSAL OF SNOW.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit the hauling and disposal of snow from
another property onto any property situated within the limits of the city.
   (B)   This prohibition does not apply to the sporadic moving of excess snow
from the boulevard of St. Croix Trail in the downtown Old Village area to the
adjacent public open space with infiltration ponds.
(Ord. 14-2023, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.10 or failure to comply with any of their requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variances
or conditional uses) shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by
a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or
both, plus the cost of prosecution in any case.
      (2)   Violations of §§
91.01 through
91.10 of this code can occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required
for a regulated activity pursuant to §§
91.01 through
91.10 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10-72)
   (C)   When a violation of §§
91.45 through
91.47 of this code has occurred, the food establishment shall be subject to the
penalties set forth below.
      (1)   A violation of §§
91.45 through
91.47 of this code is a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Violations of §§
91.45 through
91.47 of this code shall result in the following penalties:
         (a)   A warning notice in writing for the first violation;
         (b)   A fine of $100 for the second violation; and
         (c)   Repeat subsequent violations within 24 months will incur a fine
double the amount of the fine imposed for the previous violation, up to a
maximum of $2,000. For example, if there were four occurrences of a violation
that carried a $100 fine: first is $0 (warning); second is $100, third is $200,
fourth is $400.
      (3)   At the time a violation occurs, the food establishment will be
given 14 calendar days to take corrective action before a subsequent fine is
issued.
(Ord. 04-2018, passed 10-1-2018)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Enforcement
City Parks
   
92.15   General conduct
   
92.16   Defacing or destroying property prohibited
   
92.17   Parking and driving of vehicles
   
92.18   Speed of vehicles
   
92.19   Open fire prohibited
   
92.20   Swimming or wading in certain areas prohibited
   
92.21   Hours
Trapping
   
92.35   Intent
   
92.36   Permit required
   
92.37   Prohibitions
   
92.38   Exemptions
   
92.39   Impounding of body-gripping devices
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish, maintain and manage parks, see M.S. § 412.491
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BODY-GRIPPING DEVICE.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, any snare (neck, body or leg),
kill type trap (Conibear), leg hold trap (steel-jaw, padded and offset) and any
other device designed to grip a body or body part.
      (2)   Cage and box traps, suitcase-type live beaver traps and common rat
and mouse traps shall not be considered body-gripping devices.
   PARK. Any land or water area and all facilities thereon devoted to
recreational use or proclaimed to be park property, including all city access
roads adjacent thereto.
   WEAPONS. Any device from which shot or a projectile of any type can be
discharged by means of an explosive gas or compressed air, or otherwise
propelled, including, but not limited to firearms, bows, arrows, slings and
spring guns.
(Prior Code, § 16-1) (Ord. 08-2013, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 92.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   Compliance with this chapter shall be enforced by the County Sheriff’s
Department or other police authority on behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, § 16-2) (Ord. 08-2013, passed 8-20-2013)
CITY PARKS
§ 92.15 GENERAL CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following within a city
park:
   (A)   Deposit, scatter, drop or abandon any bottles, cans, glass, sewage,
waste or other debris or refuse except in receptacles provided for these
purposes;
   (B)   Shoot or discharge any weapon, fireworks or explosives, or to possess
any weapon, fireworks or explosives;
   (C)   Dig trenches or make any other excavations; and/or
   (D)   Ride a horse, except in designated areas.
(Prior Code, § 16-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 DEFACING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deface, destroy, diminish or impair the value of public or
private property located within any public park in the city, including
buildings, structures or trees, shrubs or vegetation located thereon or growing
therein.
(Prior Code, § 16-4) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 PARKING AND DRIVING OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive a motorized vehicle in a public park other than on
public roads within the park. No person shall park a motorized vehicle in a
public park in an area not specifically posted with signs permitting parking of
motorized vehicles nor in an area posted with signs prohibiting parking.
(Prior Code, § 16-5) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 SPEED OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive or operate a motorized vehicle at a speed in excess of
15 mph in any park unless legally signed for a higher speed.
(Prior Code, § 16-6) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 OPEN FIRE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall build a fire in any place in any park except in fireplaces
or receptacles provided for the building of fires or in an area specifically
posted with signs permitting the building of an open fire not in a fireplace or
receptacle.
(Prior Code, § 16-7) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 SWIMMING OR WADING IN CERTAIN AREAS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall wade or swim in an area in which signs have been
posted prohibiting swimming or wading.
   (B)   In all areas wherein swimming and wading is permitted, the City
Council shall have the authority by resolution to prohibit the use of this
equipment as it deems dangerous to persons engaged in swimming or wading, and
to prohibit these activities or conduct as it deems dangerous or hazardous to
those engaging in it or to other persons in a park.
   (C)   When a sign has been posted prohibiting the use of the equipment or
engagement in activities or conduct as may be specified therein, no person
shall use the equipment or engage in these activities or conduct.
(Prior Code, § 16-8) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 HOURS.
   All public parks shall be closed from sunset until 6:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 16-9) (Ord. 08-2013, passed 8-20-2013)
TRAPPING
§ 92.35 INTENT.
   It is the intent of the city to protect public health and safety and animal
welfare by prohibiting the use of body-gripping devices on all public lands on
all public rights-of-way and in the Village Historic (VHS) District. The
ordinance is necessary to preserve wild animals and prevent the un-selective
catching, maiming of wild animals including birds, endangered and threatened
species and companion animals, as well as injury to children and adults that
come into contact with these devices.
(Prior Code, § 16-10) (Ord. 05-2021, passed 7-20-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.36 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No trapping that may otherwise be permitted by law within the
boundaries of the city may occur without the issuance of a trapping permit from
the city.
   (B)   A permit will be granted for trapping only if the applicant submits an
application form provided by the city which describes the approximate location
of any traps to be placed within the city, as well as the type and make of trap
and the type of animal which is intended to be trapped. Any information so
obtained shall be public data.
(Prior Code, § 16-11) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.37 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set or use, or attempt to set
or use, a body-gripping device of any kind designed or intended to take hold
of, capture or kill any animal within any city parks, public lands held in
conservation easements, in any public rights-of-way or in the VHS District.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, possessor or any other person in
control of a lot, tract or parcel of land within city limits or any residence
or business premises situated thereon to knowingly permit the use of a body-
gripping device upon the property, residence or premises by anyone other than
the owner without that person or persons first obtaining a trapping permit from
the city.
   (C)   Trapping of any kind shall be prohibited in all city parks unless
under the direct authorization of the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 16-12) (Ord. 05-2021, passed 7-20-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.38 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this act shall not prohibit federal, state, county
or municipal government employees or their duly authorized agents from using a
Conibear trap in water, padded-jaw leghold trap or non-strangling type foot
snare where use of the device is the only method available to protect human
health and safety.
   (B)   The provisions of this act shall not prohibit federal or state
employees or their duly authorized agents from using a Conibear trap in water,
padded-jaw leghold trap or non-strangling type foot snare where use of the
device is the only means of protecting threatened and endangered species, as
listed under the federal and state’s endangered species law, being M.S. §
84.08895.
(Prior Code, § 16-13)
§ 92.39 IMPOUNDING OF BODY-GRIPPING DEVICES.
   Whenever a body-gripping device is used contrary to the prohibitions
outlined in this chapter within the confines of any city park, lands held in
conservation easements within the city limits or in any public rights-of-way;
or traps of any kind are used within any city parkland, the same may be
impounded by any duly authorized police officer or by any Fish and Game Warden
until judicial action occurs.
(Prior Code, § 16-14) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall be administered according to §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 16-15)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Restraint
   
93.03   Confinement
   
93.04   Public nuisance; determination and abatement
   
93.05   Animal shelter and animal control
   
93.06   Abandonment
   
93.07   Kennels
City Registration
   
93.20   Requirements
   
93.21   Application and tags
   
93.22   Term of validity
   
93.23   Lost or stolen tags
   
93.24   Transfers and refunds
   
93.25   Fee
Impoundment
   
93.40   Authorization
   
93.41   Treatment during impoundment
   
93.42   Redemption
   
93.43   Disposal of unredeemed animals
   
93.44   Observation of dog after biting
   
93.45   Animal control and animal shelter reports
Wild Animals
   
93.60   Purpose
   
93.61   Definition
   
93.62   Exceptions; permit required
   
93.63   Impoundment of wild animals
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Animals generally, see M.S. Ch. 346
   Authority of council to regulate animals, see M.S. § 412.221, subdivision 21
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERED. An animal which has been surgically rendered unable to reproduce:
Neutered in the case of male animals or spayed in the case of female animals.
   ANIMAL, DOMESTIC PETS. Any animal commonly accepted as a domesticated
household pet. Unless otherwise defined, these animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, fish and other similar
animals.
   ANIMAL, WILD. Any animal commonly considered to be naturally wild and not
naturally trained or domesticated, or which is commonly considered to be
inherently dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of people.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. An officer employed by or under contract who is
responsible for animal control operations, enforcement of this chapter and
other laws dealing with animals. The ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER shall also be
construed to include any licensed law enforcement officer.
   AT LARGE. A dog when it is off the property of his or her owner or keeper
and not under restraint.
   CAT. Both male and female of any animal of the domesticated cat species.
   CLERK. The City Clerk and the duties imposed upon the Clerk hereunder with
respect to registration receipts and tags may be carried out by the Clerk
through the Clerk’s duly designated agents subject to the Clerk’s supervision,
direction and control.
   COMMERCIAL KENNEL. A place where four or more dogs over six months of age
are kept, and where the business of selling, boarding, breeding, training or
grooming dogs is conducted, governed by a special use permit.
   DOG. Both male and female of any animal of the domesticated dog species.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, harboring or acting as custodian of any
animal.
   RESCUE GROUP. An organization certified as a nonprofit 501(C)(3)
organization and has as at least one of its purposes the rescue and placement
of cats.
   RESIDENTIAL KENNEL. A place where four or more dogs over six months of age
are kept on premises which are zoned and occupied for residential purposes, and
where the keeping of the dogs is incidental to the occupancy of the premises
for residential purposes, by a special use permit and licensed as required
herein.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is on the premises of the animals owner; obedient to
that person’s command when off the premises; within a private motor vehicle or
controlled by a leash. An animal on the property of another without the consent
of the property owner is at large and not under RESTRAINT.
   STRAY CAT COLONY. Cats living in a stray cat managed program.
   STRAY CAT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. A program designed to trap, sterilize (spay or
neuter) and return unsocialized stray cats to their colony in order to reduce
and ultimately eliminate stray cat populations in a nonlethal and effective
manner.
   UNSOCIALIZED STRAY CAT. A stray cat which is wild, untamed or unsocialized.
(Prior Code, § 6-1) (Ord. 1997-2, passed 12-16-1997)
§ 93.02 RESTRAINT.
   No owner shall permit his or her animal to be at large in this city, but
shall keep the animal under restraint at all times. Animals shall be prohibited
in areas of public parks or upon public lands unless leashed at all times.
(Prior Code, § 6-2) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Animals at large, see M.S. §§ 346.16 et seq.
§ 93.03 CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   The owner shall confine within a building or secure enclosure any
fierce, dangerous or vicious animal, except when under restraint by a competent
person.
   (B)   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building, secure
enclosure, veterinary hospital or boarding kennel, or shall be controlled on a
leash while being exercised.
(Prior Code, § 6-3) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 PUBLIC NUISANCE; DETERMINATION AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Any animal is a public nuisance that has done any of the following:
      (1)   Destroyed property or habitually trespassed in a damaging manner on
property of persons other than the owner;
      (2)   Attacked or bitten a person outside the owner’s or custodian’s
premises;
      (3)   Shown vicious habits or molested pedestrians or persons riding or
driving on the public streets or highways;
      (4)   Habitually ran at large;
      (5)   Habitually barked, howled or bayed to the annoyance of others; and
      (6)   Has not been registered with the Clerk in order to be identified
and returned to its owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-4)
   (B)   After a finding by a court of proper jurisdiction that an animal is a
public nuisance, as defined in division (A) above, the court may order that the
animal be destroyed or that the owner or custodian remove it from the city or
keep it confined to a designated place.
(Prior Code, § 6-5)
Statutory reference:
   Dogs as nuisances, see M.S. § 347.04
§ 93.05 ANIMAL SHELTER AND ANIMAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The City Council may provide for an animal shelter, either within or
outside the limits of the city, and may provide for animal control officers and
animal shelter workers.
   (B)   The animal control officer shall have the police powers necessary for
enforcement of this chapter, including the authority to issue citations for
violations.
(Prior Code, § 6-6) (Ord. 1997-2, passed 12-16-1997) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 ABANDONMENT.
   No person shall abandon any living animal or animal carcass within the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-7) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Animal abuse, see M.S. §§ 346.35 et seq.
§ 93.07 KENNELS.
   (A)   Fees. The fee for a commercial kennel license shall be the amount set
by the City Council from time to time. The fee for a residential kennel license
shall be the amount set by the City Council from time to time. The kennel
license shall be in lieu of individual license fees as set forth in §
93.25 of this code. A certificate of vaccination against rabies shall be
available for inspection by any person charged with enforcement of this
section, for each dog over six months of age housed in the kennel.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
   (B)   Tags. Upon the issuance of a conditional use permit license by the
City Council, the licensee shall be provided with metallic tags as described in
§
93.22 of this code for each dog housed in the kennel. The provisions of §§
93.22,
93.23 and
153.107 of this code shall apply to kennel dogs.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
   (C)   Regulations. Kennels shall be kept in a clean and healthful condition
at all times, and shall be open to inspection by any health officer, animal
control officer or other person charged with enforcement of this chapter, or
any health or sanitary regulation of this city, at all reasonable times.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Kennel licenses, see M.S. § 347.32
CITY REGISTRATION
§ 93.20 REQUIREMENTS.
   No person in the city shall own, harbor, keep or have custody of a dog or
cat over six months of age within this city unless the dog or cat has been
vaccinated for rabies and registered with the Clerk. All dogs shall be provided
a license and the license period shall be for two years beginning January 1 of
every other year. All other domestic pets can be registered with the Clerk for
easy identification if the animal is at large within the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-36) (Res. 1996-9, passed 3-19-1996) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 APPLICATION AND TAGS.
   (A)   Application for city registration shall be made to the Clerk 45 days
after taking residence within this city. In the case of the dog license it
shall not be later than 30 days after commencement of the license period. The
application shall include the descriptive information as is necessary to
provide reasonable identification of the animal and its owner. All applicants
for registration of dogs and cats shall present to the Clerk a certificate
issued by a doctor of veterinary medicine showing that the animal in question
has been vaccinated against rabies. All applicants for registration for an
altered animal shall present to the Clerk a certificate issued by a doctor of
veterinary medicine showing that the animal has been altered.
   (B)   Upon the registration of a dog, the Clerk shall issue a dog license.
The licensee shall be provided with a license receipt and a metallic tag
bearing the license number, the name of the city and the year when the license
period begins or has begun. Except where the dog for which the license is
issued is on the premises of his or her owner, the animal shall have a collar
or harness on which the license tag is affixed. No person shall counterfeit any
tag of this city or use a counterfeit tag.
(Prior Code, § 6-37) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Wearing invalid tag unlawful, see M.S. § 347.18
§ 93.22 TERM OF VALIDITY.
   City registration shall be valid for the period the certificate of rabies
vaccination certifies, and shall expire on the date the rabies vaccination
certificate expires. Dog licenses are valid for two calendar years.
(Prior Code, § 6-38)
§ 93.23 LOST OR STOLEN TAGS.
   If any tag provided for by this chapter is lost or stolen, the owner may
obtain a new tag by surrendering the receipt for the first tag and by paying
the sum set by the City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6-39)
§ 93.24 TRANSFERS AND REFUNDS.
   Animal registration and dog tags shall not be transferable and no refunds
shall be made on any fee because of leaving the city or death of the animal
before the expiration of the registration period.
(Prior Code, § 6-40) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Failure to obtain license, see M.S. § 347.19
   Unlicensed dogs unlawful, see M.S. § 347.14
§ 93.25 FEE.
   The license fee for each domestic pet registration shall be in the amount
set by the City Council from time to time. If the registration is obtained
while the animal is impounded by this city or after the required license period
has commenced, there shall be added to the regular registration fee a late fee
penalty of an additional sum as set by the City Council from time to time for
each animal. Any domestic pet that is impounded by this city must be registered
by the Clerk prior to redeeming the domestic pet from the animal shelter.
(Prior Code, § 6-41)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 93.40 AUTHORIZATION.
   The animal control officer or police officer of the city shall impound any
animal determined to be a public nuisance. To enforce these provisions, the
animal control officer or police officer may enter upon private premises, in
accordance with §
10.20 of this code, where he, she or they have reasonable cause to believe
there is a violation. Any domestic pet owner shall produce for inspection the
registration receipt upon request of the officers. When domestic pets or other
animals are found running at large and their ownership is known to the animal
control officer or police officer, the domestic pet need not be impounded, but
the officer may, at his or her discretion, cite the owners of the domestic pet
to pay a animal control call out fee as set by the Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6-66)
§ 93.41 TREATMENT DURING IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any domestic pet which is impounded in the animal shelter shall be kept with
kind treatment and comfort. If the animal is not known or suspected of being
diseased and has not bitten a person, it shall be kept in the animal shelter
for at least five regular business days, unless it is sooner reclaimed by its
owner. If the animal is known to be or is suspected of being diseased with a
disease which might be transmitted to persons, it shall be kept in the animal
shelter for at least 14 days.
(Prior Code, § 6-67)
§ 93.42 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Any domestic pet impounded under this chapter may be redeemed from the
animal shelter by the owner upon paying the following fees and charges:
      (1)   The registration fee for the domestic pet, if the registration has
not previously been obtained. This fee is to be paid to the Clerk at City Hall
or to the animal shelter if the City Hall is closed;
      (2)   The late registration fine, in the amount set by the City Council
from time to time, where the registration has not been obtained within the
required time. This fee is to be paid to the Clerk at City Hall or to the
animal shelter if the City Hall is closed;
      (3)   The boarding fee in the amount set by the City Council and animal
shelter from time to time. This fee is to be paid to the animal shelter for its
services;
      (4)   An impounding fine in the amount established by the City Council
from time to time. This fee is to be paid at the animal shelter by a separate
check to the city; and
      (5)   An additional fee in the amount set by the City Council for second,
third or fourth violations of this chapter.
   (B)   This fee is to be paid at the animal shelter by a separate check to
the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-68) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impound animals, see M.S. § 412.221, subdivision 21
§ 93.43 DISPOSAL OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   The animal shelter shall notify the owner of any domestic pet which
has been impounded and which has identification on it. At the end of the
impounding period if the animal is not reclaimed by the owner, the animal shall
be deemed to have been abandoned and may be sold to any person or disposed of
by the animal shelter in a humane manner.
   (B)   No abandonment or disposal of any animal shall exempt the owner of the
animal from the penalties and redemption fees provided under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-69) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.44 OBSERVATION OF DOG AFTER BITING.
   Any person knowing of a case of a human being bitten by a dog shall
immediately notify the animal control officer or police, who shall then order
the dog impounded for a period of 14 days, at the expense of the dog owner,
before surrendering the dog to its owner. If the owner has adequate facilities,
the animal control officer or police may allow the owner of the dog to impound
it in these facilities.
(Prior Code, § 6-70)
Statutory reference:
   Rabies control program, see M.S. §§ 346.50 et seq.
§ 93.45 ANIMAL CONTROL AND ANIMAL SHELTER REPORTS.
   The animal control officer and the animal shelter shall give an accurate
written report for each month to the City Clerk showing all services provided
and fees collected for all animals impounded or otherwise disposed of under the
terms of this chapter and the duration of impoundment.
(Prior Code, § 6-71)
WILD ANIMALS
§ 93.60 PURPOSE.
   To protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city, it
shall be unlawful to keep any wild animal within the corporate limits of the
city, except as permitted pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-131) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Game and fish, see M.S. Ch. 97A
§ 93.61 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any mammal, amphibian or reptile which is of a species which is
wild by nature or of a species which, due to size, vicious nature or other
characteristic is dangerous to human beings. Examples include but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Any large cat of the family Felidae, such as lions, tigers,
jaguars, leopards, cougars and ocelots, except commonly accepted domesticated
house cats;
      (2)   Any member of the family Canidae, such as wolves, coyotes, dingos
and jackals, except domesticated dogs;
      (3)   Any crossbreed such as crossbreeds between dogs and coyotes, or
dogs and wolves, but does not include crossbred domesticated animals;
      (4)   Any poisonous snake such as a rattlesnake, coral snake, water
moccasin, puff adder or cobra;
      (5)   Any snake or reptile which by its size, vicious nature or other
characteristic is dangerous to human beings;
      (6)   Any skunk, raccoon, fox or ferret, unless certified by a
veterinarian to be free of rabies, and kept pursuant to a valid DNR permit, the
certification to be obtained within seven days of receipt of the animal;
      (7)   Any bear, ape, gorilla, monkey (except as exempted by this
subchapter) or badger; or
      (8)   Any other animal or reptile which is commonly considered wild and
not domesticated.
(Prior Code, § 6-132)
Statutory reference:
   Wild animal defined, see M.S. § 97A.015(55)
§ 93.62 EXCEPTIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring to keep an animal prohibited by this subchapter
may apply for a temporary conditional use permit from the City Council. The
permit may be issued for a period not to exceed 30 days and shall specify
conditions under which the animals shall be kept. Provided, however, that no
permit shall be issued unless the prohibited animal is brought into the city
for entertainment, exhibition or show purposes only, or by persons keeping
animals for a public zoo as volunteers, docents or otherwise. A public zoo or
other institution engaged in a permanent display of animals, any bona fide
research institution or veterinary hospital may be issued a permanent special
use permit provided applicable zoning requirements are met.
   (B)   Nonpoisonous snakes or snakes not prohibited by this subchapter, birds
kept indoors, hamsters, mice, rabbits, gerbils, white rats, guinea pigs,
chinchillas or lizards and similar small animals capable of being kept in cages
continuously are also exempt and do not require a permit.
   (C)   Handicapped persons may keep monkeys trained as personal helpers by
special use permit subject to annual review.
   (D)   The raising of wild animals for pelts may be permitted by special use
permit provided all applicable zoning requirements and all applicable state
requirements are met.
   (E)   Before issuance of any temporary or permanent conditional or special
use permit, the applicant shall provide the city with proof of insurance,
including public liability insurance with limits of not less than $100,000. The
insurance shall provide coverage for liability resulting from the ownership or
possession of the specific animal or animals being permitted.
(Prior Code, § 6-133) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.63 IMPOUNDMENT OF WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any wild animal kept in violation of this subchapter may be impounded
by the city. Unless the impounded animal is reclaimed and removed from the
city, or issued a permit to allow it to remain in the city, or unless the owner
petitions the district court for a determination that the animal is exempt from
the provisions of this subchapter, the animal may be destroyed or sold five
days following notice to the owner of the animal of its impoundment and the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person reclaiming any animal shall pay the costs of impounding and
boarding the same at the time of its release.
(Prior Code, § 6-134) (Ord. 01-2011, passed 2-15-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-8) (Ord. 1997-2, passed 12-16-1997)
CHAPTER 94: CEMETERIES
Section
   
94.01   Establishment
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Sale of lots
   
94.04   Conditions of lot purchase
   
94.05   Handling of funds
   
94.06   Burial permits
   
94.07   Interments
   
94.08   Burial vaults
   
94.09   Funeral supervision
   
94.10   Disinterment and removal
   
94.11   Transfer of lots
   
94.12   City repurchase of unused cemetery lot
   
94.13   Conduct of persons in the cemetery
   
94.14   Monuments and markers
   
94.15   Foundations
   
94.16   Installation of monuments and markers
   
94.17   Mausoleums
   
94.18   Columbarium niches
   
94.19   Decoration of lots
   
94.20   Hours
   
94.21   Third party maintenance
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A cemetery has been established and is continued upon land owned by the city
and described as “Mount Hope Cemetery, City of Afton.” The plat of the cemetery
filed with the County Recorder is adopted as the official plat of the cemetery.
In addition, a cemetery established in 1886 in the city known and platted as
St. Paulus German Lutheran Cemetery was established and is currently being
maintained by the city. No person shall lay out or establish any cemetery, or
use an lot of land within the city for the burial of dead except in Mount Hope,
St. Paulus German Lutheran Cemeteries or some other tract of land duly
designated and platted within the city as a cemetery.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Afton, Minnesota, owning and/or maintaining the cemetery.
   CEMETERY. A tract of land used for burials or above-ground interment.
   BURIAL PERMIT. Legal written permission for burial to occur.
   BURIAL VAULT. A container that houses a casket for final interment in the
cemetery.
   COLUMBARIUM. Above-ground, hexagonal repository composed of niches to hold
cremation urns.
   INTERMENT. Disposition of human remains or cremains by burial or entombment.
   MARKER. A memorial of granite or other approved material that does not
extend above the surface
of the lawn.
   MAUSOLEUMS. An external free-standing building enclosing the interment space
or burial chamber of a deceased person or persons.
   MEMORIAL. A monument, marker bench or large urns (marked or unmarked).
   MONUMENT. A memorial of granite or other approved material that extends
above the surface of
the lawn.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.03 SALE OF LOTS.
   (A)   The principal purpose of the city’s ownership and maintenance of the
cemeteries is that of historical preservation and the city will not approve any
future burials in either cemetery beyond those that were already approved prior
to the date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. The city expressly
reserves the right to deny any and all applications for the sale of any lot
within either cemetery in its complete and sole discretion.
   (B)   The prices of cemetery lots and services will be set by resolution of
the City Council. Any person paying for a lot is entitled to a license
agreement conveying the lot. A license agreement conveying a lot gives the
purchaser only the right of burial therein and shall be considered as a license
that restricts the use to burial purposes.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016; Ord. 07-2016, passed 6-21-2016)
§ 94.04 CONDITIONS OF LOT PURCHASE.
   All lot agreements are subject to reasonable rules and regulations as the
Council may adopt relative to the use of the cemetery. No lot shall be used for
any purpose other than the burial of human remains and the placing of memorials
as permitted by this chapter or any additional regulation that the Council may
provide.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.05 HANDLING OF FUNDS.
   All money received from the sale of lots and other services must be paid to
the city. No lot agreement to any cemetery lot shall be issued, nor any
cemetery service performed until a receipt showing payment to the city of the
cost thereof is exhibited to the person who issues the deed or performs the
services. All money received from the sale of lots and performance of services
shall be placed in the Cemetery Fund. The Fund may be used only for payment of
the purchase price of grounds, or maintenance and improvements to the cemetery.
The Treasurer shall keep an account of all receipts and disbursements of money
belonging to the Cemetery Fund and shall pay money out of the Fund as approved
by the City Council.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.06 BURIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Before any interment, a burial permit shall be obtained from the
funeral home or State Registrar of Vital Statistics. No interment shall be made
unless the city is notified and a copy of the burial permit is filed with the
city.
   (B)   Within 36 hours after the death of any person in the city and before
the body is removed for burial within the city, the mortician, funeral director
or person having charge of the interment shall apply for the permit. This
application shall be accompanied by a death certificate as prescribed by the
state’s Department of Health. No burial permit shall be issued until the
application and death certificate is completed and presented. The body of a
deceased person shall not be brought into the city for burial unless
accompanied by a death certificate and permit for removal issued by the
Registrar of the Registration District wherein the death occurred.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.07 INTERMENTS.
   Permission in writing from a lot owner must accompany all requests for
permission to bury bodies of persons that are not members of the immediate
family of the lot owner. All excavations shall be made under the direction of
the city. When graves are requested to be dug, at least 24 hours’ notice shall
be given, and the outside dimensions of the case to be used and the location
shall be specified. No interment may be made in the cemetery unless the city
expressly agrees, through action by its City Council, to the internment, and
all laws, ordinances, rules and regulations regarding interments have been
complied with and until purchase price of the lot and all burial fees are paid.
The city is under no obligation to agree to any internment and may, in its full
and complete discretion, refuse any request.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.08 BURIAL VAULTS.
   All caskets must be encased in a permanent type burial case or vault.
Fiberglass vaults are prohibited.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 FUNERAL SUPERVISION.
   All funerals, on reaching the cemetery, shall be under the supervision of
the city or its designated agents or personnel.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.10 DISINTERMENT AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Before any grave may be opened, written permission of the lot owner
and the next of kin shall be filed with the cemetery superintendent, a permit
from the County Health Officer shall be secured and presented and the required
fees paid. This provision does not apply when disinterment is ordered by a duly
authorized public authority.
   (B)   Removal of a body by the heirs so that the lot may be sold for profit
to themselves, or removal contrary to the expressed or implied wish of the
original lot owner is forbidden.
   (C)   A body may be removed from its original lot to a larger or better lot
in the cemetery when there has been an exchange or purchase for that purpose.
   (D)   The city shall assume no liability for damage to any casket or burial
case in making the disinterment and removal.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 TRANSFER OF LOTS.
   No cemetery lot or fractional lot may be resold or otherwise disposed of,
except by will, without the approval of the City Council, in accordance with
the procedures outlined in M.S. § 306.15, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.12 CITY REPURCHASE OF UNUSED CEMETERY LOT.
   A lot owner may sell his or her unused lot back to the city. The city will
purchase the lot at any mutually agreeable price, but is under no obligation to
repurchase any lot and may do so at its complete discretion.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.13 CONDUCT OF PERSONS IN THE CEMETERY.
   (A)   No person may discharge any firearm within the cemetery grounds
without written permission of the city.
   (B)   No person may remove any object from any place in the cemetery or make
any excavation without the written permission of the city.
   (C)   No person may obstruct any drive or path in the cemetery or in any way
injure, deface or destroy any structure, grave, flower, tree or other thing in
the cemetery.
   (D)   No person may drive any vehicle at a speed exceeding ten mph. All
automobiles must be kept off the grass.
   (E)   No person may disturb the quiet of the cemetery by noise or improper
conduct of any kind.
   (F)   No person may enter or leave the cemetery except at the entrances
provided.
   (G)   No person may use the cemetery grounds or any road therein as a public
thoroughfare, nor drive any vehicle through the cemetery grounds except for
purposes relating to the cemetery.
   (H)   Children shall not be permitted to engage in playing within cemetery
grounds, and children under ten years of age shall not be admitted to the
grounds unless accompanied by an adult, who shall be responsible for their
conduct while therein.
   (I)   Animals must be on a leash and under control at all times.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   All monuments and markers shall be placed in the space shown on the cemetery
plat or as directed by the city. Monuments and markers must be constructed of
granite, marble or bronze material. The design and size of the monuments or
markers are subject to the approval of the city, which may, in its sole
discretion approve or disapprove any size or design.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.15 FOUNDATIONS.
   All monuments and markers shall be placed on foundations of solid masonry at
a depth and size to be determined by the city. The city reserves the right to
excavate and build all foundations.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.16 INSTALLATION OF MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Upon placement of an order for a monument, the lot owner or monument
salesperson shall furnish the dimensions of the proposed monument to the city,
which in turn may authorize the construction of the foundation, and all charges
must be paid before the monument is placed thereon.
   (B)   Persons engaged in erecting monuments and other structures shall
provide adequate planking to protect turf and shall remove all materials,
equipment and refuse immediately upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Scattering of materials on adjoining lots, or leaving materials on the
ground longer than absolutely necessary is prohibited. In all cases the work is
subject to the control of the cemetery superintendent and work must be
conducted within the regulations of the cemetery. Ropes and cables may be
attached to trees or other objects only on approval of the superintendent.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 MAUSOLEUMS.
   Mausoleums may be placed only on cemetery lots designated by the City
Council for the structures.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.18 COLUMBARIUM NICHES.
   Each niche may contain two cremation urns of appropriate size. The cost of a
niche will include burial opening and closing costs. Two four-inch by ten-inch
bronze plaques will be included per niche. Each plaque must be engraved
according to cemetery specifications. No other additional ornamentation will be
allowed on or in front of the columbarium.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.19 DECORATION OF LOTS.
   (A)   Plants, shrubs and flowers may be placed on cemetery lots in areas
designated by the cemetery superintendent. No trees or vines may be planted,
nor may fences be erected. The city reserves the right to remove any tree
shrub, vine, plant or flower that may become unsightly, dangerous or not in
keeping with the landscape design of the cemetery. The city shall not be
responsible for damaged, lost or misplaced flower containers.
   (B)   The placing of boxes, shells, toys, metal designs, ornaments, chairs,
settees, glass, wood or iron cases and similar articles upon lots shall not be
permitted; if the items are placed, the city may remove them.
   (C)   All objects not described above, including balloons, banners, food and
beverages, knick knacks, shepherd hooks, solar lights and lanterns, stuffed
animals, wind chimes, windmills, windsocks and statuary not incorporated into a
monument, are prohibited and may be subject to immediate removal.
   (D)   The city reserves the right to remove all monuments, markers, flowers,
plants, trees, decorations or other similar things without liability to the
owner whenever any of these objects become unsafe.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20 HOURS.
   The cemetery will be open to visitors all days from dawn to dusk. Permission
to enter at other times may be secured with express permission in writing from
the city.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.21 THIRD PARTY MAINTENANCE.
   The city may, by resolution, designate the city’s Historical Society or, in
its discretion, any other organization or third party, to manage and otherwise
serve as the city agent acting on its behalf in maintaining and management any
cemetery under the city’s ownership or control.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to fines of up to $1,000 and up to 90 days in jail.
(Ord. 06-2016, passed 5-17-2016)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND HAWKERS
      
112.   LAWFUL GAMBLING
      
113.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
110.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
110.03   Definitions
   
110.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
110.05   Consumption in public places
   
110.06   Hours and days of sale
   
110.07   Minors on premises
   
110.08   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
Licensing
   
110.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
110.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
110.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
110.23   License fees; pro rata
   
110.24   City Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
110.25   Application for license
   
110.26   Description of premises
   
110.27   Applications for renewal
   
110.28   Transfer of license
   
110.29   Investigation
   
110.30   Hearing and issuance
   
110.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
110.32   Conditions of license
   
110.33   Suspension and revocation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor, are hereby adopted by reference
and are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention
of the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this chapter is adopted.
(Prior Code, § 4-31)
§ 110.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The City Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it
may be amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 4-32)
§ 110.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2% malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined in this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “Category 1 establishment,” “Category 2
establishment” or “Category 3 establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16,
subdivision 3d, as it may be amended from time to time. An establishment which
serves prepackaged food that receives heat treatment and is served in the
package or frozen pizza that is heated and served, shall not be considered to
be a RESTAURANT for purposes of this chapter unless it meets the definitions of
“small establishment,” “medium establishment” or “large establishment.”
(Prior Code, § 4-33)
§ 110.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the
public health, safety and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity
is prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the public
in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and combination of
alcohol, nudity and sex.
      (2)   The City Council especially intends to prevent any subliminal
endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to lead to the
possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution, sexual assault
and disorderly conduct. The City Council also finds that the prohibition of
nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this chapter, as set
forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals covered with a nontransparent material. It
is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person does
not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals covered with a non-
transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty.
(Prior Code, § 4-34) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in a public
park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley or in any public
place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city or where
the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted without obtaining a
temporary license from the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-35) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Prior Code, § 4-49) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years may be able to sell or serve
intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
(Prior Code, § 4-50) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the City Council,
and no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
(Prior Code, § 4-51) Penalty, see §
110.99
LICENSING
§ 110.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
The maximum number of on-sale liquor licenses that may be issued is five for
statutory cities of 2,500 to 5,000 population, under the provisions of M.S. §
340A.413, subdivision 1, as it may be amended from time to time. On-sale liquor
licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized by M.S. Ch.
340A, as it may be amended from time to time. The City Council is not required
to issue the full number of licenses that it has available.
(Prior Code, § 4-36) (Ord. 02-2016, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 110.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 4-37)
§ 110.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The City Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
110.20 of this code:
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to
restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers and establishments used exclusively
for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of tobacco and soft
drinks;
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor off-sale license;
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious or nonprofit organization;
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off-sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the City Council under §
110.23 of this code shall not exceed $100 or a greater amount which may be
permitted by M.S. § 340A.408, subdivision 3, as it may be amended from time to
time;
   (E)   (1)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels; restaurants; bowling centers;
clubs; congressionally chartered veterans organizations and exclusive liquor
stores.
      (2)   Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
City Council under §
110.23 of this code shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. §
340A.408, subdivision 2(b), as it may be amended from time to time. The City
Council may, in its sound discretion, authorize a retail on-sale licensee to
dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at a community festival
held within the city under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subdivision 4(b),
as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   The City Council may, in its sound discretion, authorize a retail
on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at
any convention, banquet, conference, meeting or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subdivision 4a, as it may be amended from
time to time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating
liquor to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event
being held on the premises.
      (1)   No on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall be issued to an
establishment unless at least 50% of the gross food and beverage receipts of
the establishment are annually attributable to the sale of food.
      (2)   This requirement shall be regulated as follows.
         (a)   Each on-sale intoxicating licensee shall have the continuing
obligation to have at least 50% of gross food and beverage receipts from the
establishment during the preceding business year attributable to the sale of
food.
         (b)   In the case of a new establishment, the applicant must make a
bonafide estimation that at least 50% of the gross receipts from the sale of
food and beverages of the establishment during its first year of business will
be attributable to the sale of food.
         (c)   Financial records for the food and beverage portion must be
maintained separately from the records of the remainder of the establishment.
         (d)   For the purpose of this section, SALE OF FOOD shall include
gross receipts attributable to the sale of food items, soft-drinks and
nonalcoholic beverages. It shall not include any portion of gross receipts
attributable to the nonalcoholic components of plain or mixed alcoholic
beverages, such as ice, soft-drink mixes or other mixes.
         (e)   The city may require the production of these documents or
information, including but not limited to books, records, audited financial
statements or pro forma financial statements, sales reports and analysis as it
deems necessary or convenient to enforce these provisions. The city may also
obtain its own audit or review of these documents or information, and all
licensees shall cooperate with a review, including prompt production of
requested records.
         (f)   Establishments found to fall below the 50% standard of annual
food sales from the preceding business year shall be required to meet with the
City Clerk, prior to license renewal, and reassess business operations and
prepare and implement a plan of operations reasonably directed to achieve the
50% food sales requirement in the subsequent year. The plan will be subject to
the approval of the City Administrator. Public safety compliance confirmation
will be reviewed by the City Clerk and the Director of Public Safety.
         (g)   Establishments found to have less than 40% of annual gross food
receipts may be placed on probation status. The probationary status review will
be conducted by the City Council and the Council may require the establishment
be placed on probationary status for one year and require the licensee to
prepare any plans and reports, participate in any required meetings and take
other action that the city may require to increase the sale of food. The
licensee shall submit the plans and periodic reports to the City Clerk.
         (h)   If, after the initial probationary period, food sales are still
less than 40% and the establishment is not in compliance with applicable
statute, regulation or ordinance relating to alcoholic beverage, the City
Council may:
            1.   Extend the probation period up to 12 additional months;
            2.   Limit alcohol service hours by revoking an establishment’s 2:
00 a.m. liquor license (if applicable);
            3.   Reduce the hours of service by one hour for the period of one
year; or
            4.   Deem the establishment ineligible to sell intoxicating
beverages.
         (i)   Denial of an intoxicating liquor license shall not prohibit the
license holder from applying to obtain a license to sell 3.2% malt beverages.
         (j)   Food must be available to guests up until two hours before
discontinuing alcohol service.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, subdivision 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-
sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant, as
defined in §
110.03 of this code, club, bowling center or hotel which has a seating capacity
of at least 30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and
which serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum
fee for this license which shall be established by the City Council under the
provisions of §
110.23 of this code, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by
M.S. § 340A.504, subdivision 3(b), as it may be amended from time to time;
   (G)   Combination on-sale and off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the
city has a population less than 10,000;
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year;
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety, to restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25 guests at
one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, subdivision 5, as it may be
amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
110.03 of this code and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the
criteria in M.S. § 340A.401, subdivision 1, as it may be amended from time to
time. The fee for an on-sale wine license established by the City Council under
the provisions of §
110.23 of this code shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an
on-sale intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who
also holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt
liquor with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license;
   (J)   One-day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization; and
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the City Council on a person who has been issued a
consumption and display permit under the provisions of §
110.23 of this code shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by
M.S. § 340A.414, subdivision 6, as it may be amended from time to time.
Consumption and display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 4-38) (Ord. 02-2016, passed 2-16-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council may establish from time to time by ordinance or
resolution the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is authorized to issue.
      (2)   The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the license and
other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws and this
chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing mailed
notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees at least
30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, subdivision 5, as it may be amended from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 4-39)
§ 110.24 CITY COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The City Council, in its sound discretion, may either grant or deny the
application for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No
applicant has a right to a license under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-40)
§ 110.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form.
      (1)   Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall be
on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of the
applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the City Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the City Council may require
from time to time.
      (2)   An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall be
in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
(Prior Code, § 4-41)
§ 110.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking or public areas.
(Prior Code, § 4-42)
§ 110.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   (A)   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the City
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
   (B)   The City Council shall not renew a license unless the holder of the
license has made sales under the license for 90 consecutive business days
(exclusive of business days the establishment is regularly closed) during the
one-year period immediately prior to the date of renewal. The City Council
shall consider these licenses to be inactive.
(Prior Code, § 4-43)
§ 110.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the City Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to
be a transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior City
Council approval is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to
transfer a license shall be treated the same as an application for a new
license, and all of the provisions of this code applying to applications for a
license shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 4-44) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the City Council that it is in the public interest to
do so, on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation.
      (1)   If the results of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound
discretion of the City Council, a comprehensive background and financial
investigation, the City Council may either conduct the investigation itself or
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
investigation fee for this comprehensive background and financial investigation
to be paid by the applicant shall be $500, less any amount paid for the initial
investigation if the investigation is to be conducted within the state, and
$10,000, less any amount paid for the initial investigation, if the
investigation is required outside the state.
      (2)   The unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant
whether or not the application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of
any investigation and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall
not be refundable in the event the application is denied. The results of the
comprehensive investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety
if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale
wine license.
(Prior Code, § 4-45)
§ 110.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The City Council shall investigate all facts set out in the
application and not investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background
and financial investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be
heard for or against the granting of the license. After the investigation and
hearing, the City Council shall, in its sound discretion, grant or deny the
application.
   (B)   No license shall become effective until the proof of financial
security has been approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 4-46)
§ 110.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license may be directly or indirectly issued within
the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license may be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a corporation, all of the shareholders shall be
residents of the state. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to
any existing license existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the
renewal of an existing license.
   (F)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
(Prior Code, § 4-47) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an on-sale license shall receive training
regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training shall be
provided by an organization approved by the City Council. Proof of training
shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee or any other person designated by the City Council to conduct
compliance checks and to otherwise enter, inspect and search the premises of
the licensee during business hours and after business hours during the time
when customers remain on the premises without a warrant, in accordance with §
10.20 of this code.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
(Prior Code, § 4-48) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.33 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60
days or revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to
comply with any applicable statute, regulation or provision of this chapter
relating to liquor, as provided in division (B) below. Except in cases of lapse
of proof of financial responsibility, no suspension or revocation shall take
effect until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing
pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 through 14.69, as
it may be amended from time to time. The City Council may act as the hearing
body under that act, or it may contract with the office of Hearing Examiners
for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the City Council for violations of the provisions of
this chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any
rules promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time.
Revocations shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which the
revocation is imposed.
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of §
112.04 of this code, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the City Council after a finding
under division (A) above that the licensee has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, rule or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum
periods as follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed;
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days’ suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed;
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days’ suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed; and
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The City Council shall select the day or days during which the
license will be suspended.
      (4)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the City Council.
      (5)   Notice of cancellation or lapse of a current liquor liability
policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of the impending suspension
of the license. The holder of a license who has received notice of lapse of
required insurance or of suspension or revocation of a license may request a
hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing to the City Administrator,
a hearing before the City Council shall be granted within ten days. Any
suspension under this division (B)(5) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.
      (6)   The provisions of §
110.99 of this code pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in
addition to or in lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-52) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A,
as it may be amended from time to time, or any rules promulgated under that
chapter, is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as
provided by law.
   (B)   The City Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter as provided by the minimum schedule of presumptive civil penalties.
These civil penalties shall be in addition to any criminal penalties imposed
under division (A) above or any suspension or revocation imposed under §
110.33 of this code. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not
required in order for the City Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing
under the Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 through 14.69, as they
may be amended from time to time, is not required before the penalty is
imposed, but the City Council shall hold a hearing on the proposed violation
and the proposed penalty and hear any person who wishes to speak. Non-payment
of the penalty is grounds for suspension or revocation of the license. The
following is the minimum schedule of presumptive civil penalties in addition to
any suspensions which must be imposed unless the license is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any three-year period: $500;
      (2)   For the second violation within any three-year period: $1,000; and
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period: $2,000 for each violation.
   (C)   The term VIOLATION as used in §
110.33 of this code includes any and all violations of the provisions of this
chapter, or of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any
rules promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time.
The number of violations shall be determined on the basis of the history of
violations for the preceding three-year period.
(Prior Code, § 4-59) (Ord. 16-2005, passed 11-15-2005)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND HAWKERS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Notice prohibiting peddlers
   
111.03   Peddling in right-of-way
Licensing
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Exemptions
   
111.17   Application
   
111.18   Possession; display
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAWKER. Any person selling any edible goods or products from a vehicle,
pack, going about from place to place, carrying goods or products for the
purpose of sale and delivery.
   PEDDLER. Any person with no fixed place of business who is selling any non-
edible goods or products from a vehicle or pack, going about from place to
place, carrying goods or products for the purpose of sale and delivery.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house to house soliciting or taking or
attempting to take orders for:
      (1)   Services to be performed then or in the future; or
      (2)   The purchase of any goods, wares or merchandise, including
magazines, books, periodicals or personal property of any nature whatsoever for
delivery in the future.
(Prior Code, § 8-56)
§ 111.02 NOTICE PROHIBITING PEDDLERS.
   (A) Placard.
      (1)   Any resident of the city who wishes to exclude peddlers, solicitors
or hawkers from their premises may place upon or near the usual entrance to the
premises a printed placard or sign bearing the following notice: “Peddlers,
solicitors and hawkers prohibited.”
      (2)   The placard shall be at least three and three-quarter inches long
and three and three-quarter inches wide and the printing thereon shall not be
smaller than 48 point type.
(Prior Code, § 8-58)
   (B)   Entry onto premises restricted. No peddler, solicitor or hawker shall
enter in or upon any premises or attempt to enter in or upon any premises,
where a placard or sign is placed and maintained.
(Prior Code, § 8-59)
   (C)   Removal of notice. No person other than the person occupying the
premises shall remove or deface any placard or sign posted under this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-60)
Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate transient merchants, M.S. §§ 412.221, subdivision 19
and 437.02
§ 111.03 PEDDLING IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No activity allowed under this chapter shall be done on the public right-of-
way.
(Prior Code, § 8-61) (Ord. 1996-36, passed 10-15-1996) Penalty, see §
111.99
LICENSING
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of peddler, solicitor or hawker
within the city without first obtaining a license from the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8-81)
§ 111.16 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any sale under court order;
   (B)   Any bona fide auction sale;
   (C)   A sale at wholesale to a retail dealer;
   (D)   The sale of milk or ice;
   (E)   The sale of farm or garden products by the person producing same; or
   (F)   The sale of goods or products by minors wherein the proceeds from such
sale go for the support of a nonprofit organization.
(Prior Code, § 8-82)
§ 111.17 APPLICATION.
   Application for a license under this chapter shall be made to the Clerk on a
form supplied by him or her and shall show the following:
   (A)   The name of the applicant and of all persons associated with him or
her in the business;
   (B)   The type of business for which the license is desired;
   (C)   The length of time for which such license is desired;
   (D)   A general description of the thing or things to be sold;
   (E)   The present place of business of the applicant;
   (F)   The places of residence of the applicant for the five years just
passed; and
   (G)   Written permission from the landowner that the applicant may use
private property within the city to conduct his or her business.
(Prior Code, § 8-83) (Res. 1996-36, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 111.18 POSSESSION; DISPLAY.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be carried by the licensee and
such licensee shall whenever requested show such license to any officer or
citizen who demands to see the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-84)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-57)
CHAPTER 112: LAWFUL GAMBLING
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Donation required
   
112.03   Reports
   
112.04   Suspension, revocation and non-renewal of licenses
   
112.05   City Charitable Gambling Fund
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall have the
meaning as provided by M.S. §§ 349.11 et seq. and any successor statutes, as
they may be amended from time to time, dealing with regulation of lawful
charitable gambling.
   NET PROFITS. Profits less allowable expenses under the laws and regulations
of the state relating to lawful gambling.
(Prior Code, § 8-85)
§ 112.02 DONATION REQUIRED.
   Any organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling within the city shall
donate 10% of its net profits from the conduct of lawful gambling each month to
the Charitable Gambling Fund. Such donations shall be made within 15 days at
the end of each calendar quarter. For purposes of this section, a calendar
quarter shall be deemed to end at 11:59 p.m. on the last day of March, June,
September and December.
(Prior Code, § 8-86)
§ 112.03 REPORTS.
   All organizations conducting lawful gambling within the city shall provide
the City Administrator with copies of all reports they provide to the
Charitable Gambling Board.
(Prior Code, § 8-87)
§ 112.04 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION AND NON-RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   If any organization shall fail to make payments required by this section or
fail to provide the City Administrator with reports as required by this
chapter, such failure shall be grounds for the city to recommend to the
Charitable Gambling Board that the gambling license for such organization to be
suspended, revoked or not renewed.
(Prior Code, § 8-88)
§ 112.05 CITY CHARITABLE GAMBLING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a City Charitable Gambling Fund which shall be
held for safekeeping by the city in an account separate from any city funds.
These funds shall be designated “Afton Charitable Gambling Fund.” No
expenditures shall be made from these funds except upon resolution by the City
Council and then only for “lawful purposes” as defined by M.S. § 349.12,
subdivision 25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Each organization within the city which is licensed by the state to
conduct lawful gambling shall contribute 10% of its net profits as defined by
M.S. § 349.12, as it may be amended from time to time, monthly to the City
Charitable Gambling Fund.
(Prior Code, § 8-89) (Ord. 2005-6, passed 4-19-2005)
CHAPTER 113: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Classification
Licensing
   
113.15   License required
   
113.16   Issuance of a license
   
113.17   License fees; license investigation fees
   
113.18   Inspection
   
113.19   Expiration of license
   
113.20   Suspension
   
113.21   Revocation
   
113.22   Appeal
   
113.23   Transfer of license
Specific Businesses
   
113.35   Live entertainment; liquor
   
113.36   Adult entertainment uses
   
113.37   Escort agencies
   
113.38   Nude model studios
   
113.39   Sexually-oriented theaters and sexually-oriented motion picture
theaters
   
113.40   Sexually-oriented motels
   
113.41   Exhibits of sexually-explicit films or videos; regulations
   
113.42   Enforcement
   
113.43   Injunction
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate sexually-oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, to guard against the inception and transmission of
disease and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations. The provisions of
this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually-
oriented materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this
chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually-oriented materials
protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and
exhibitors of sexually-oriented entertainment to their intended market.
   (B)   The City Council further finds that experience from other cities
demonstrates that sexually-oriented businesses conducted in private by members
of the same or the opposite sex, and employing personnel with no specialized
training, are susceptible to operation in a manner contravening, subverting or
endangering the health, safety and welfare of members of the community by being
the sites of acts of prostitution, illicit sex and occasions of violent crimes,
thus requiring close inspection, licensing and regulation.
(Prior Code, § 9-1)
§ 113.02 CLASSIFICATION.
   The following are classified as sexually-oriented businesses:
   (A)   Sexually-oriented arcades;
   (B)   Sexually-oriented bookstores or sexually-oriented video stores;
   (C)   Sexually-oriented cabarets;
   (D)   Sexually-oriented conversation/rap parlors;
   (E)   Sexually-oriented massage parlors;
   (F)   Sexually-oriented motels;
   (G)   Sexually-oriented motion picture theaters;
   (H)   Sexually-oriented saunas;
   (I)   Sexually-oriented theaters;
   (J)   Escort agencies;
   (K)   Nude model studios; and
   (L)   Adult entertainment establishments.
(Prior Code, § 9-2)
LICENSING
§ 113.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A sexually-oriented business may not be operated without a valid
license, issued by the city for the particular type of business.
   (B)   (1)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by
the City Administrator. The application must be accompanied by a sketch or
diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a statement of
total floor space occupied by the business.
      (2)   The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared but must
be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with market dimensions of the interior
of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants who must
comply with §
113.39 of this code shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of that
section.
   (C)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
applicable laws and city code provisions by the city’s Fire Department and
building officials.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is an
individual, the individual must sign the application for a license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each
applicant must be qualified under §
113.16 of this code and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a
license is granted.
(Prior Code, § 9-3)
§ 113.16 ISSUANCE OF A LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall approve the issuance of a license to an
applicant within 30 days after receipt of a complete application. If any of the
following are true, the City Administrator may deny the license or immediately
revoke an already approved license:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant is delinquent in the applicant’s payment to the city
of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed
upon the applicant in relation to a sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   An applicant has intentionally failed to provide information
reasonably necessary for issuance of the license or has intentionally falsely
answered a question or request for information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of
this chapter within two years immediately preceding the application. The fact
that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect;
      (5)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
license by the city to operate a sexually-oriented business within the
preceding 12 months, or residing with a person whose license to operate a
sexually-oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually-oriented business has not
been approved by the city’s Fire Department and building officials as being in
compliance with applicable laws and city code provisions. The city’s Fire
Department and building officials must inspect the premises and issue
inspection reports within 30 days after the applicant identifies the premises
and requests an inspection;
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
      (8)   An applicant has been employed in a sexually-oriented business in a
managerial capacity within the preceding 12 months and has demonstrated that
the applicant is unable to operate or manage a sexually-oriented business
premises in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers on two or more occasions during the preceding 12-month
period;
      (9)   An applicant or the proposed sexually-oriented business proposed is
in violation of or is not in compliance with this chapter; and
      (10)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted of a
crime involving any of the following offenses:
         (a)   Prostitution as described in state statutes;
         (b)   Solicitation, inducement of promotion of prostitution as
described in state statutes;
         (c)   Receiving profit derived from prostitution as described in state
statutes;
         (d)   Other prohibited acts relating to prostitution as described in
state statutes;
         (e)   Obscenity as described in state statutes;
         (f)   Sale, dissemination, distribution, display or exhibition of
harmful material to minors as described in state statutes;
         (g)   Sexual performance by a child as described in state statutes;
         (h)   Dissemination or possession of child pornography as described in
state statutes;
         (i)   Indecent exposure as described in state statutes;
         (j)   Criminal sexual conduct as described in state statutes;
         (k)   Incest as described in state statutes; and
         (l)   Criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
   (B)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant or applicant’s spouse.
   (C)   An applicant who has been convicted or whose spouse has been convicted
of an offense listed in division (A)(10) above may qualify for a sexually-
oriented business license only when the time period required by division (A)
(10)(l) above has elapsed.
   (D)   The license, if granted, shall state the name of the person or persons
to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address of the sexually-
oriented business. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or
near the entrance to the sexually-oriented business so that it may be easily
read at any time.
(Prior Code, § 9-4) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.17 LICENSE FEES; LICENSE INVESTIGATION FEES.
   The annual fee for a sexually-oriented business license shall be set by
resolution of the City Council. The investigation fee for the purpose of
issuing a license shall be set by resolution of the City Council. In the event
that the license is denied upon application, the license fee shall be refunded;
however, no part of the license investigation fee shall be returned to the
applicant. No part of the annual license fee shall be refunded if the license
is suspended or revoked.
(Prior Code, § 9-5)
§ 113.18 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the city’s
Law Enforcement Department, Fire Department and city staff and building
officials to inspect the premises of a sexually-oriented business for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open
for business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually-oriented business or his or her agent
or employee commits a violation of this chapter if the person refuses to permit
a lawful inspection of the premises by the city’s law enforcement officers at
any time it is occupied or open for business, in accordance with §
10.20 of this code.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of a sexually-
oriented motel which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a
permanent or temporary habitation.
(Prior Code, § 9-6) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.19 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Each renewal license shall be issued for a maximum period of one
year. All licenses expire on December 31 of each year. Each license may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
113.15 of this code.
      (2)   Application for renewal should be made at least 90 days before the
expiration date. If the City Administrator determines good and sufficient cause
is shown by the applicant for failure to file a timely renewal application, the
City Administrator shall, if other provisions of this chapter are complied
with, grant the application.
   (B)   When the City Administrator denies renewal of a license, the applicant
shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If,
subsequent to denial, the City Administrator finds that the basis for denial of
the renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted
a license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Prior Code, § 9-7)
§ 113.20 SUSPENSION.
   The City Administrator may suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30
days following written notice and an opportunity to be heard if the City
Administrator determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with this chapter;
   (B)   Engaged in the sale, consumption or use of alcoholic beverages while
on the sexually-oriented business premises;
   (C)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually-oriented business
premises, in accordance with §
10.20 of this code;
   (D)   Knowingly permitted unlawful gambling by any person on the sexually-
oriented business premises; or
   (E)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage a sexually-oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 9-8) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.21 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Administrator may revoke a license preceded by written notice
and an opportunity to be heard if a cause of suspension in §
113.20 of this code occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The City Administrator may revoke a license if the City Administrator
determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information to the city during
the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substance on the sexually-oriented business premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
sexually-oriented business premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually-oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
113.16 of this code for which the time period required has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed in §
113.16 of this code, for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person
or persons were employees of the sexually-oriented business at the time the
offenses were committed;
      (7)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or sexual contact to occur
in or on the licensed premises. The term “sexual contact” shall have the
meaning as it is defined in state statutes; or
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for ad valorem
taxes, local lodging tax or other taxes or fees related to the sexually-
oriented business.
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
   (D)   Division (B)(7) above does not apply to sexually-oriented motels as a
ground for revoking the license unless the licensee or employee knowingly
allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or
sexual contact to occur in a public place or within public view.
   (E)   When the City Administrator revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually-oriented
business license for one year from the date revocation became effective. If,
subsequent to revocation, the City Administrator finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective. If the license has revoked under §
113.21 of this code, an applicant may not be granted another license until the
appropriate number of years required under §
113.16 of this code have elapsed.
(Prior Code, § 9-9)
§ 113.22 APPEAL.
   (A)   If the City Administrator requires a business establishment that is
unlicensed to apply for a license, denies the issuance of a license, or
suspends or revokes a license, the City Administrator shall send to the
applicant, or licensee, by certified mail, return receipt requested, written
notice of the action, and the right to an appeal. The aggrieved party may
appeal the decision of the City Administrator within ten days of receiving
notice of the City Administrator’s action. The filing of an appeal stays the
action of the City Administrator in requiring, suspending or revoking a license
until the City Council makes a final decision.
   (B)   The City Council may appoint a committee of the City Council or an
independent hearing officer to hear the matter, report findings of fact and a
recommendation for disposition to the City Council. Hearings on the appeal
shall be open to the public and the licensee or applicant shall have the right
to appear and be represented by legal counsel and to offer evidence in its
behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall make a final
decision.
   (C)   The City Council may condition denial, suspension, revocation or non-
renewal of a license upon appropriate terms and conditions.
(Prior Code, § 9-10)
§ 113.23 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer a license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate a sexually-oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 9-11)
SPECIFIC BUSINESSES
§ 113.35 LIVE ENTERTAINMENT; LIQUOR.
   (A)   All performers, dancers and persons providing live entertainment
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas in the
licensed facility or in areas adjoining the licensed premises where such
entertainment can be seen by patrons of the licensed premises shall remain at
all times a minimum distance of ten feet from all patrons, customers or
spectators and shall dance or provide such entertainment on a platform intended
for the purpose, which shall be raised at least two feet from the level of the
floor on which patrons, customers or spectators are located.
   (B)   No dancer, performer or person providing live entertainment
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas in the
licensed premises or in areas adjoining the licensed premises where
entertainment can be seen by patrons of the licensed premises shall fondle or
caress any patrons, customers or spectators.
   (C)   No customers, spectators or patrons of a licensed premises shall
directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or performer, and no dancer or
performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patrons, customers or
spectators.
   (D)   Except for licenses for a sexually-oriented motel, a licensee shall
not be open for business to the public during the following hours on the
following days: Monday through Sunday: not open before 8:00 a.m nor after 6:00
p.m.
   (E)   A licensee under this chapter shall be responsible for the conduct of
the sexually-oriented business being operated and shall not allow any illegal
activity to take place on or near the licensed premises, including but not
limited to prostitution, public indecency, indecent exposure, disorderly
conduct or the sale or use of illegal drugs. Every act or omission by an
employee or independent contractor of the licensee constituting a violation of
this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the licensee, if such act
or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the
licensee, or as a result of the licensee’s negligent failure to supervise the
employee’s or independent contractor’s conduct.
   (F)   No sales, consumption or use of any alcoholic beverages shall be
permitted at any time within the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 9-12) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.36 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT USES.
   The city shall hereby reference in its entirety M.S. § 617.242, subdivisions
(1), (2), (3), (4), (6) and (7), as it may be amended from time to time, for
additional regulations of adult entertainment uses above and beyond any of the
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-13)
§ 113.37 ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits a violation of this chapter if that person acts as an
escort or agrees to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 9-14) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.38 NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   Nude model studios shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits a violation of this chapter if he or she appears in a
state of nudity or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in
an area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public
right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 9-15) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.39 SEXUALLY-ORIENTED THEATERS AND SEXUALLY-ORIENTED MOTION PICTURE
THEATERS.
   (A)   A person commits a violation of this chapter if he or she knowingly
allows a person under the age of 18 years to appear in a state of nudity in or
on the premises of a sexually-oriented theater or sexually-oriented motion
picture theater.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
113.38 of this code if the person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to
public view or persons of the opposite sex.
(Prior Code, § 9-16) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.40 SEXUALLY-ORIENTED MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is a sexually-oriented motel as that term is defined in this
section.
   (B)   A person commits a violation of this chapter if, as the person in
control of a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
establishment that does not have a sexually-oriented business license, he or
she rents or subrents a sleeping room to a person and, within ten hours from
the time the room is rented, the person rents or subrents the same sleeping
room again.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the terms RENT or SUBRENT mean the act
of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Prior Code, § 9-17) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.41 EXHIBITS OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR VIDEOS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented
business, other than a sexually-oriented motel, which exhibits on the premises
in a viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film video
cassette or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually-oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, or granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of any engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The City Administrator may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal
applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted
and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since
it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the City Administrator.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this section must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the view area, specified in division (A)(5) above, remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times that
any patron is present in the premises and to ensure that no patron is permitted
access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in
which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to §
113.40 of this code.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot-candle as measured at the
floor level.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the illumination described above, is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(8) above
commits a violation of this chapter if the person knowingly fails to fulfill
that duty.
(Prior Code, § 9-18) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.42 ENFORCEMENT.
   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that a person appearing in
a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state: a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (C)   In a structure:
      (1)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Prior Code, § 9-19) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.43 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business
without a valid license or in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit
for injunctive or equitable relief as well as prosecution for criminal
violations.
(Prior Code, § 9-20) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is a misdemeanor offense.
Any person violating a provision of this chapter, upon conviction, is
punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000 and/or 90 days in jail.
(Prior Code, § 9-19)
Statutory reference:
   Adult entertainment establishments, see M.S. § 617.242
   Authority for local regulation allowed, see M.S. § 617.242, subdivision 7
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Use, discharge of firearms
   
130.02   Curfew for minors
False Alarms and Unauthorized Burns
   
130.15   Purpose
   
130.16   Definitions
   
130.17   Intrusion alarm systems
   
130.18   Fire or emergency medical alarm systems
   
130.19   Unauthorized burns
Cannabis Use
   
130.30   Definitions
   
130.31   Prohibition
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Crimes and offenses, see M.S. §§ 609.01 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 USE, DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   Nothing in this section shall regulate, control or preempt the use of
firearms for self-defense which shall be solely regulated and controlled by
M.S. §§ 609.06 and 609.65, and any applicable state statutes, as they may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   A FIREARM is defined as any gun from which any projectile is
discharged or propelled by means of an explosion, excluding devices used
exclusively for the firing of stud cartridges, explosive rivets or similar
industrial apparatus, instruments or equipment used by construction personnel,
licensed physicians or veterinarians in the course or scope of their
professions, and excluding the use of .22 caliber dummy launchers with blank
cartridges for training hunting dogs.
   (C)   Within the city, it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge out
of doors upon the land of another, including all land owned by the city, any
firearm, without having, in possession, written permission from the owner or
tenant of the land to discharge a firearm thereon, which must include the full
name, address, phone number and signature of the landowner or lessee as well as
the full name of the person given permission to hunt or shoot.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm in any place or
manner so as to endanger any person or property.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm in a city park,
on any school property or in any property located in an area zoned commercial
or industrial, with the exception of police officers acting in the scope of
their lawful authority.
   (F)   It is unlawful to discharge a firearm across or within the right-of-
way of any public road or highway.
   (G)   Firearms may not be discharged:
      (1)   Except by the landowner and his or her immediate family in
residence on the property or in the presence of the landowner or lessee of the
land, or with the written permission of the landowner or lessee of the land.
The person authorized to hunt or shoot must have in his or her possession the
written permission which must include the full name, address, phone number and
signature of the landowner or lessee as well as the full name of the person
given permission to hunt or shoot;
      (2)   Within 500 feet of any residence or accessory building on a parcel
under separate ownership from the parcel on which the firearm is discharged,
unless the person has written permission from the land owner as required in
division (G)(1) above; or
      (3)   Before 9:00 a.m. or after one-half hour before sunset, except when
hunting game or non-game animals in compliance with the requirements of the
state’s hunting restrictions and requirements, M.S. Ch. 97B, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (H)   No firearm shall be discharged in a manner reasonably expected to
cause a projectile to cross the boundary of a parcel not under common ownership
with the parcel from which the projectile is fired, unless the person has
written permission from the land owner as required in division (G)(1) above.
The shooter is responsible to take into consideration prior to discharging a
firearm the angle of discharge, the type of projectile and potential distance
of its travel unbroken by cover, the land topography, knowledge of parcel
boundaries and the field of fire or background beyond the target.
   (I)   It is unlawful to discharge a firearm while under the influence of a
controlled substance or under the influence of alcohol.
   (J)   Individuals discharging firearms must be adults or must be under the
supervision of a responsible adult, with the exception of juveniles 16 and
over, during the hunting season, who meet the legal requirements to hunt
according to the state’s hunting regulations. Nothing in this division (J)
shall prohibit juveniles from hunting in compliance with the requirements of
the state’s hunting restrictions and requirements, M.S. Ch. 97B, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (K)   Other than for allowed hunting, the discharge of firearms on a parcel
or contiguous parcels under common ownership is limited to a maximum of one day
every two weeks, not on consecutive days, a maximum of 50 rounds per day and a
maximum of one hour per day.
(Prior Code, § 14-1) (Ord. 1997-48, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 04-2016, passed 4-
19-2016; Ord. 01-2019, passed 5-21-2019; Ord. 05-2020, passed 9-15-2020)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate discharge of firearms, see M.S. § 471.633
   Hunting restrictions and requirements, see M.S. Ch. 97B
§ 130.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter and other basic necessities to the minor. The
person providing PRIMARY CARE or CUSTODY to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   No minor under the age of 16 years shall be in or upon the public
streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places,
public buildings; nor in or upon places of amusement, entertainment or
refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and
5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   No minor of the ages of 16 or 17 years shall be in or upon the
public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public
places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of amusement, entertainment or
refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between the hours of 12:00 p.m.
(midnight) and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed ro give a minor the right to stay ou1 until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment ami proof of the hours the employer requires the m
nor’s presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or trave’ing directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abusing his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence; or
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian or
other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Prior Code, § 14-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
FALSE ALARMS AND UNAUTHORIZED BURNS
§ 130.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to encourage security, fire or medical
alarm users and alarm businesses (including, but not limited to, sales,
installation and/or monitoring) to maintain the operational reliability and the
proper use of alarm systems so as to limit unnecessary police, fire and
emergency medical responses to false alarms and alarm malfunctions. This
subchapter governs burglary, robbery, intrusion, fire and medical emergency
false alarms, provides for service fees for excessive false alarms and
unauthorized burns, and provides for assessing service fees to the property
taxes in lieu of issuance of citations.
(Prior Code, § 14-3)
§ 130.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SITE. A single premises or location, or a multi-tenant location,
served by an alarm system or systems.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical, electrical or radio controlled device or
system which is designed to emit, transmit or relay a signal or message and
which, when activated, is intended to summon, or that would reasonably be
expected to summon, police, fire or emergency medical services. ALARM SYSTEMS
does not include:
      (1)   An alarm installed on a vehicle, unless the vehicle is permanently
located at a site; or
      (2)   An alarm designed to alert only the inhabitants of a premises and
which does not constitute a local alarm.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system signal or message which
elicits notification to and or response by the County Sheriff’s office and/or
Lower St. Croix Valley Fire District when there is no evidence of a crime,
fire, medical emergency or other activity which warrants a call for immediate
police, fire fighting or emergency medical assistance. This may include, but is
not limited to, an alarm discovered by a police or firefighter before
notification of an alarm from a monitor or from a local alarm system that is
not monitored and unauthorized burns.
   FIRE OR EMERGENCY MEDICAL ALARM. A system or portion of a combination system
consisting of components and circuits arranged to monitor and annunciate the
status of fire or medical emergency or supervisory signal initiating devices
which are intended to summon fire or emergency medical services of the County
Sheriff’s office and/or Lower St. Croix Valley Fire District.
   INTRUSION ALARM. A robbery, burglary, panic or other alarm intended to
summon the police, which is designed either to be initiated purposely by a
person or by an alarm system that responds to a stimulus characteristic of
unauthorized intrusion.
   LOCAL ALARM. An alarm system that emits a signal at an alarm site that is
audible or visible from the exterior of the structure.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire that is less than three feet high and three feet
wide and burning logs not less than three inches in diameter. A RECREATIONAL
FIRE is not intended for disposal of brush. RECREATIONAL FIRES do not require a
permit.
   UNAUTHORIZED BURN. Burning in excess of a recreational fire without a
permit.
   WARNING NOTICE. A notification to the owner or person in charge of an alarm
site by the County Sheriff’s office and/or Lower St. Croix Valley Fire District
for false alarms due to system malfunction or when no reason can be determined
for the false alarm. The WARNING NOTICE will require that the alarm system be
inspected and or serviced within five working days with written documentation
submitted to the Sheriff’s office and/or Lower St. Croix Valley Fire District
that the system is in working order.
(Prior Code, § 14-4)
§ 130.17 INTRUSION ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Each time the County Sheriff’s office responds to a false intrusion
alarm due to system malfunction or when no reason can be determined for the
false alarm, the County Sheriff’s office shall issue a false alarm warning
notice.
   (B)   A service fee for excessive false intrusion alarms shall be charged as
follows.
      (1)   No service fee shall be charged for the first three alarms
occurring within a 12- month period, calculated from the date of the first
alarm.
      (2)   Each false alarm in excess of three and up to and including six
within a 12-month period shall result in a service fee of $50 per false alarm.
      (3)   Each false alarm in excess of six within a 12-month period shall
result in a service fee of $100 per false alarm.
   (C)   No service fee shall be assessed if the false alarm is:
      (1)   Caused by an electrical storm, tornado or other act of God where
there is clear evidence of physical damage to the alarm system;
      (2)   Caused by the intermittent disruption of telephone circuits beyond
the control of the alarm site owner;
      (3)   Caused by electrical power disruption or failure in excess of two
hours beyond the control of the alarm site owner; or
      (4)   At a location where the County Sheriff’s office has installed the
VARDA-alarm or other similar alarms.
   (D)   All false alarm service fees are due and payable within 30 days from
the date of invoice. In the event that false alarm service fees are not paid as
required by this subchapter, the fees will be assessed to the property taxes. A
person commits an offense in violation of this subchapter if he or she suffers
or permits false alarms in excess of three within a 12-month period, with each
subsequent false alarm constituting a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 14-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.18 FIRE OR EMERGENCY MEDICAL ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Each time the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire District responds to a false
alarm due to system malfunction or when no reason can be determined for the
false alarm, the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire District shall issue a warning
notice.
   (B)   A service fee for excessive false alarms shall be charged as follows.
      (1)   No service fee shall be charged for the first three false alarms
occurring within a 12-month period, calculated from the date of the first
alarm.
      (2)   Each false alarm in excess of three and up to and including six
within a 12-month period shall result in a service fee of $50 per false alarm.
      (3)   Each false alarm in excess of six within a 12-month period shall
result in a service fee of $100 per false alarm.
   (C)   No service fee shall be assessed if the false alarm is:
      (1)   Caused by an electrical storm, tornado or other act of God where
there is clear evidence of physical damage to the alarm system;
      (2)   Caused by the intermittent disruption of telephone circuits beyond
the control of the alarm site owner; or
      (3)   Caused by electrical power disruption or failure in excess of two
hours beyond the control of the alarm site owner.
   (D)   All false alarm service fees are due and payable within 30 days from
the date of invoice. In the event that false alarm service fees are not paid as
required by this subchapter, the fees will be assessed to the property taxes.
   (E)   A person commits an offense in violation of this subchapter if he or
she suffers or permits false alarms in excess of three within a 12-month
period, with each subsequent false alarm constituting a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 14-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.19 UNAUTHORIZED BURNS.
   (A)   Each time the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire Protection District responds
to an unauthorized burn, the District shall charge the person(s) conducting the
unauthorized burn a service fee.
   (B)   The amount of the service fee for unauthorized burns shall be set
annually by the District in adopting its fee schedule.
   (C)   All unauthorized burn service fees are due and payable within 30 days
from the date of invoice. In the event that the unauthorized burn service fee
is not paid as required by this subchapter, the fees will be assessed to the
property taxes.
(Prior Code, § 14-7) (Ord. 1997-11, passed 8-18-1998)
CANNABIS USE
§ 130.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABIS FLOWER, CANNABIS PRODUCTS, LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES, AND HEMP-
DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS. The meanings as defined in M.S. § 342.01.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Property that is generally open to or accessible by the
public, and includes public property, but does not include those premises
licensed by the State of Minnesota to permit on-site consumption.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property, real and personal, that is owned, managed, or
controlled by the city, including, but not limited to: city buildings and all
the land thereon, parking lots, parks, pathways and trails, and city rights-of-
way consisting of both the traveled portion and the abutting boulevard,
sidewalks and trails, and any city personal property, such as motor vehicles,
city equipment, and the like.
(Ord. 13-2023, passed 12-19-2023)
§ 130.31 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products within public property or public
places.
(Ord. 13-2023, passed 12-19-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of §
130.31 is a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 13-2023, passed 12-19-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   TREES
      
153.   ZONING
      
154.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
155.   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
      
156.   SHORELAND MANAGEMENT
      
157.   LOWER ST. CROIX RIVER BLUFFLAND AND SHORELAND MANAGEMENT
      
158.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
159.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
      
160.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
161.   HERITAGE PRESERVATION
      
162.   MINING
      
163.   RIGHT-TO-FARM
      
164.   AIRCRAFT
      
165.   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES AND STRUCTURES
      
166.   PRESERVATION AND LAND CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENTS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Administration required
   
150.03   Application, administration and enforcement
   
150.04   Permits, inspections and fees
Vacant Buildings Registration
   
150.15   Policy
   
150.16   Definitions
   
150.17   Vacant building registration
   
150.18   Exemptions
   
150.19   Inspections
   
150.20   Collection of unpaid fees
Numbering Buildings
   
150.35   Purpose
   
150.36   Numbers required
   
150.37   Means of display
   
150.38   Shared driveways
Fire Prevention and Life Safety Code
   
150.50   Fire Code adopted
   
150.51   Establishment, duties of Bureau of Fire Prevention
   
150.52   Definition
   
150.53   New construction and renovation
   
150.54   Appeals
   
150.55   Open burning prohibited
   
150.56   Rules adopted by reference
   
150.57   Fire inspections of commercial buildings
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The state’s Building Code, established pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101 through
326B.194, as they may be amended from time to time, one copy of which is on
file in the office of the City Administrator, is hereby adopted as the Building
Code for the city. The Building Code is hereby incorporated in this subchapter
as completely as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 12-1801)
§ 150.02 ADMINISTRATION REQUIRED.
   As periodically adopted and amended by the state, the International Building
Code, as adopted by Minn. Rules part 1305.0011, will be administered as the
Building Code for the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1802)
§ 150.03 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The application, administration and enforcement of the Building Code
adopted in §
150.01 of this code shall be in accordance with Minn. Rules part 1300.2100. The
Building Code Department shall be the Building Code Department of the city. The
administrative authority shall be a state-certified Building Official.
   (B)   The appointing authority shall designate the Building Code
administrative authority for the jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1803)
§ 150.04 PERMITS, INSPECTIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permits, inspections and collection of fees shall be authorized in
M.S. § 326B.121, subdivision 2, as it may be amended from time to time. The
building permit fee schedule for the city shall be established by resolution of
the City Council.
   (B)   In addition to the permit fee required by division (A) above, the
applicant shall pay a surcharge to be remitted to the state’s Department of
Administration as prescribed by M.S. § 16B.70, as it may be amended from time
to time.
   (C)   In addition to the basic building permit fee, a park fee is hereby
imposed on each new home building permit as stated in Ch. 160 of this code,
pertaining to subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 12-1804)
VACANT BUILDINGS REGISTRATION
§ 150.15 POLICY.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public health, safety and
welfare by enactment of this subchapter which:
   (A)   Establishes a program for identification and registration of vacant
buildings;
   (B)   Determines the responsibilities of owners of vacant buildings and
structures; and
   (C)   Provides for administration, enforcement and penalties.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 150.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE VIOLATIONS. Violations of any code adopted and/or enforced by the city,
which may include but not be limited to the city code, codes covering plumbing,
electrical, mechanical or building construction, installation or maintenance
standards, zoning or fire codes.
   DANGEROUS STRUCTURE. A structure which is potentially hazardous to persons
or property, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   A structure which is in danger of partial or complete collapse;
      (2)   A structure with any exterior parts which are loose or in danger of
falling; or
      (3)   A structure with any parts, such as floors, porches, railings,
stairs, ramps, balconies or roofs, which are accessible and which are either
collapsed, in danger of collapsing or unable to support the weight of normally
imposed loads.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The City Administrator or duly authorized
representative.
   OWNER. Those shown to be the owner or owners on the records of the county’s
Department of Property Taxation, those identified as the owner or owners on a
vacant building registration form, holder of an unrecorded contract for deed, a
mortgagee or vendee in possession, a mortgagor or vendor in possession,
assignee of rents, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee, other person, firm or
corporation in control of the freehold of the premises or lesser state therein,
mortgagee for the benefit of the owner or owners of the beneficial interests in
possession, or its nominee. This person shall have a joint and several
obligation for compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   SECURED BY OTHER THAN NORMAL MEANS. A building secured by means other than
those used in the design of the building.
   UNOCCUPIED. A building which is not being used for a legal occupancy as
defined in
Ch. 153 of this code.
   UNSECURED. A building or portion of a building which is open to entry by
unauthorized persons without the use of tools or ladders.
   VACANT BUILDING. A building or portion of a building which is:
      (1)   Unoccupied and unsecured for a period of time over 365 days;
      (2)   Unoccupied and secured by other than normal means for a period of
time over 365 days;
      (3)   Unoccupied and a dangerous structure;
      (4)   Unoccupied and condemned;
      (5)   Unoccupied and has multiple housing or Building Code violations;
      (6)   Condemned and illegally occupied;
      (7)   Unoccupied for a period of time over 365 days and during which time
the enforcement officer has issued an order to correct nuisance conditions; or
      (8)   Unoccupied for a period of time over 1,000 days.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 150.17 VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The owner shall register with the enforcement officer not later than
30 days after any building in the city becomes a vacant building, as defined in
§
150.16 of this code.
   (B)   The registration shall be submitted on forms provided by the
enforcement officer and shall
include the following information supplied by the owner:
      (1)   A description of the premises;
      (2)   The names and addresses of the owner or owners;
      (3)   The names and addresses of all known lienholders and all other
parties with an ownership interest in the building;
      (4)   The period of time the building is expected to remain vacant; and
      (5)   A plan and timetable for returning the building to appropriate
occupancy or use and/or for demolition of the building.
   (C)   The owner shall order and pay for a code compliance inspection within
60 days after the designation of any building or portions thereof classified as
a vacant building. The code compliance inspection is required regardless of the
building’s legal occupancy standard or intended use. Owners of vacant buildings
on the effective date of this subchapter that have not ordered a code
compliance inspection shall have 60 days following the effective date of this
subchapter to order and pay for a code compliance inspection.
   (D)   In order to decrease the risk of fire, explosion or dangerous
conditions, the owner shall install an excess flow automatic gas shut-off valve
(“excess flow valve”) on the building’s gas piping immediately downstream of
the gas meter outlet within 60 days after the designation of any building or
portions thereof classified as a category II or a category III vacant building.
If the owner fails to install an excess flow valve, the enforcement officer,
under the authority of this code, may install the excess flow valve on the
building and enter the building if necessary. The costs incurred by the city
for installation of the excess flow valve shall be assessed against the
property as a summary nuisance abatement under the provisions of the city code.
Owners of category II or III vacant buildings with active water and gas service
on the effective date of this subchapter shall have 60 days following the
effective date of this subchapter to install an excess flow valve. Prior to
installation of the excess flow valve, the owner or another who can demonstrate
a secured interest in the property must obtain the required permits from the
Department of Safety and Inspections. Any excess flow valve model must be
approved and installed as required by the Department of Safety and Inspections.
   (E)   The procedures in division (D) above may not be followed under the
following conditions.
      (1)   If the enforcement officer determines that failure to install an
excess flow valve constitutes an immediate danger or hazard which if not
immediately addressed will endanger the health or safety of the public, the
city may proceed with an emergency abatement.
      (2)   The owner or another who can demonstrate a secured interest in the
property shall be exempt from the requirements of division (D) above if the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The owner or another who can demonstrate a secured interest in
the property has registered the building as a vacant building with the
enforcement officer; and
         (b)   After registration, the owner or another who can demonstrate a
secured interest in the property has received or ordered a code compliance
inspection and has shut off gas service and winterized the property.
   (F)   (1)   For all vacant buildings that have code violations, the owner
shall submit a plan to address the violations and a timetable which must meet
the approval of the enforcement officer.
      (2)   The enforcement officer shall require completion of the plan within
a reasonable period of time, up to 365 days. Any repairs, improvements or
alterations to the property must comply with any applicable housing or Building
Codes.
   (G)   All applicable laws and codes shall be complied with by the owner. The
owner shall notify the enforcement officer of any changes in information
supplied as part of the vacant building registration within 30 days of the
change. If the plan or timetable for the vacant building is revised in any way,
the revisions must meet the approval of the enforcement officer.
   (H)   The owner and the subsequent owners shall keep the building secured
and safe and the building and ground properly maintained until the plan has
been completed.
   (I)   (1)   The new owner(s) shall register or re-register the vacant
building with the enforcement officer within 30 days of any transfer of an
ownership interest in a vacant building.
      (2)   The new owner(s) shall comply with the approved plan and timetable
submitted by the previous owner until any proposed changes are submitted and
meet the approval of the enforcement officer.
   (J)   Vacant building fees are as follows.
      (1)   The owner of a vacant building shall pay an annual registration fee
of $500 each year the building remains a vacant building. The registration fee
is intended to at least partially recoup, and shall be reasonably related to
the administrative costs for registering and processing the vacant building
owner registration form and for the costs of the city in monitoring the vacant
building site.
      (2)   The first annual fee shall be paid no later than 30 days after the
building becomes vacant. If the fee is not paid within 30 days of being due,
the owner shall be subject to prosecution as prescribed in §
150.99 of this code.
      (3)   The fee shall be paid in full prior to the issuance of any building
permits, with the exception of a demolition permit.
      (4)   All delinquent fees shall be paid by the owner prior to any
transfer of an ownership interest in any vacant building. If the fees are not
paid prior to any transfer, the new owner shall pay the annual fee no later
than 30 days after the transfer of ownership and subsequent annual fees shall
be due on the original anniversary date.
   (K)   The enforcement officer shall include in the file any property-
specific written statements from community organizations, other interested
parties or citizens regarding the history, problems, status or blighting
influence of a vacant building.
   (L)   Any building or portion of a building classified as a vacant building
under this subchapter shall be posted with a placard by the enforcement
officer, unless it is determined by the city that the placard would further
detract from the character and attractiveness of the area.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 150.18 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In order to encourage the prompt renovation of property, the owner of
a fire-damaged building may be exempt from paying vacant building fees required
under the subchapter; provided, that within 30 days from the date of the fire,
the owner at the time of the fire, submits a request for an exemption in
writing to the enforcement officer.
   (B)   This request shall include the following information supplied by the
owner:
      (1)   A description of the premises;
      (2)   The names and address of the owner or owners;
      (3)   A statement of intent to repair and reoccupy the building in an
expedient manner; and
      (4)   An exemption granted under this section shall be valid for no more
than 90 days. In the event that the owner of the property at the time of the
fire who received an exemption under this section should, at any time after the
fire, transfer to another person any ownership interest in the subject
property, the exemption under this section is immediately void and any new
owner(s) shall be responsible for paying any required vacant building fees.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 150.19 INSPECTIONS.
   The enforcement officer shall inspect any premises in the city for the
purpose of enforcing and assuming compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter. Upon the request of the enforcement officer, an owner shall provide
access to all interior portions of an unoccupied building in order to permit a
complete inspection.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 150.20 COLLECTION OF UNPAID FEES.
   (A)   Written notice of fees.
      (1)   The enforcement officer shall, in addition to any other action the
enforcement officer may undertake, serve written notice of the fees in
conformance with the requirements set forth in this subchapter.
      (2)   Notice for collection of fees shall include the amount of the
vacant building fee that is the responsibility of the building owner and a
statement that the fee shall be paid within the time period(s) identified in
the notice.
   (B)   Fee and liability. The city shall be entitled to collect the costs of
vacant building registration and monitoring. The fees associated with the
vacant building program shall be a debt owed to the city and unpaid costs shall
be collected by special assessment under the authority in M.S. § 429.101, as it
may be amended from time to time. Action under this section does not preclude
any other civil or criminal enforcement procedure.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 6-18-2019) Penalty, see §
150.99
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
§ 150.35 PURPOSE.
   For the protection of citizens of the city and property owners, the City
Council finds that the drivers of emergency vehicles must be able to identify
easily the homes and businesses they serve and to reach them as quickly as
possible, and that in order to do so all principal structures within the city
must have readable addresses visibly displayed.
(Prior Code, § 20-61)
§ 150.36 NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of every principal structure within the
city to have the structure identified by reference to the county’s Uniform
Street Naming and Numbering System.
(Prior Code, § 20-62)
§ 150.37 MEANS OF DISPLAY.
   (A)   (1)   Numerals indicating the official numbers for each principal
building or each front entrance to the building shall be mounted at least three
feet above grade at the intersection of the entrance drive to the building with
the named street, in a manner as to be visible from both directions along the
street.
      (2)   Numerals shall be displayed in metal, glass, plastic or other
durable material at least three inches in height, in a reflective contrasting
color to the base.
   (B)   In the VHS District only, numbers may be affixed directly to the house
or building if they are clearly visible from the street.
(Prior Code, § 20-63)
§ 150.38 SHARED DRIVEWAYS.
   Whenever two or more buildings are served by one driveway or a privately
maintained road, the numbers for each building shall be displayed in a manner
as to identify each separate building, in addition to the numbers required at
the intersection of the entrance drive and the named street. If the driveway or
private road divides at any point, additional numbers shall be located at the
fork to indicate which buildings are served by each branch of the driveway or
road.
(Prior Code, § 20-64)
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Ch. 150
Statutory reference:
   Authority to number the lots and blocks of the city, see M.S. § 412.221,
subdivision 18
FIRE PREVENTION AND LIFE SAFETY CODE
§ 150.50 FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code and standards known as the Uniform Fire Code,
including Appendix Chapters I-A, I-B, II-A, II-B, II-C, II-D, III-A, III-B,
III-C, IV-A, V-A, VI-A, VI-C, VI-D and the Uniform Fire Code Standards
published by the Western Fire Chiefs Association and the International
Conference of Building Officials and the state’s Uniform Fire Code being
particularly the 2020 Edition thereof and the whole thereof. One copy of these
codes and standards must be and are now filed in the office of the City
Administrator and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if
set out at length herein. From the date on which the ordinance from which this
subchapter was derived shall take effect, the provision thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1851)
§ 150.51 ESTABLISHMENT, DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   The Uniform Fire Code shall be enforced by the Bureau of Fire
Prevention in the Fire Department of the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire Protection
District which is hereby established and which shall be operated under the
supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The Chief (or Marshal) in charge of the Bureau of Fire Prevention
shall be appointed by the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire Protection District on
the basis of established procedures.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail the members of the Fire
Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The Chief of
the Fire Department shall recommend to the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire
Protection District the employment of technical inspectors, who, when an
authorization is made, shall be selected through an examination to determine
their fitness for the position. The examination shall be open to members and
nonmembers of the Fire Department, and appointments made after examination
shall be for an indefinite term with removal only for cause.
(Prior Code, § 12-1852)
§ 150.52 DEFINITION.
   Wherever the word JURISDICTION is used in the Uniform Fire Code, it means
the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1853)
§ 150.53 NEW CONSTRUCTION AND RENOVATION.
   All plans and specifications for new construction and renovation of
commercial and public buildings, shall be submitted to and approved by the Fire
Department, Fire Prevention Bureau Officer, prior to the start of construction.
(Prior Code, § 12-1854)
§ 150.54 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief disapproves an application or refuses to grant a permit
applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the codes adopted in
this subchapter do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the codes
have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from
the decision of the Chief to city within 30 days from the date of the decision
appealed.
(Prior Code, § 12-1855)
§ 150.55 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to start or allow to burn, any open fire
on any property within the city without first having obtained a permit
therefore from the Lower St. Croix Valley Fire Protection District, except for
supervised recreational or cooking fires contained within approved fire rings,
pits or barbecue grills.
(Prior Code, § 12-1856) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.56 RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Chapter 8 of the state’s Air Pollution Control Rules current edition as
amended May 13, 1976, is hereby adopted by reference and is made a part of this
subchapter as if fully set forth herein. Three copies of the rules are on file
with the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 12-1857)
§ 150.57 FIRE INSPECTIONS OF COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Scope. This section applies to all commercial properties in the city.
   (B)   Purpose. The city has adopted this subchapter for the purpose of
requiring fire inspections of all commercial buildings to protect the general
public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. When consistent with the context, words in the plural
include the singular and words in the singular include the plural.
      CITY. City of Afton.
      COMMERCIAL BUILDING. Any nonresidential or nonagricultural structure, the
surrounding land and accessory structures.
      FIRE INSPECTION. An inspection of a commercial building to identify fire/
safety code violations and assist the property owner in complying with the
applicable fire and safety codes, as well as to obtain information to enable
the preparation of a pre-fire plan for the building.
      PROGRAM OF FIRE INSPECTION. A program of periodic fire inspections and
follow-up inspections to ensure or obtain compliance with applicable fire and
safety codes.
   (D)   Fire inspection. All commercial buildings shall be subject to a
program of fire inspection as developed and provided by the city through the
local Fire Department.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 4-21-2020)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of the Building Code adopted in §
150.01 of this code is a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-1805)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
150.15 through
150.20 of this code or providing false information to the enforcement officer
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished in
accordance with §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 03-2019, passed 6-18-2019)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalks
   
151.001   Permit required
   
151.002   Application for permit
   
151.003   Compliance with specifications
   
151.004   Duty of owner
   
151.005   Inspection of sidewalks
   
151.006   Repair by city
   
151.007   Supervision of repairs
   
151.008   Snow, ice, weeds, grass and rubbish removal
   
151.009   Removal of snow, ice, weeds, grass and rubbish by city
   
151.010   Removal or pruning
   
151.011   Removal or pruning of trees by city
   
151.012   Owner liability for cost
   
151.013   Assessment of costs
Street Reconstruction
   
151.025   Conformity with city street reconstruction standards
   
151.026   Street design
   
151.027   Alley design
   
151.028   Drainage
   
151.029   Pavement design
   
151.030   Construction plans and inspections
Interference with Public Land
   
151.045   Definitions
   
151.046   Restoration and relocation
   
151.047   Company default
   
151.048   Other conditions of use
Permit
   
151.060   Required
   
151.061   Application
   
151.062   Issuance
   
151.063   Fee
   
151.064   Term
   
151.065   Security for completion of work
   
151.066   Inspection of work
   
151.067   Display
Official Map of Approved Public Streets
   
151.080   Purpose
   
151.081   Official map
Damage to Public Streets
   
151.095   Purpose
   
151.096   Small project permit
 
   
151.999   Penalty
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.001 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct or repair any sidewalk on any street, avenue or
other public property in the city without first obtaining a permit; provided,
however, that no permit shall be required for any construction or repair made
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-1)
§ 151.002 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   All applications for permits required by this subchapter shall be made
on forms approved by the Council.
   (B)   All applications shall state:
       (1)   The dates construction or repair will begin and be completed; and
      (2)   A description of the contemplated construction or repair.
(Prior Code, § 20-2)
§ 151.003 COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall construct or repair any sidewalk in the city without
fully complying with the plans and specifications prepared by the city and set
forth in the permit issued under §
151.002 of this code.
   (B)   Expenses incurred by the city in establishing grades, assisting and
determining location and preparing basic engineering plans and specifications
may be paid in full or in part by the city or may be charged against the
applicant, in which case the expenses shall be payable in full as a condition
precedent to issuance of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 20-3)
§ 151.004 DUTY OF OWNER.
   The owner of any property within the city abutting on a public sidewalk
shall keep the sidewalk in proper repair and safe for pedestrians at all times.
(Prior Code, § 20-4)
§ 151.005 INSPECTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The City Engineer or designee shall periodically inspect the public
sidewalks within the city to determine that they are kept in proper repair and
safe for pedestrians. If a sidewalk abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the City Engineer shall cause a notice to be served on the
record owner of the property and the occupant either by registered or certified
mail or by personal service.
   (B)   This notice shall order the owner to have the sidewalk repaired and
made safe within 30 days, unless the owner requests a 30-day extension, which
the City Administrator may grant if there is no immediate threat to public
safety, and shall state that if the owner fails to do so, the City
Administrator or other official will do so on behalf of the city, and the
expense thereof, if not paid by the owner, made a special assessment against
the property concerned.
(Prior Code, § 20-5)
§ 151.006 REPAIR BY CITY.
   If a sidewalk is not repaired within 30 days after service of the notice
required in §
151.005 of this code, the City Engineer or designee shall report this fact to
the Council and the Council shall by resolution order repair of the sidewalk.
The City Engineer shall keep a record of the total cost of the repair
attributable to each lot or parcel of property and report this information to
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 20-6)
§ 151.007 SUPERVISION OF REPAIRS.
   The Council shall require inspection and supervision of all work done
whether by order of the Council or pursuant to permits issued under §
151.001 of this code. All work not done according to permit specifications
shall be corrected or repaired at the owner’s expense and all ongoing work
shall be stopped by the inspector when discovered.
(Prior Code, § 20-7)
§ 151.008 SNOW, ICE, WEEDS, GRASS AND RUBBISH REMOVAL.
   All snow, ice, dirt, weeds, grass or rubbish remaining on a public sidewalk
more than 24 hours after its deposit thereon is a public nuisance. The owner
and the occupant of any property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use due
diligence to keep the walk safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall
allow snow, ice, dirt, weeds, grass or rubbish to remain on the sidewalk longer
than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
(Prior Code, § 20-8) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.009 REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, WEEDS, GRASS AND RUBBISH BY CITY.
   When practicable, the City Administrator may cause to be removed from all
public sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt, grass, weeds or rubbish beginning 24
hours after the matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased
to fall. The City Administrator shall keep a record showing the cost of the
removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel and shall report the
information to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 20-9)
§ 151.010 REMOVAL OR PRUNING.
   Trees, branches or shrubs overhanging any sidewalk right-of-way within the
city shall be removed or pruned by the owner of the abutting property so that
the branches provide a clear space of eight feet above the surface of a
sidewalk and provide for not less than an unobstructed sidewalk width of four
feet. All dead or diseased trees, branches or shrubs which are or may become a
hazard to the use of the sidewalk right-of-way shall be removed by the owner of
the abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 20-10)
§ 151.011 REMOVAL OR PRUNING OF TREES BY CITY.
   After sufficient notice to the owner, the City Administrator may cause to be
removed or pruned from all sidewalk rights-of-way all branches to be removed or
pruned. The City Administrator shall keep a record showing the cost of the
removal or pruning adjacent to each separate lot and parcel and shall report
this information to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 20-11) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.012 OWNER LIABILITY FOR COST.
   The owner of property on which, or adjacent to a sidewalk, to which a
sidewalk has been constructed or repaired by the city; from which snow, ice,
dirt, weeds, grass or rubbish has been removed by the city; or from which tree
branches have been removed or pruned by the city, shall be personally liable
for the cost of the construction, repair, removal or pruning. As soon as the
service (repair, construction, removal, pruning and the like) has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Administrator shall prepare and
mail a bill to the owner and thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and
payable at the office of the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 20-12)
§ 151.013 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   On or before September 1 of each year, the City Administrator shall list the
total unpaid charges against each separate lot or parcel to which they are
attributable under §
151.012 of this code. The Council may then spread the charges against the
property benefited as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, and other pertinent statutes, for certification to
the County Auditor and collection in the following year along with current
taxes.
(Prior Code, § 20-13)
STREET RECONSTRUCTION
§ 151.025 CONFORMITY WITH CITY STREET RECONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
    City street reconstruction projects shall comply with the design criteria
in this subchapter. For more detailed information regarding street design, see
§
160.059.
(Prior Code, § 20-20)
§ 151.026 STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   Minimum widths. Minimum pavement widths (face-to-face of curb) for
each type of public street or road shall be as follows:
Type of Street Roadway Width Including Shoulders*
Type of Street       Roadway Width Including Shoulders*
Collector/commercial 44 feet
Cul-de-sac           45-foot turnaround radius
Industrial           44 feet
Local street (rural) 24-foot wide pave surface with a 4-foot wide aggregate
                     shoulder
Local street (urban) 32 feet, measured from face of curb to face of curb
Minor arterial       As determined by traffic needs
* Actual pavement width may depart from the standard minimum pavement width to
match width of the existing street pavement.
 
   (B)   Comprehensive Plan. The type of street shall be as noted in the city’s
Comprehensive Plan. The type of road to be constructed, whether it be rural or
urban, shall be based on the existing and proposed topography, impact on
adjoining properties, drainage consideration, environmental concerns, traffic
projections and other aspects of the area served. It is the city’s intent to
provide a roadway that both meets sound engineering principles and is
consistent with the nature of the area to be served.
   (C)   Corner radii. Roadways of street intersections shall be rounded by a
radius of not less than 25 feet. Roadways on alley-street intersections shall
be rounded by a radius of not less than six feet. Corners at the entrances of
the turnaround portions of the cul-de-sacs shall be rounded by a radius of not
less than 15 feet.
   (D)   Curb and gutter. Curb and gutter may be included as part of the
required street surface improvement and shall be designed for installation
along both sides of all roadways for urban design.
(Prior Code, § 20-21)
§ 151.027 ALLEY DESIGN.
   All alley pavement widths shall conform to the following minimum standards:
 
Classification           Pavement
Industrial or commercial 20 feet
Residential (one-way)    6 feet
Residential (two-way)    20 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 20-22)
§ 151.028 DRAINAGE.
   A complete and adequate drainage system design shall be required for all
city streets and may include a storm sewer system or a system of open ditches,
culverts, pipes and catch basins and ponding areas or both systems.
(Prior Code, § 20-23)
§ 151.029 PAVEMENT DESIGN.
   (A)   Street pavement. The design of street pavement for all streets covered
by this regulation shall be in accordance with the state’s Department of
Transportation pavement design standards. The designed thickness of the
surfacing elements shall be in accordance with the flexible pavement design
standard for road classifications as shown below. However, a minimum of six
inches of class 5 aggregate base and three inches of bituminous surfacing is
required. This bituminous surfacing shall consist of one and one-half inches of
bituminous base course and one and one-half inches of bituminous wear course.
More stringent design may be required by the City Engineer based on existing
soil conditions. The final bituminous wear course shall be place no sooner that
one year after the date that the bituminous base course is placed.
 
Classification                    Pavement Design: Axle Load
Arterials, collector street needs As determined by traffic
Local streets                     7-ton minimum
 
   (B)   Soil tests. To determine subgrade soil classifications and existing
pavement section thickness, soil samples shall be collected and analyzed by an
independent, certified testing laboratory. Soil samples shall be taken along
the center line of the proposed road at intervals not exceeding 300 feet.
   (C)   Curb and gutter. Concrete curb and gutter will be constructed on both
sides of urban design streets. Where required, the construction of concrete
curb and gutter shall be in accordance with section 2531 of MNDOT’s Standard
Specifications for Construction and shall be either barrier or surmountable
type curb. Bituminous curbs will not be allowed.
   (D)   Boulevards. All boulevards shall have a minimum of four inches of top
soil (black dirt) placed on them and then be seeded or sodded.
   (E)   Aggregate shoulders. The aggregate shoulders constructed on rural
design roadways shall consist of a four-foot wide section consisting of a
minimum of two inches of class 2 aggregate.
(Prior Code, § 20-24)
§ 151.030 CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Construction plans for the required improvements conforming in all
respects with the standards contained herein shall be prepared by the City
Engineer.
   (B)   All required improvements that are to be installed under the
provisions of this regulation shall be inspected during the course of
construction by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, 20-25) (Ord. 3-2008, passed 1-15-2008)
INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC LAND
§ 151.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator.
   COMPANY. A natural or corporate person, business association or other
business entity including partnerships and sole proprietorships, political
subdivision, public or private agency of any kind, its successors and assigns,
who or which seeks to or is required to construct, install, operate, repair,
maintain, remove or relocate facilities in the city.
   FACILITIES. Communications lines or equipment of any kind, including but not
limited to, lines or equipment for the transmission of audio, video or data or
other similar communications services, not otherwise governed by M.S. Ch. 238,
as it may be amended from time to time, including all trunks, lines, cables,
wires, optical fibers or other fiber optic cables, laser equipment, circuits,
physical connections, switching equipment, wireless communication equipment of
all kinds, towers and any necessary appurtenances owned, leased or operated by
a company on, over, in, under, across or along any public ground.
   PUBLIC GROUND. Highways, roads, streets, alleys, sidewalks, skyways, public
ways, utility easements and public easements in the city, parks, parking lots,
cemeteries and trails.
(Prior Code, § 20-31) (Res. 1995-9, passed 10-17-1995)
§ 151.046 RESTORATION AND RELOCATION.
   (A)   Restoration. Upon completion of the work contemplated by a permit as
set forth in §§
151.060 through
151.067 of this code, the company must restore the general use of the work,
including the pavement and its foundation, to the same or better condition than
existed prior to commencement of the work necessitating a permit. The work must
be completed as promptly as weather permits. If the company does not promptly
perform and complete the work, remove all dirt, rubbish, equipment and material
and restore the public ground to the same condition, the city may put it in the
same condition at the expense of the company. The company must, upon demand,
pay to the city the direct and indirect cost of the work done for or performed
by the city, including but not limited to the city’s administrative costs. To
recover its costs, the city first draws on the security posted by the company
and then recover the balance of the costs incurred from the company directly by
written demand. This remedy is in addition to any other remedies available to
the city.
   (B)   Company initiated relocation. The company must give the city written
notice prior to a company initiated relocation of facilities. A company
initiated relocation must be at the company’s expense and must be approved by
the city, the approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   (C)   City required relocation. The company must promptly, with due regard
for seasonal working conditions, permanently relocate its facilities whenever
the city’s police power in grading, regrading, changing the location or shape
of or otherwise improving public ground or constructing or reconstructing a
public service or utility system therein, the relocation will be at the expense
of the company. In other cases, the company and city may, by written agreement,
apportion the costs or relocation between them. If the relocation is done
without an agreement first being made as to who is to pay the relocation cost,
the relocation of the facilities by the company is not to be construed as a
waiver of its right to reimbursement for its relocation costs. If the company
claims reimbursement for the relocation costs, it must notify the city within
30 days after receipt of the city’s request for the costs.
   (D)   Relocation where public ground vacated. The vacation of public ground
does not deprive the company of the right to operate and maintain its
facilities in the city. If the vacation proceedings are initiated by the city,
the city must pay the relocation costs. If the vacation proceedings are
initiated by the company, the company must pay the relocation costs. If the
vacation proceedings are initiated by other persons, the company must pay the
relocation costs unless otherwise agreed to by city, company and the other
persons.
(Prior Code, § 20-32) (Res. 1995-9, passed 10-17-1995)
§ 151.047 COMPANY DEFAULT.
   (A)   Notice. If the company is in default in the performance of the work
authorized by the permit, including but not limited to restoration
requirements, for more than 30 days after receiving written notice from the
city of the default, the city may terminate the rights of the company under the
permit, subject to the city’s absolute right to revoke at any time in the
exercise of the city’s police powers. The notice of default must be in writing
and specify the provisions of the permit under which the default is claimed and
state the grounds of the claim. The notice must be served on the company by
personally delivering it to an officer thereof at its principal place of
business in the state or by certified mail to that address.
   (B)   City action on default. If the company is in default in the
performance of the work authorized by the permit, the city may, after the
notice to the company in division (A) above and failure of the company to cure
the default, take action as may be reasonably necessary to abate the conditions
caused by the default. The company must reimburse the city for the city’s
reasonable costs, including costs of collection and attorney fees incurred as a
result of the company default. The security posted under §
151.065 of this code will be applied by the city first toward payment for the
reimbursement.
(Prior Code, § 20-33) (Res. 1995-9, passed 10-17-1995)
§ 151.048 OTHER CONDITIONS OF USE.
   (A)   Use of public ground. Facilities must be located, constructed,
installed, maintained or relocated so as not to endanger or unnecessarily
interfere with the usual and customary traffic, travel and use of public
ground. The facilities are subject to additional conditions of the permit as
established therein, including but not limited to:
      (1)   The right of inspection by the city at reasonable times and places;
      (2)   The obligation to relocate the facilities pursuant to §
151.046 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Compliance with all applicable regulations imposed by the state’s
Public Utilities Commission and other state and federal law.
   (B)   Location. The facilities must be placed in a location and in a manner
as is designated by the city. The city may designate whether facilities shall
be placed above ground or in subsurface conduits.
   (C)   Emergency work. A company may open and disturb the surface of public
ground without a permit where an emergency exists requiring the immediate
repair of its facilities. In this case, the company must request a permit not
later than the second working day thereafter and comply with the applicable
conditions of the permit.
   (D)   Street improvements, paving or resurfacing. The city will give the
company written notice of plans for street improvements where permanent paving
or resurfacing is involved. The notice must contain:
      (1)   The nature and character of the improvements;
      (2)   The streets upon which the improvements are to be made;
      (3)   The extent of the improvements, the time when the city will start
the work; and
      (4)   If more than one street is involved, the sequence in which the work
is to proceed.
   (E)   Company protection of facilities.
      (1)   A company must take all reasonable measures to prevent its
facilities from causing damage to persons or property.
      (2)   A company must take all reasonable measures to protect its
facilities from damage that could be inflicted on the facilities by persons,
property or the elements. The company must take all reasonable protective
measures when the city performs work near the facilities.
   (F)   Guarding of obstructions or dangers. 
      (1)   If a company shall obstruct any public ground, the company shall
keep the obstruction or obstructions properly guarded at all times. From sunset
to sunrise, all obstructions must be guarded by a sufficient number of warning
lights placed in a manner that they will give proper warning of the
obstruction.
      (2)   The city may require any other restrictions or safety regulations
as may be in the public interest.
   (G)   Prior service connections. In cases where streets are at final width
and grade and the city has installed utilities and service connections to the
property line abutting the streets prior to a permanent paving or resurfacing
of the streets, and the facilities are located under the street, a company may
be required to install service connections prior to the paving or resurfacing,
if it is apparent that service will be required during the five-year period
following the paving or resurfacing.
(Prior Code, § 20-34) (Res. 1995-9, passed 10-17-1995)
Cross-reference:
   Mining, see
Ch. 162
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate dangerous excavations, see M.S. § 471.92
PERMIT
§ 151.060 REQUIRED.
   (A)   A company may not construct, install, repair, remove or relocate
facilities, or any part thereof, or otherwise open or disrupt any public ground
without first obtaining a permit from the city. The city shall require a
separate permit of a company for each location where construction, installation
or other disturbance of the public ground is to occur, or for each convenient
subdivision of construction, installation or other related work for which the
city determines in its sole discretion a permit is required.
   (B)   Each permit shall state specifically the locations of any facilities,
and the nature of the work necessitating the permit, and shall contain
reasonable regulations and conditions to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the populace of the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-51) (Res. 1995-9, passed 10-17-1995)
§ 151.061 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a permit is made to the Administrator. A company
shall apply for a permit or renewal of a permit a minimum of two weeks before
starting work and must submit detailed plans for street or sidewalk use and
pedestrian safety on major projects. This provision or portions thereof may be
waived by the city in the event of an emergency.
   (B)   Upon application by a company for a permit authorizing construction,
installation, repair, removal or relocation of facilities, or other disturbance
of public ground, the city may deny or approve the application. Denial of a
permit shall be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for denial.
Denial of a permit shall be appealable to the City Council which shall issue
detailed findings in the event the denial is sustained. An appeal of denial
shall be heard at the first regularly scheduled Council meeting and any
findings issued within 30 days of the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 20-52) (Res. 1995-9, passed 10-17-1995)
§ 151.062 ISSUANCE.
   If the Administrator determines that the applicant has satisfied the
requirements of this chapter, the Administrator may issue a permit to the
company.
(Prior Code, § 20-53) (Res. 1995-9, passed 10-17-1995)
§ 151.063 FEE.
   (A)   A company shall make a one-time permit fee payment for each permit
requested in an amount determined by the city. The permit fee shall include an
application fee for administrative costs, plus an additional amount to be
computed according to the portion of public right-of-way being occupied,
computed by length of area in 50-foot increments, and the duration of the
permit. The city shall establish a table of permit fees, which shall be subject
to approval by the City Council and a copy of which shall be maintained in the
office of the City Administrator. The table of fees shall be amended annually
and may be amended at other times as deemed necessary by the city.
   (B)   (1)   The permit fee shall be determined so as to fully reimburse the
city for all costs incurred as a result of the construction, installation or
other work approved by a permit, including but not limited to the costs
incurred in returning the public ground to its original condition.
      (2)   Should the construction, installation or other work approved by the
permit decrease the useful life or value of the public ground, or should the
same not be returnable to its original condition, the city may recover the
decreased value, damage, cost or fees from the permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 20-54) (Res. 1995-9, passed 10-17-1995)
§ 151.064 TERM.
   The maximum period allowed for a permit shall be three months. Construction,
installation or other opening, disturbance or obstruction of public ground
beyond the period covered by each permit will require obtaining a new permit
with payment of applicable fees and application for the permit shall be subject
to the same review as the original permit application.
(Prior Code, § 20-55) (Res. 1995-9, passed 10-17-1995)
§ 151.065 SECURITY FOR COMPLETION OF WORK.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to commencement of work, the company must deposit with the
city security in the form of certified check, letter of credit or construction
bond, in a sufficient amount as determined by the Administrator for the
completion of the work.
      (2)   If more than three work projects are to be constructed during a
calendar year, the applicant may, in lieu of individual securities, deposit
$2,000 with the city in a form satisfactory to the Administrator.
   (B)   The securities will be held until the work is completed plus a period
of two months thereafter to guarantee that restoration work has been
satisfactorily completed. The security will then be returned to the company
with interest if held for a sufficient length of time to be required by law and
then interest at the applicable statutory rate.
(Prior Code, § 20-56) (Res. 1995-9, passed 10-17-1995)
§ 151.066 INSPECTION OF WORK.
   When the work is completed, the company must request an inspection by the
Administrator. The Administrator will determine if the work has been
satisfactorily completed and provide the company with a written report of the
inspection and approval.
(Prior Code, § 20-57) (Res. 1995-9, passed 10-17-1995)
§ 151.067 DISPLAY.
   Permits shall be available at all times for ease of inspection on the
indicated worksite or at a site mutually agreed upon by the city and a company.
(Prior Code, § 20-58) (Res. 1995-9, passed 10-17-1995)
OFFICIAL MAP OF APPROVED PUBLIC STREETS
§ 151.080 PURPOSE.
    To identify and record on an official map those streets that have been
approved and accepted for maintenance by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 20-70)
§ 151.081 OFFICIAL MAP.
   (A)   The location, name, length and level of improvement of every public
street that has been approved and accepted by the City Council shall be shown
on the Official Map of Approved Streets published herewith and made a part of
this chapter, the map designated as the “Official Map of Approved Public
Streets” of the city and shall be maintained as provided herein by the City
Administrator.
   (B)   All of the notations, references and other information shown thereon
shall have the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein and are
hereby made a part of this subchapter by reference and incorporated herein as
fully as if set forth herein at length.
(Prior Code, § 20-71) (Ord. 1997-58, passed 1-21-2003; Ord. 4-2006, passed 5-
16-2006; Ord. 09-2013, passed 10-15-2013)
DAMAGE TO PUBLIC STREETS
§ 151.095 PURPOSE.
   To enable the city to receive notification of construction projects prior to
the start of construction activities so that the city is able to communicate
with the property owner and/or contractor regarding a construction project
prior to the start of construction activities to prevent damage to public
streets caused by construction activities.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 11-11-2020)
§ 151.096 SMALL PROJECT PERMIT.
   All construction projects that do not require other city permitting, but
involve the hauling of material to or from the site and/or the use of heavy
equipment that could damage public streets, shall require a small project
permit. The small project permit must be obtained prior to any construction
activity, including bringing heavy equipment to the site or hauling material to
the site in preparation for the construction project. The small project permit
will have a nominal fee as set out in the city’s fee schedule.
(Ord. 10-2020, passed 11-11-2020)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §§
151.001 through
151.013 is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished in
accordance with §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 20-14)
   (C)   Failure to secure the required permit prior to beginning construction,
excavation, installation or work of any kind in public ground shall constitute
a misdemeanor under §§
151.060 through
151.067, punishable upon conviction as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 20-59)
(Res. 1995-9, passed 10-17-1995; Ord. 1997-8, passed 3-17-1998)
CHAPTER 152: TREES
Section
Tree Diseases
   
152.01   Adoption of county model regulations
   
152.02   Modifications to county regulations
Tree Preservation and Reforestation
   
152.15   Purpose
   
152.16   Affected areas
   
152.17   Definitions
   
152.18   Replacement guidelines
   
152.19   Reforestation guidelines
   
152.20   Security for tree replacement and reforestation
   
152.21   Remedies
   
152.22   Regulations for commercial tree service contractors
 
   
152.99   Penalty
TREE DISEASES
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF COUNTY MODEL REGULATIONS.
   The September 5, 1972, resolution of the Board of County Commissioners,
setting forth regulations to prevent, control and eliminate epidemic diseases
of shade trees, is hereby adopted by reference in its entirety except as
modified in §
152.02 of this code. Not less than three copies of the resolution are on file
in the office of the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 10-91) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 152.02 MODIFICATIONS TO COUNTY REGULATIONS.
   Wherever used in the model regulations adopted in §
152.01 of this code, the words COUNTY or COUNTY OF WASHINGTON shall mean the
city, and the words COUNTY BOARD shall mean the City Council, insofar as may be
necessary to effectuate the policy of this chapter, which is hereby declared to
be to cooperate with and participate in the program of the county to prevent,
control and eliminate epidemic diseases of shade trees.
(Prior Code, § 10-92) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
TREE PRESERVATION AND REFORESTATION
§ 152.15 PURPOSE.
   The intent of this subchapter is to preserve, protect, maintain and manage
the community’s existing forest resource and the planting of trees to aid in
the stabilization of soil by the prevention of erosion and sedimentation;
reduce storm water supplies; aid in the removal of carbon dioxide and
generation of oxygen in the atmosphere; provide a buffer and screen against
noise pollution; provide protection against severe weather; aid in the control
of drainage and restoration of denuded soil subsequent to construction of
grading; provide a haven for birds which in turn assist in the control of
insects; protect and increase property values; conserve and enhance the city’s
physical and aesthetic environment and generally protect and enhance the
quality of life and the general welfare of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-119)
§ 152.16 AFFECTED AREAS.
   This subchapter shall apply to the following areas or applications to the
city:
   (A)   Any subdivision, regardless of the particular zoning district; and
   (B)   Any planned unit development.
(Prior Code, § 10-120)
§ 152.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIAMETER. The measurement of a tree’s trunk measured at four and one-half
feet above the ground.
   DRIP LINE. The farthest distance away from the trunk of a tree that rain or
dew will fall directly to the ground from the leaves or branches of the tree.
   FORESTRY SPECIALIST. A landscape architect or forester who has been retained
by the applicant.
   LOST SIGNIFICANT TREES. Trees within subdivisions, planned unit
developments, new construction permits, excavation and fill permits or other
land alteration permits, which were not identified to be lost within a tree
preservation plan, shall be considered lost as a result of:
      (1)   Grade change or land alteration, whether temporary or permanent, of
greater than one foot, measured vertically affecting 60% of the tree’s root
zone;
      (2)   Primary construction (i.e., sewer, water, storm sewer, gas,
electric, telephone and cable television and trenching) resulting in the
cutting of 60% of the tree’s roots at or within the root zone;
      (3)   Mechanical injury to the trunk of a significant tree causing the
loss of 40% of the circumference of the bark; or
      (4)   Compaction to 90% of proctor to a depth of six inches or more, of
60% or more of the surface of the soil within the tree’s root zone.
   PRIMARY CONSTRUCTION ZONES AREAS WITHIN SUBDIVISION OR PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT APPLICATIONS. All areas disturbed by construction of streets,
sanitary sewer, water, storm sewer, gas, electric, telephone and cable
television and trenching.
   REPLACEMENT TREES. Trees which must be at least two caliper inches as
defined by the American Standard for Nursery Stock (ANS 1-2-60) current edition
for deciduous trees and at least six feet high for coniferous trees.
REPLACEMENT TREES shall be of the following genus: maple, linden, honey locust,
oak, ash, bass wood, birch, fir, spruce, pine and other trees native to the
state or city.
   SECONDARY CONSTRUCTION ZONES WITHIN SUBDIVISION OR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
APPLICATIONS. All area that is occupied by a structure, driveways, parking
areas, areas above utility lines (including sanitary sewer, water, storm sewer,
electric, cable television, natural gas, telephone and other similar
utilities), Plus an additional portion of the lot which extends from the
furthest projection of the structure 30 feet surrounding the proposed building
area. This shall also include areas extending ten feet beyond all edges of the
driveway and paved areas and five feet beyond the edge of the utility line
trench.
   SIGNIFICANT TREES. A healthy deciduous tree measuring six inches in diameter
or greater or a healthy coniferous tree measuring four inches greater in
diameter.
   TREE. A woody plant which at maturity is 13 to 20 feet or more in height and
having a more or less definite crown.
   TREE PRESERVATION PLAN WITHIN SUBDIVISION AND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS. A
plan certified by a forester or landscape architect, indicating all of the
significant trees in the proposed development or subdivision. The TREE
PRESERVATION PLAN shall include the size, species and surveyed location of all
significant trees within the area of development, primary or secondary
construction zones. A TREE REPLACEMENT PLAN must also be submitted if the
proposed tree loss exceeds the allowable percentage of tree loss.
   TREE PRESERVATION PLAN WITHIN SUBDIVISIONS AND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS FOR
NEW HOME CONSTRUCTION. The applicant for new home construction must provide a
site plan on a certified survey indicating the TREE PRESERVATION PLAN
originally submitted and approved during the subdivision or planned unit
development process. Any additional tree loss not approved during the
subdivision and planned unit development process must follow the replacement
guidelines. Furthermore, security of $1,000 will be held until the replacement
trees have been planted and successfully survived for a period of one year from
the date of planting. If no replacement trees are anticipated, the security
will be reduced to $500 and be remitted to the applicant upon successful
completion of the final occupancy inspection which has verified the TREE
PRESERVATION PLAN has been followed. No deposit is required when there are no
significant trees on the lot.
   TREE PRESERVATION PLAN WITHIN INDICATED “WOODED AREAS” FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION,
EXCAVATION AND FILL PERMITS OR ANY OTHER LAND ALTERATION PERMITS. This
applicant must provide a TREE PRESERVATION PLAN certified by a forester,
landscape architect indicating all of the significant trees in the proposed
construction area. (For purposes of applying this definition, construction area
shall include all areas to be disturbed by grading for excavation and fill
permits and 30 feet surrounding the building pad area, ten feet along
driveways). The TREE PRESERVATION PLAN shall include the size, species and
location of all significant trees within the area and identify trees which
would be removed. Replacement of the trees must adhere to the tree replacement
guidelines set forth below. Single or individual lot development would not be
required to submit this plan.
   TREE PROTECTION.
      (1)   Snow fencing or erosion control fencing placed at the drip line of
significant trees to be preserved. The TREE PROTECTION measures shall remain in
place until all primary grading activity is terminated and the forestry
specialist has certified to the city that the tree preservation plan has been
followed.
      (2)   Fencing must be placed on a lot by lot basis, as new structures are
constructed. A tree survey will be submitted by a registered landscape
architect, licensed forester or other professional approved by the city, to
determine existing baseline canopy coverage. In addition, two trees will be
planted in the boulevard per 100 feet of front footage on any subdivision.
   TREE ROOT ZONE. The area under a significant tree which is at and within the
drip line of the tree.
(Prior Code, § 10-121) (Ord. 1997-33, passed 5-16-2000)
§ 152.18 REPLACEMENT GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Tree replacement within subdivisions and planned unit developments.
Tree replacement shall be required if primary and secondary construction remove
more than 30% of the significant trees. Every tree lost beyond 30% shall
require replacement at a rate of one-half inch for every one inch of tree loss.
The applicant must supply a tree replacement plan which has been certified by a
forestry specialist.
   (B)   Tree replacement within subdivisions and planned unit developments for
new home construction. Significant tree loss occurring beyond the indicated
tree preservation plan as submitted during the subdivision or planned unit
development process shall require tree replacement at a rate of one inch for
every inch of tree lost. If during construction, a tree is lost (unplanned), as
described in §
152.17 of this code, the replacement rate increases to two inches for every
inch of tree lost.
(Prior Code, § 10-122)
§ 152.19 REFORESTATION GUIDELINES.
   (A)   In the event of a subdivision or PUD in an area where there are less
than 15 trees per acre, reforestation will occur to achieve this ratio.
   (B)   The following criteria will be used to determine reforestation.
      (1)   Trees must be from the approved list of desirable species.
      (2)   No more than one-third of the trees may be from any one tree genus.
      (3)   Not less than 20% of the trees shall be conifers.
      (4)   Tree replacement sizes will be followed.
      (5)   Trees shall be used that are appropriate to the soil conditions
found on site.
      (6)   Two trees (consistent with tree replacement standards and included
as part of the overall calculation for reforestation) will be planted in the
boulevard per 100 feet of frontage in any subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 10-123)
§ 152.20 SECURITY FOR TREE REPLACEMENT AND REFORESTATION.
   (A)   Security within subdivisions or planned unit developments. A letter of
credit, cash or escrow will be provided by the applicant, in favor of the city,
in an amount of 150% of the tree replacement estimate. If the project requires
securities for other improvements, this amount will be held in the same
security. If a subdivision or planned unit development does not require
replacement, a $10,000 security will be held until certification of the
forestry specialist has been submitted indicating the tree preservation plans
have been followed.
   (B)   Security within subdivisions or planned unit developments for new home
construction. Security, in the form of a letter of credit, cash or escrow will
be provided by the applicant, in favor of the city, in the amount of $1,000
(charged with the building permit fees) will be held until the replacement
trees have been planted and successfully survived for a period of one year from
the date of planting. If no replacement trees are anticipated, the security
will be reduced to $500 and be remitted to the applicant upon successful
completion of the final occupancy inspection which has verified the tree
preservation plan has been followed. The deposits are not deemed to be in lieu
of tree replacement.
   (C)   Security for new construction, excavation and fill permits or other
land alteration activities, not within a subdivision or planned unit
development. Security, in the form of a letter of credit, cash or escrow will
be provided by the applicant, in favor of the city, in the amount of $1,000
(charged with the building permit fees) will be held until the replacement
trees have been planted. If no trees are planned to be replaced, but
significant trees are located on the construction area, the security will be
reduced to $300. At the point of final inspection for new construction or an
inspection after the permit work has been completed, and has complied with the
tree preservation plans, the deposits will be returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 10-124)
§ 152.21 REMEDIES.
   If disputes arise as a result of this applying this subchapter, the City
Council may gather information regarding the situation and determine the best
remedy for the dispute.
(Prior Code, § 10-125) (Ord. 1997-33, passed 5-16-2000)
§ 152.22 REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL TREE SERVICE CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   License required. No person, firm, corporation or franchise shall
engage in the business of commercial tree service within the city, unless a
license has been obtained from the City Administrator as provided herein.
   (B)   License application procedure. Applications for a commercial tree
service license shall be submitted to the City Administrator. The application
shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant and any individuals
authorized to represent the applicant; and
      (2)   License fee.
         (a)   The license fee will be as reflected in the city’s fee schedule.
The license fee will not be prorated.
          (b)   The license will expire on December 31 of each year.
         (c)   The license may be revoked or suspended upon violation of the
city’s vegetative cutting or tree preservation and reforestation regulations as
well as violation of scenic easement requirements and other city tree
protection regulations and requirements.
   (C)   Conditions of license. A commercial tree service license shall be
issued subject to the following conditions which shall be specified on the
license form.
      (1)   Possession of license. The commercial tree service license or a
copy thereof shall be in the possession of any party employed by the commercial
tree service firm when undertaking tree service activities within the city.
      (2)   Compliance with city regulations. The licensee must abide by the
city’s regulations regarding vegetative cutting, and regarding tree
preservation and reforestation.
   (D)   Enforcement. The City Council is responsible for the administration
and enforcement of this subchapter.
   (E)   Civil remedies. This subchapter may also be enforced by injunction,
action for abatement or other appropriate civil remedy, or by citation written
and processed as an administrative proceeding in city court.
(Ord. 06-2021, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of §
152.22 of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements
(including violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection
with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall constitute a misdemeanor
and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment
for not more than 90 days, or both, plus the cost of prosecution in any case.
Violations of §
152.22 of this chapter can occur regardless of whether or not a permit is
required for a regulated activity pursuant to §§
152.15 through
152.22.
(Ord. 06-2021, passed 7-20-2021)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   General purposes
   
153.003   Specific purposes
   
153.004   Interpretation and construction
   
153.005   Definitions
   
153.006   Application
   
153.007   Nonconforming uses, buildings and structures
   
153.008   Interpretation of conflicting provisions
   
153.009   Enforcement
   
153.010   Supremacy
Administration
   
153.025   Zoning Administrator; duties
   
153.026   Appeals and variances; Board of Adjustments and Appeals
   
153.027   Conditional use permits
   
153.028   Administrative permit
   
153.029   Amendments and rezonings
   
153.030   Building permits and the Building Code
   
153.031   Moving permits and relocated structures
   
153.032   Septic permits
   
153.033   Driveway access permits and standards
   
153.034   Farm site plan permits
   
153.035   Certificate of occupancy
   
153.036   Fees
   
153.037   Environmental assessment worksheets (EAW) and environmental impact
statements (EIS)
Districts
   
153.050   Districts; general provisions
   
153.051   Minimum requirements
   
153.052   Zoning district map
   
153.053   Uses
   
153.054   Floodplain Overlay District
   
153.055   Shoreland Management Overlay District
   
153.056   Conservancy Overlay District
   
153.057   St. Croix River Overlay District
   
153.058   Agricultural Preserves (AP) Overlay District
   
153.059   Agricultural (Ag) Zoning District
   
153.060   Rural Residential (RR) Zoning District
   
153.061   Village Historic Site, Residential (VHS-R) and Commercial (VHS-C)
Zoning Districts
   
153.062   Light industrial (I-1A), Light Industrial (I-1B) and Light Industrial
(I-1C)
   
153.063   Marine Services (MS) Zoning District
   
153.064   Preservation and Land Conservation Development (PLCD)
Design and Performance Standards
   
153.075   Performance standards
   
153.076   Principal building
   
153.077   Types of accessory buildings
   
153.078   Livestock
   
153.079   Agricultural operations
   
153.080   Fences
   
153.081   Screening
   
153.082   Landscaping
   
153.083   Reasonable maintenance required
   
153.084   Exterior storage
   
153.085   Lightning, lighting fixtures and glare
   
153.086   Parking
   
153.087   Off-street loading areas
   
153.088   Traffic control
   
153.089   Fallout shelters
   
153.090   Guesthouses
   
153.091   Dwelling units in Commercial and Industrial Zoning Districts
   
153.092   Radiation and electrical interference prohibited
   
153.093   Storage of hazardous materials
   
153.094   Explosives
   
153.095   Environmental pollution
   
153.096   Nuisances
   
153.097   Noise
   
153.098   Visual standards
   
153.099   Manufactured homes
   
153.100   Mining
   
153.101   Land reclamation and land grading
   
153.102   Soil conservation plans
   
153.103   Drainage
   
153.104   Vegetative cutting
   
153.105   Swimming pools
   
153.106   Tennis courts
   
153.107   Private kennels
   
153.108   Bed and breakfast facilities
   
153.109   Hotels
   
153.110   Marinas
   
153.111   Coin-operated machines
   
153.112   Garage sales
   
153.113   Home occupations
   
153.114   Farmers market
   
153.115   Short-term home rentals
   
153.116   Farm kitchen, accessory
   
153.117   Farm winery
Signs
   
153.130   Signs
   
153.131   Regulations by zoning districts
   
153.132   Regulations by sign type
   
153.133   Sign permit chart
Wind Energy Systems
   
153.145   Purpose
   
153.146   Definitions
   
153.147   General requirements
   
153.148   Required permits
   
153.149   Submittal requirements
   
153.150   District regulations
Solar Energy Systems
   
153.165   Scope
   
153.166   Purpose
   
153.167   Definitions
   
153.168   General requirements
   
153.169   Standards
   
153.170   Zoning district and lot size requirements
   
153.171   Solar use standards
   
153.172   Discontinuation and decommissioning
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “zoning ordinance” or “this chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 12-51)
§ 153.002 GENERAL PURPOSES.
   The general purposes of this chapter are to provide for the orderly growth
and renewal of the city, to protect and conserve its natural resources, its
ecological systems and its economic stability by fostering appropriate land
use, so as to preserve and promote the public health, safety and general
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 12-52)
§ 153.003 SPECIFIC PURPOSES.
   It is hereby determined by the City Council that in order to accomplish the
general purposes of this chapter as set forth in §
153.002 of this code, it is necessary and proper to establish and enforce the
regulations contained in this chapter for the following specific reasons:
   (A)   Stage development and redevelopment to coincide with the availability
of necessary public services;
   (B)   Divide the community into districts, providing for and regulating
therein the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration and use of
buildings, structures and land for residential, business, commercial,
industrial and other specified uses;
   (C)   Protect the character and maintain the stability of residential,
business, commercial and industrial areas within the community and prohibit
uses, buildings or structures which are incompatible with the character of
development in the areas;
   (D)   Provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   (E)   Limit congestion in public streets and to foster public safety and
convenience in travel and transportation;
   (F)   Provide protection against fire, explosions, obnoxious fumes and other
hazards in the interest of public health, safety and comfort;
   (G)   Prevent environmental pollution;
   (H)   Conserve natural resources and to prevent their destruction or
improvident exploitation.
   (I)   Preserve the value of land and buildings throughout the community;
   (J)   Provide for the gradual and equitable elimination of those uses of
land, buildings and structures, and of those buildings and structures which do
not conform to the standards for the area in which they are located and which
may adversely affect the development and the value of property in the areas;
   (K)   Provide for the enforcement of this chapter and to define and limit
the powers and duties of the administrative officers and bodies responsible
therefore;
   (L)   Protect and preserve economically viable agricultural land;
   (M)   Provide for the wise use and conservation of energy resources; and
   (N)   Implement the city’s comprehensive land use plan as prepared by the
Planning Commission and adopted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-53) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.004 INTERPRETATION AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   In the application of this chapter, the provisions thereof shall be
interpreted to be the minimum requirements necessary to accomplish the general
and specific purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to be a consent,
license or permit to use any property or to locate, construct or maintain any
building, structure or facility or to carry on any trade, industry, occupation
or activity.
   (C)   Except as herein provided, the provisions of this chapter are
cumulative and in addition to the provisions of other laws and ordinances,
heretofore passed or which may be passed hereafter, governing the same subject
matter as this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-54)
§ 153.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A subordinate building or structure which
is located on the same lot as the main building and the purpose of which is
incidental to that of the principal building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use related or subordinate to the principal use of the same
land.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure on agricultural land as defined in
AGRICULTURAL, RURAL, designed, constructed and used to house farm implements,
livestock or agricultural produce or products used by the owner, lessee or sub-
lessee of the building and members of their immediate families, their employees
and persons engaged in the pickup or delivery of agricultural produce or
products.
   AGRICULTURE, RURAL. A commercial food producing use on ten or more
contiguous acres and is defined under a portion of the state’s Agricultural
Property Tax Law (Green Acres Law), M.S. § 273.111, as it may be amended from
time to time, Agricultural Property Tax: Real Property shall be considered to
be in agricultural use provided that annually it is devoted to the production
for sale of livestock, dairy animals, dairy products, poultry and poultry
products, fur bearing animals, horticultural and nursery stock, fruit of all
kinds, vegetables, forage, grains, bees, apiary products and activities
incidental thereto.
   AGRICULTURE, SUBURBAN. A noncommercial food producing use primarily intended
for the use of the residents and usually on less than ten contiguous acres.
SUBURBAN AGRICULTURAL USES may include production of crops such as fruit trees,
shrubs, plants, flowers, vegetables and domestic pets.
   ANIMAL IMPOUNDING FACILITY. A not for profit organization whose primary
purpose is to provide animal impounding services and adoption of impounded
animals for the city and adjacent communities. ANIMAL IMPOUNDING FACILITIES
which meet the criteria specified herein shall not be considered commercial
kennels:
      (1)   More than 30% of the facility’s income shall be derived from the
impounding of stray animals;
      (2)   Less than 10% of the facility’s income may be derived from the sale
of pet food, leashes, pet training and other activities incidental to the
impounding and adoption of animals;
      (3)   No breeding of animals for sale or any other purpose shall be done
on the premises;
      (4)   Structure shall be completely enclosed to prevent noise from
reaching adjacent properties. Structure shall be required to meet architectural
standards required in this code and city ordinances;
      (5)   Proper and healthful disposal of animal waste and dead animals
shall be required;
      (6)   Lighting, fencing, screening, berming and the like, may be required
by the city; and
      (7)   Other conditions as may be deemed reasonable by the city.
   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measure used to compare differences in the production
of animal wastes which has a standard as the amount of waste produced on a
regular basis by a slaughter steer or heifer.
   ANIMALS, DOMESTIC FARM. Cattle, hogs, horses, bees, sheep, goats, chickens
and other animals commonly kept for commercial food producing purposes.
   ANIMALS, DOMESTIC PETS. Dogs, cats, birds and similar animals commonly kept
in a residence. Animals considered wild, exotic or non-domestic such as bears,
lions, wolves, ocelots and similar animals shall not be considered DOMESTIC
PETS.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms with cooking facilities designed to be
occupied as a residency by a single family.
   AREA, NET DEVELOPABLE. Those lands within a development parcel remaining
after the deletion of floodplains, wetlands, slopes greater than 13% and
unbuildable easements or rights-of-way.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. The replacement of any part or repair of any part which
does not require the removal of the engine head or pan, engine, transmission or
differential; incidental body and fender work, minor painting and upholstering
service when the service above stated is applied to passenger automobiles and
trucks not in excess of 7,000 pounds gross vehicle weight.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION (GAS STATION).
      (1)   A place where gasoline, kerosene or any other motor fuel,
lubricating oil or grease for operating motor vehicles is offered for sale to
the public and deliveries are made directly into motor vehicles.
      (2)   This definition includes greasing and oiling and the sale of
automobile accessories on the premises. This definition also includes minor
repairs, incidental body and fender work, painting or upholstering, replacement
of parts and motor services to passenger automobiles and trucks not exceeding
one and one-half tons’ capacity. This definition shall not include major
repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles or trailers;
collision service, including body, frame or fender straightening or repair;
overhaul, painting or paint job; vehicle steam cleaning; or automatic car or
vehicle washing devices.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE USES. Those uses catering to the traveling public. These
include auto and truck laundry, drive-in business, service station, repair
garage, public garage, motel, hotel, seasonal produce sales, motor vehicle
sales, trailer sales and rental, boat sales, rental services and restaurants.
    BASEMENT means that portion of a building that is partly or completely
below grade. See STORY ABOVE GRADE.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A residence at which at most two rooms may be rented to a
maximum of four persons to whom breakfast but no other meal may be served.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). The most effective and practicable means
of erosion prevention and sediment control, and water quality management
practices that are the most effective and practicable means to control, prevent
and minimize degradation of surface water, including avoidance of impacts,
construction-phasing, minimizing the length of time soil areas are exposed,
prohibitions, pollution prevention through good housekeeping and other
management practices published by state or designated area-wide planning
agencies.
   BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment, except as
provided in the Lower St. Croix Bluffland and Shoreland District, having the
following characteristics:
      (1)   A slope of 18% or greater as measured over horizontal distances of
50 feet or more;
      (2)   The slope drains towards the waterbody, river or adjoining
watershed channel; and
      (3)   Part or all of the feature is located in the Shoreland District.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. Land located within 40 feet from a crest of a bluff.
   BLUFFLINE. A line along a crest of a slope connecting the points at which
the slope, proceeding away from the waterbody, river or adjoining watershed
channel becomes less than 18% and only includes slopes greater than 18% which
drains toward the waterbody, river or adjoining watershed channel, except as
provided in §
157.04 of this code.
   BOARDINGHOUSE. A building other than a motel or hotel where, for
compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods, meals and/or sleeping
rooms are provided for three or more unrelated persons, but not to exceed eight
persons. Access to all boarding rooms shall be through the main entrance of the
house; no boarding room shall have separate access.
   BUILDABLE AREA.
      (1)   All land having a slope of 13% or less having enough suitable soil
for the installation of two on-site sewage treatment systems and that land
having a slope between 13 and 18% meeting the requirements of §
153.051(B)(11).
      (2)   BUILDABLE AREA does not include floodplains, wetlands, ponds, lakes
and other bodies of water; parks, scenic and conservation easements or other
unbuildable easements; steep slopes or rights-of-way. BUILDABLE AREA may
include required building setbacks.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof, and
used or built for the shelter or enclosure of any person, animal or chattel of
property of any kind. When any portion thereof is completely separated from
every other part thereof by division walls from the ground up, and without
openings, each portion of the BUILDING shall be deemed a separate BUILDING.
   BUILDING CODE. The state’s Building Code.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated authority, certified by
the state under M.S. § 326B.133, as it may be amended from time to time,
charged with the administration and enforcement of the state’s Building Code,
or his or her duly authorized representative. Also known as the CITY BUILDING
OFFICIAL.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot parallel to a public right-of-way
line, a side or rear lot line, a bluffline or a high water mark or line, behind
which buildings or structures must be placed.
   BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or where services are offered for compensation.
   BUSINESS SERVICE. A service provided to other businesses such as information
technology services or accounting services.
   CARPORT. An automobile shelter having one or more sides open.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. See §
153.035 of this code.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse with definite bed and banks to
confine and conduct continuously or periodically flowing water, including but
not limited to streams, rivers, creeks, ditches, drainage ways, canals,
conduits, culverts, waterways, gullies, ravines or washes; and including any
area adjacent thereto which is required to carry and discharge the regional
flood.
   CHANNEL FLOW. That water which is flowing within the limits of the defined
channel.
   CHURCH. See PLACES OF WORSHIP.
   CLUB or LODGE. A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, use of premises being restricted to members and their
guests. The serving of food and meals on the premises is permissible providing
adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are available. Serving of
alcoholic beverages to members and their guests shall be allowed, providing the
serving is secondary and incidental to the operation of the dining room for the
purpose of serving food and meals and providing further that the serving of
alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the applicable federal, state, county
and city laws.
   COMMERCIAL. See §
153.053 for permitted uses.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. A bowling alley, cart track, pool hall, vehicle
racing or amusement, dance hall, skiing, skating, firearms range, golf driving
ranges, miniature golf or putting courses, golf training facilities and similar
uses.
   COMMERCIAL SCHOOL. A nonpublic school, charging a fee for instruction,
serving a maximum of 25 students per day with adequate on-site sewage treatment
and off-street parking for students.
   COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A contiguous area where multiple
separate and distinct land disturbing activities may be taking place at
different times, on different schedules, but under one proposed plan. One plan
is broadly defined to include design, permit application, advertisement or
physical demarcation indicating that land-disturbing activities may occur.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The policies, statements, goals and interrelated plans
for private and public land and water use, transportation and community
facilities, including recommendations for planned execution, documented in
texts, ordinance and maps which constitute the guide for the future development
of the community or any portion of the community.
   CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USE. The uses specifically designated in each zoning
use district, which for their respective conduct, exercise or performance may
require reasonable, unique or extraordinary conditions in the use district for
the promotion or preservation of the general public welfare, health,
convenience or safety therein and in the city, and therefore may be permitted
only by a conditional use permit.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Includes construction activity as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)
(14)(x) and small construction activity as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(15)
and construction activity as defined by Minn. Rules part 7090.0080, subpart 4.
This includes a disturbance to the land that results in a change in the
topography, existing soil cover (both vegetative and non-vegetative) or the
existing soil topography that may result in accelerated stormwater runoff,
leading to soil erosion and movement of sediment into surface waters or
drainage systems. Examples of CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY may include clearing,
grading, filling and excavating.
      (2)   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY includes the disturbance of less than one
acre of total land area that is a part of a larger common plan of development
or sale if the larger common plan shall ultimately disturb one acre or more.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY does not include a disturbance to the land of less than
five acres for the purpose of routine maintenance that is performed to maintain
the original line and grade, hydraulic capacity or original purpose of the
facility. (Note: The community may wish to change this to a smaller disturbance
area. A smaller area is more restrictive than the state or federal
requirements, so it would be allowable for a local government.)
   COOPERATIVE COMMERCIAL WAREHOUSING. A type of warehousing that serves only
commercial businesses and provides commercial storage space larger than 350
square feet and up to 10,000 square feet that is suitable for business
operations by providing amenities including but not limited to electricity,
lights, climate control and a minimum 10% office component. Other
characteristics are as follows.
      (1)   Individual building size is a minimum of 4,000 square feet.
      (2)   The building exteriors are finished with EIFS or insulated metal
wall panels with an appearance similar to EIFS, on the sides without overhead
doors.
      (3)   No overhead doors directly face a public street.
      (4)   All overhead doors are screened from public streets.
   COUNCIL. The governing body of the city.
   CURB LEVEL. The grade elevation established by the Building Official of the
curb in front of the center of the building. Where no CURB LEVEL has been
established, the city shall determine a curb level or its equivalent for the
purpose of this chapter.
   DATA CENTER. A facility used to house computer systems and associated
components, such as telecommunications and storage systems.
   DECIBEL. The unit of sound measured on the “A” weighing scale of a sound
level meter, set on slow response, the weighing characteristics of which are
specified in the latest revision of Standards on Sound Level Meters of the USA
Standards Institute.
   DISPOSAL AREA, SEWAGE. That ground within the confines of the lot that does
not contain buildings and has an elevation at least 80 inches above the highest
known or calculated water table or bedrock formation and does not slope in
excess of 13%.
   DISTRIBUTION CENTER. A use that, apart from storing products, offers value-
added services like product mixing, order fulfillment, cross docking, packaging
and the like. The maximum size allowed for a distribution center is 30,000
square feet. A DISTRIBUTION CENTER use does not involve the exterior storage of
motor freight tractors and trailers.
   DREDGING. The process by which soils or other surface materials normally
transported by surface water erosion into a body of water, are removed for the
purpose of deepening the body of water.
   DRIVE-IN.
      (1)   Any use where products and/or services are provided to the customer
under conditions where the customer does not have to leave the car or where
fast service to the automobile occupants is a service offered regardless of
whether service is also provided within a building.
      (2)   A DRIVE-IN shall also include any restaurant, café or other food
and drink business which offers take home prepared food or food which can be
carried outside of the building for human consumption; any and all restaurants
commonly known as fast-food operations.
   DWELLING. A building or one or more portions thereof occupied or intended to
be occupied exclusively for human habitation, but not including rooms in
motels, hotels, nursing homes, boardinghouses, nor trailers, tents, cabins or
trailer coaches.
   DWELLING UNIT. A residential accommodation, which is arranged, designed,
used and intended for use exclusively as living quarters for a maximum
occupancy of five, with each unit equipped with its own sleeping, cooking,
eating, living and bathroom facilities, not shared with any other dwelling
units.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
public or any person for any specific purpose or purposes.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN (ESC PLAN). A plan for projects disturbing
less than one acre that is in compliance with the minimum requirements of the
MSCWMO and VBWD. The plan identifies erosion prevention and sediment control
practices, location and timelines for installation. The plan also includes
responsible parties and timelines for inspection and maintenance.
   EROSION PREVENTION. Measures employed to prevent erosion. Examples include
but not limited to: soil stabilization practices; limited grading; mulch;
temporary erosion protection or permanent cover; and construction phasing.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES (PUBLIC UTILITY USES). Underground or overhead gas,
electrical, steam or water distribution systems; collection, communication,
supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants or other similar equipment, accessories and buildings in conjunction
therewith.
   EXTERIOR STORAGE. The storage of goods, materials, equipment, manufactured
products and similar items not fully enclosed by a building and includes open
storage.
   FACILITIES FOR INSTITUTIONALIZED PERSONS. Housing for mentally ill, infirm,
elderly, physically disabled and similar housing of a specialized nature that
meets the city’s residential density requirements.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons each related by blood,
marriage, adoption or foster care arrangement living together as a single
housekeeping unit or a group of not more than four persons not so related,
maintaining a common household, exclusive of usual servants.
   FARM. See AGRICULTURE, RURAL.
   FARM KITCHEN, ACCESSORY. A commercial kitchen used to produce value-added
agricultural products as an additional process that involves using what might
normally be waste and processing it into a value-added product of the farm,
which may include canned goods, juices, vinegars, spreads, sauces, syrups,
salsas, preserves, baked goods and the like.
   FARM WINERY. A winery operated by the owner of a state farm, or agricultural
land, with a vineyard and producing table, sparkling or fortified wines from
grapes, grape juice, other fruit bases or honey with a majority of the
ingredients grown or produced in the state. Wholesale sales are allowed with
proper licensing. A FARM WINERY can include limited wine tastings and off-sale
retail sales of wine during the wine tastings. A FARM WINERY cannot be used as
a commercial event venue.
   FEED LOT. The place of confined feeding of livestock or other animals for
food, fur, pleasure or resale purposes in yards, lots, pens, buildings or other
areas not normally used for pasture or crops and in which substantial amounts
of manure or related other wastes may originate by reason of the feeding of
animals.
   FENCE. A partition, structure, wall or gate erected as a dividing marker,
barrier or enclosure.
   FILL. Any act by which soil, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any similar
material is deposited, placed, pushed or transported and shall include the
conditions resulting therefrom.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of an approved subdivision, meeting all
requirements of the subdivision ordinance, and in the form as required by the
city for purposes of recording. See Ch. 160 of this code.
   FLEX OFFICE. Industrial space that is used for warehouse space, a portion of
which can be converted to office or showroom space. The space can be “flexed”
into larger or smaller office vs. warehouse spaces as needed.
   FLOOD. See Ch. 159 of this code.
   FLOOR AREA. The gross area of the main floor of a residential building
measured in square feet and not including an attached garage, breezeway or the
like.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross area of the various floors of a
building measured in square feet. The basement floor area shall not be
included, other than that area devoted to the same use as the principal use of
the building.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained by dividing the gross floor
area of a building or buildings by the net area of the lot or parcel of land on
which the buildings are located.
   FLOOR PLAN, GENERAL. A graphic representation of the anticipated utilization
of the floor area within a building or structure, but not necessarily as
detailed as construction plans.
   FRONTAGE. That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing and improved public
right-of-way.
   FULFILLMENT CENTER, E-COMMERCE. Industrial space that serves ecommerce
merchants by enabling them to outsource warehousing and shipping. Sellers send
merchandise to the fulfillment center, and the outsourced provider ships it to
customers for them. The maximum size allowed for a fulfillment center is 30,000
square feet.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached one-story accessory building, or portion of the
principal building, including a carport, which is used primarily for the
storing of passenger vehicles, trailers or farm trucks.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building or space for the commercial repair or maintenance
of motor vehicles, but not including factory assembly of the vehicles, auto
wrecking establishments or junk yards.
   GARAGE SALE.
      (1)   An offering of goods to the public on a temporary basis by a person
or organization at a sale site which is not principally used for the purpose of
retail sales and where no other license or permit has been issued by the city
authorizing the sales. As used in this chapter, the term GARAGE SALE
encompasses yard sales, estate sales, moving sales, block sales, rummage sales,
boutiques and related sales where secondhand or other goods are sold or
displayed to members of the public on a temporary basis.
      (2)   GARAGE SALE as used in this chapter does not include estate sales
or auction sales, provided the number of sales in any calendar year does not
exceed the limitations imposed by this chapter, and further provided that the
sale is conducted by a licensed auctioneer.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. Any premises, except those described as a private or public
garage, used exclusively for the storage of power driven vehicles.
   GOLF COURSE. A golf course, as permitted by this chapter, shall have a
minimum parcel size of 40 acres for a nine-hole par three course and 100 acres
for a regulation 18-hole course. GOLF COURSE does not include miniature golf or
putting courses, driving ranges, golf training facilities or practice areas,
except as an accessory to a GOLF COURSE.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council.
   GRADE PLANE. A reference plane representing the average of finished ground
level adjoining the building at exterior walls. Where the finished ground level
slopes away from the exterior walls, the reference plane shall be established
by the lowest points within the area between the building and the lot line or,
where the lot line is more than six feet (1,829 millimeters) from the building,
between the building and a point six feet (1,829 millimeters) from the
building.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING. The vertical distance from grade plane to the average
height of the highest roof surface.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An activity conducted in a dwelling unit for gain, profit
or financial support by persons living in the dwelling unit.
   HOTEL. A building containing more than two guest rooms which lodging is
provided with or without meals for compensation, and which is open to transient
guests, and where no provision is made for cooking in any guest room, and in
which ingress and egress to and from all rooms is made through an inside lobby
or office supervised by a person in charge during all times when any of the
rooms are rented.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A hard surface, created by construction or usage, that
either prevents or retards the entry of water into the soil and causes water to
run off the surface in greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than
prior to development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways,
parking lots, storage areas and concrete, asphalt or gravel roads.
   INSTITUTIONAL HOUSING. See FACILITIES FOR INSTITUTIONALIZED PERSONS.
   JUNKYARD. An area where discarded or salvaged materials are bought, sold,
exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed, disassembled or handled, including
but not limited to scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber products,
bottles and used building materials. Storage of material in conjunction with a
permitted manufacturing process when within an enclosed area or building shall
not be included. The use shall not include organic waste or material.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Anyplace where four or more dogs over six months of age
are boarded, bred, trained or offered for sale.
   KENNEL, PRIVATE. Anyplace where four or more dogs over six months of age are
owned by any member or members of the household.
   LAND ALTERATION. The excavation or grading of land involving movement of
earth and materials in excess of 50 cubic yards.
   LAND DISTURBANCE.
      (1)   Any activity that result in a change or alteration in the existing
ground cover (both vegetative and nonvegetative) and/or the existing soil
topography. LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITIES include, but are not limited to,
development, redevelopment, demolition, construction, reconstruction, clearing,
grading, filling, stockpiling, excavation and borrow pits.
      (2)   Routine vegetation management, and mill and overlay/resurfacing
activities that do not alter the soil material beneath the pavement base, are
not considered LAND DISTURBANCE.
      (3)   In addition, other maintenance activities such as catch basin and
pipe repair/replacement, lighting and pedestrian ramp improvements shall not be
considered LAND DISTURBANCE for the purposes of determining permanent
stormwater management requirements.
   LAND RECLAMATION AND LAND GRADING. Changing the grade of the land by
depositing, removing or moving material. Depositing, removing or moving a total
of 50 cubic yards or more and/or the disturbance of land area of 1,000 square
feet or more of material per lot, either by hauling in and/or out or moving
materials in, out or within the lot, shall constitute LAND RECLAMATION AND LAND
GRADING.
   LANDSCAPING. Planting of trees, shrubs and ground covers.
   LOADING SPACE. A space, accessible from a street, alley or way, in or
outside of a building, for the use of trucks while loading and unloading
merchandise or materials.
   LODGING ROOM. A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities. In a suite of rooms, without cooking facilities, each room
which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as one LODGING ROOM.
See BOARDINGHOUSE.
   LOT. A parcel of land designated by metes and bounds, registered land
survey, plat or other means and which description is either recorded in the
office of the County Recorder or Registrar of Titles or used by the County
Treasurer or County Assessor to separate the parcel from other lands for tax
purposes.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines.
   LOT, BUILDABLE. A lot which meets or exceeds all requirements of the city
land use and development ordinances without the necessity of variances.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of, and abutting on, two or more
intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which does not exceed 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the frontage right-of-way line
and rear lot line. On a corner lot, the side with the largest frontage is its
depth, and the side with the lesser frontage is its width.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot except when any portion of a lot
extends into a public right-of-way or a proposed public right-of-way line of
the public right-of-way shall be the LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing improved
public right-of-way or an approved private road. In the case of a corner lot,
it shall be the shortest dimension along a public street. If the dimensions of
a corner lot are equal, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be designated by the owner and
filed with the Zoning Administrator. In the case of a corner lot in a
nonresidential area, the lot shall be deemed to have frontage on both streets.
   LOT LINE, REAR. That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
If the REAR LOT LINE is less than ten feet in length, or if the lot forms a
point at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be a line ten feet in length within
the lot, parallel to, and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A platted lot or metes and bounds parcel which has been
recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds or Registrar of Titles
prior to the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter was derived.
   LOT, THROUGH. Any lot other than a corner lot which abuts more than one
street. On a THROUGH LOT, all the street lines shall be considered the front
lines for applying this chapter.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured at the setback line.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions,
including but not limited to subdivisions of four or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of an existing street or
extension of the local government facilities, or the creation of any public
improvements.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or
more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein; except that the term includes any structure which meets all
the requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the secretary and complies with the standards
established under M.S. § 327.31, subdivision 3, as it may be amended from time
to time. No MANUFACTURED DWELLING shall be moved in the city that does not meet
the Manufactured Home Building Code as defined in M.S. § 327.31, subdivision 3,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL, LIGHT. Includes the compounding, processing,
packaging, treatment or assembly of products and materials provided the use
shall not generate offensive odors, glare, smoke, dust, noise, vibrations or
other effects which would be damaging to the environment. The uses include but
are not limited to the following: Lumberyards, machine shops, products
assembly, sheet metal shops, non-retail food and beverages, printing,
publishing, fabricated metal parts, appliances, clothing, textiles, medical or
dental devices, wholesale greenhouse or nursery, truck terminals. No retail
sales shall be permitted.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. All manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment or assembly of products and materials that may emit objectionable and
offensive noise, odor or pollution beyond the lot on which the use is located.
The uses include but are not limited to the following: Sawmill; refineries;
commercial feed lots; acid; cement; explosives; flour; feed and grain milling
or storage; meat packing; slaughterhouses; coal or tar asphalt distillation;
rendering of fat; grease; lard or tallow; alcoholic beverages; poisons;
exterminating agents; glue or size; lime; gypsum; plaster of paris; tanneries;
automobile parts; paper and paper products; glass; chemicals; crude oil and
petroleum products including storage; electric power generation facilities;
vinegar works; junkyard; auto reduction yard; foundry; forge; casting of metal
products; rock; stone and cement products.
   MANURE. Any solid or liquid containing animal excreta.
   MARINA. An area of concentrated small craft mooring, where ancillary
facilities may be provided for some or all of the services as the sale, storage
and repair of boats, fueling, sewage pumpout, boat launching, boat repair and
boat storage; except that MARINA does not mean temporary docks associated with
riparian residential development if the mooring area is of a size not to exceed
the resource limitations of the site and the needs of the residents of the
development.
   MEAN FLOW LEVEL. The average flow elevation of a stream or river computed as
the midpoint between extreme low and extreme high water.
   MEDICAL USES. Those uses concerned with the diagnosis, treatment and care of
human beings. These include, hospitals, dental services, medical services or
clinic, nursing or convalescent home, orphans’ home, rest home and sanitarium.
   MEZZANINE. A portion of the story below and shall not exceed one-third of
the floor area of that room or space in which they are located. A MEZZANINE
shall be open and unobstructed to the room in which the MEZZANINE is located
except for walls not more than 42 inches (1,067 millimeters) high, columns and
posts.
   MINING. The extraction of sand, gravel, rock, soil or other material from
the land and the removal thereof from the site. For the purposes of this
chapter, MINING shall not include: The removal of materials associated with the
construction of a building, the removal of excess materials in accordance with
approved plats or utility and highway construction, minor agricultural and
conservation items and sod removal, except as further regulated herein. See Ch.
162 of this code.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing three or less lots fronting on
an existing street, not part of a common plan of development nor involving any
new street or road or the extension of municipal facilities.
   MOBILE HOME. A single-family detached dwelling unit designed for year round
occupancy, constructed at a factory or assembly plant and drawn to the site on
a permanently attached undercarriage and wheels. MOBILE HOME shall not include
TRAILER as herein defined, nor shall it include manufactured homes which meet
or exceed the requirements of the state’s Manufactured Home Building Code.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a single mobile home
for the exclusive use of the occupants of the mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land under single
ownership designed, maintained or intended for the placement of two or more
occupied mobile homes. MOBILE HOME PARK shall include any building, structure,
vehicle or enclosure intended for use as part of the equipment of the mobile
home park.
   MOTOR COURTS OR MOTEL. A building or group of buildings, other than a hotel,
used primarily as a temporary residence of a motorist.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building or area in which freight brought by motor
truck is transferred and/or stored for movement by motor truck.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Afton.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). The program for
issuing, modifying, revoking, reissuing, terminating, monitoring and enforcing
permits under the Clean Water Act (§§ 301, 318, 402 and 405 and being 33 U.S.C.
§§ 1311, 1311, 1328, 1342 and 1345).
   NATURE CENTER.
      (1)   An area of land that is set aside, used and managed by a non-profit
organization or government entity with an explicit interest in protecting open
spaces, water resources and other natural resources. The land within the NATURE
CENTER is to be set aside for the express purpose of protecting and preserving
open space and natural resources, including the conservation of wildlife,
flora, fauna or features of geological, ecological and/or other special
interest, such as wetlands, streams and ravines.
      (2)   The land within a NATURE CENTER may also be used to provide
opportunities and/or spaces for study, research or public outreach, including
outdoor experiences such as hiking and biking trails. A NATURE CENTER may
include an interpretive center designed to educate people about nature and the
environment. Donations may be accepted to support the operation of the NATURE
CENTER.
   NOISE. One or a group of loud, harsh, non-harmonious sounds or vibrations
that are unpleasant and irritating to the ear.
   NOISE, AMBIENT. The all-encompassing noise associated with a given
environment, being either a composite of sounds transmitted by any means from
many sources near and far, or a single predominant source.
   NOMINAL PARCEL. A parcel not reduced by more than 10% of its lot area due to
right-of-way dedication or a perturbation in the rectangular survey system.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any lawful use of land or any lawful use of a building or
structure existing on the effective date of the ordinance from which this
chapter is derived, or any amendment thereto, which use does not conform with
the regulations for the district in which it is located after the effective
date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived or amendment thereto.
   NOXIOUS MATTER. Material which is capable of causing injury or is in any way
harmful to living organisms or is capable of causing detrimental effect upon
the health, the psychological, social or economic well being of human beings.
   NURSERY, DAY. A use where care is provided for three or more children under
kindergarten age for periods of four hours or more per day for pay.
   NURSERY, LANDSCAPE. A business growing and selling trees, flowering and
decorative plants and shrubs, and which may be conducted within a building or
without, for the purpose of landscape construction.
   NURSING HOME. A building with facilities for the care of children, the aged,
infirm or place of rest for those suffering bodily disorder. The NURSING HOME
shall be licensed by the state’s Board of Health as provided for in M.S. §
144.50, as it may be amended from time to time.
   OFFICE USES. Those commercial activities that take place in office
buildings, where goods are not produced, sold or repaired. These include:
banks, general offices, governmental office, insurance office, real estate
office, travel agency or transportation ticket office, telephone exchange,
utility office, radio broadcasting and similar uses.
   OFFICIAL CONTROL.
      (1)   Legislatively defined and enacted policies, standards, precise
detailed maps and other criteria, all of which control the physical development
of the city, or any part thereof, or any detail thereof, and the means of
translating into ordinances all or any part of the general objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CONTROLS may include, but are not limited to
ordinances establishing zoning, subdivision controls, site plan regulations,
sanitary codes, Building Codes, housing codes and official maps.
   OLD VILLAGE. The area originally platted as the Village of Afton.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Land devoted to the display of goods for sale, rent, lease
or trade where the goods are not enclosed within a building.
   OPEN STORAGE. Storage of any material outside of a building.
   OTHER SPECIALLY PERMITTED USE. A land use or development allowed with
appropriate conditions as determined by the Zoning Administrator and as
specifically set forth in this chapter.
   OWNER. All persons interested in a property as fee simple owner, life estate
holder, encumbrancer or otherwise.
   PARK. A noncommercial, not-for-profit facility designed to serve the
recreational needs of the residents of the community. Such facilities include
subdivision recreational facilities (neighborhood parks), community parks,
regional parks and special use facilities that are controlled by a governmental
jurisdiction. Such facilities may also include, but are not limited to, school
ballfields, football fields and soccer fields, if they meet the this
definition. Commercial amusement facilities, such as water slides, go-cart
tracks, and miniature golf courses, shall not be considered PARKS.
   PARK, PRIVATE. A park that is not controlled by a governmental jurisdiction.
   PARKING SPACE. A suitably surfaced and permanently maintained area on
privately owned property either within or outside of a building of sufficient
size.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. The minimum development standards as adopted by the
City Council and on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator. The
standards shall also be filed with the City Administrator.
   PERSON. An individual, political and corporate bodies and partnerships and
other unincorporated associations.
   PLACES OF WORSHIP. A building, together with its accessory buildings and
uses, where persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which
building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and
controlled by a religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The duly appointed Planning and Zoning Commission of
the city.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE OR USE. One which determines the predominant use as
contrasted to accessory use or structure.
   PRIVATE STREET. A street serving as vehicular access to two or more parcels
of land which is not dedicated to the public but which is owned by one or more
private parties.
   PROPERTY LINE. The legal boundaries of a parcel of property which may also
coincide with a right-of-way line of a road, cartway and the like.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANT. A contract entered into between private parties which
constitutes a restriction of the use of a particular parcel of property.
   PUBLIC LAND. Land owned and/or operated by a governmental unit including
school districts.
   PUBLICATION. An official notice as prescribed by state statute.
   PUBLIC WATERS. All water basins and watercourses that are described in M.S.
§ 103G.005, subdivision 15, as it may be amended from time to time.
   RACE TRACK. Any area where two or more animals or power driven vehicles are
raced for profit or pleasure.
   RECREATION EQUIPMENT (IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS). Play apparatus such as
swing sets and slides; sandboxes; poles for nets; unoccupied boats,
recreational vehicles and trailers not exceeding 25 feet in length; picnic
tables, lawn chairs, barbecue stands and similar equipment or structures; but
not including tree houses, swimming pools, playhouses exceeding 25 square feet
of floor area, or sheds utilized for storage of equipment.
   RECREATION VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle or structure designed and used for temporary, seasonal
human living quarters which meets all of the following qualifications:
         (a)   Is not used as the permanent residence of the owner or occupant;
         (b)   Is used for temporary living quarters by the owner or occupant
while engaged in recreation or vacation activities; and
         (c)   Is towed or self-propelled on public streets or highways
incidental to recreation or vacation activities.
      (2)   Examples of vehicles include van campers, tent camping trailers,
self-contained travel trailers, pick-up campers, camping buses and self-
contained, self-propelled truck chassis mounted vehicles providing living
accommodations.
   RECREATION VEHICLE PARKS. A park, court, campsite, lot, parcel or tract of
land designed, maintained or intended for the purpose of supplying the location
or accommodations for any recreation vehicles as defined herein, and upon which
the recreation vehicles are parked. The term RECREATION VEHICLE PARK shall
include all buildings used or intended for use as part of the equipment
thereof, whether or not a charge is made for the use of the park and its
facilities.
   REDUCTION YARD. A lot or yard where one or more unlicensed motor vehicles or
the remains thereof, are kept for the purpose of dismantling, wrecking,
crushing, repairing, rebuilding, sale of parts, sale as scrap, storage or
abandonment. See JUNKYARD.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEY. A survey map of registered land designed to simplify
a complicated metes and bounds description, designating the same into a tract
or tracts of a Registered Land Survey Number. See M.S. § 508.47, as it may be
amended from time to time. A REGISTERED LAND SURVEY shall not be used as a
means to subdivide property.
   RESEARCH. Medical, chemical, electrical, metallurgical or other similar
research and quality control, conducted in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   RESIDENCE, ATTACHED DWELLING. A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling
at one or more sides by a party wall or walls.
   RESIDENCE, DETACHED DWELLING. A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by
open space on the same lot.
   RESIDENCE, DUPLEX. A residential building containing two dwelling units.
   RESIDENCE, MULTIPLE DWELLING. A residential building, or portion of a
building, containing three or more dwelling units served by a common entrance.
   RESIDENCE, SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A residential building containing one
detached dwelling unit.
   RESIDENCE, TOWNHOUSE. A residential building containing two or more attached
dwelling units, each unit so oriented as to have all exits directly to the
outside.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. See §
153.053 of this code for permitted uses.
   RESORT. Any structure or group of structures containing more than two
dwelling units or separate living quarters designed or intended to serve as
seasonal or temporary dwellings on a rental or lease basis for profit with the
primary purpose of the structures being recreational in nature. Uses may
include a grocery for guests only, fish cleaning house, marine service, boat
landing and rental, recreational area and equipment and similar uses normally
associated with a resort operation.
   RESTAURANT. Any establishment having appropriate facilities for the serving
of food to the general public.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. See PROTECTIVE COVENANT.
   RETAIL BUSINESS USES. Stores and shops selling personal services or goods
for final consumption.
   RIDING STABLE. The training and riding of horses for private or public use
on lots of 20 or more acres that require indoor riding structures of
appropriate size. This may also include boarding of horses, training of horses
and riders and similar uses and activities.
   ROADSIDE SALES STAND. A structure used only for the display and sale of
products with no space for customers within the structure, on a seasonal basis.
   SAFEGUARD. A facility or device or any disposal system or combination
thereof designed to prevent the escape or movement of any manure, or solution
thereof, or other waste such as uneaten food, without limitation, from the
place of deposit or keeping thereof under the conditions that pollution of any
waters of the state otherwise might result therefrom.
   SALES, SEASONAL AGRICULTURAL. A business selling agricultural goods of a
temporary or seasonal nature. A business is limited to agricultural goods
actually raised on land owned or leased by the business operator. These sales
activities are limited to the following period: Saturdays from 7:00 a.m. to 12:
00 p.m., from May 15 to November 1. These sales activities shall be located
only in the VHS-C District on private property with permission of the landowner
or upon public property with the permission of the city, or both.
   SATURATED SOIL. The highest seasonal elevation in the soil that is in a
reduced chemical state because of soil voids being filled with water. SATURATED
SOIL is evidenced by the presence of soil mottling associated with the presence
of water or other information.
   SCENIC EASEMENT. An interest in land, less than fee title, that limits the
use of the land for the purpose of protecting the scenic, recreational and
natural characteristics. Unless otherwise expressly and specifically provided
by mutual agreement of the parties, the easement shall be: Perpetually held for
the benefit of the public; binding on the holder of the servient estate, his or
her heirs, successors or assigns. Unless specifically provided by the parties,
no easement shall give the holder or any beneficiary the right to enter on the
land except for enforcement of the easement.
   SCREENING. Earth mounds, berms or ground forms; fences and walls;
landscaping (plant materials) or landscaped fixtures, such as timbers; used in
combination or singularly, so as to block direct visual access to an object
throughout the year. In Ch. 157 of this code, SCREENING does not include fences
and walls.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving the
site. SEDIMENT CONTROL practices include: silt fences, sediment traps, earth
dikes, drainage swales, check dams, subsurface drains, bio rolls, rock logs,
compost logs, storm drain inlet protection and temporary or permanent
sedimentation basins.
   SELF STORAGE, MULTI STORY. A climate controlled multi-story facility with
quality exterior materials as required by the Industrial Zone architectural
standards.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system or other facility and a street right-of-way, ordinary high
water level mark, sewage treatment system, bluffline, road, highway, property
line or other facility.
   SHELTER, FALLOUT OR BLAST. A structure or portion of a structure intended to
provide protection to human life during periods of danger from nuclear fallout,
blasts, air raids, storms or other emergencies.
   SHIPPING CONTAINER. A steel cargo container that is wind and waterproof.
   SHOPPING CENTER. Any grouping of two or more principal retail uses whether
on a single lot or on abutting lots under multiple or single ownership.
   SIGN. A display, illustration, structure or device which directs attention
to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or
business.
   SLOPE. Rise or fall in land surface, expressed as the ratio h:v in which ‘h’
is horizontal distance and ‘v’ is vertical rise or fall of the land surface.
Equivalently, SLOPE may be expressed as a percentage, calculated to be 100
times ‘v’ divided by ‘h’.
   SMALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.
      (1)   As defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(15). SMALL CONSTRUCTION
ACTIVITIES include clearing, grading and excavating that result in land
disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre and less than five acres.
      (2)   SMALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY includes the disturbance of less than
one acre of total land area that is part of a larger common plan of development
or sale if the larger common plan shall ultimately disturb equal to or greater
than one and less than five acres.
   ST. CROIX RIVERWAY. All lands and public waters within the riverway boundary
subject to the standards and criteria for the state’s Lower Saint Croix
National Scenic Riverway.
   STABILIZED. Exposed ground surface has been covered by appropriate materials
such as mulch, staked sod, riprap, erosion control blanket, mats or other
material that prevents erosion from occurring. Seeding alone, whether with
grass, agricultural crop or other seeding, is not stabilization. Mulch
materials must achieve approximately 90% ground coverage (typically two ton/
acre.)
   STORMWATER. As defined under Minn. Rules part 7077.0105, subpart 41b, and
includes precipitation runoff, stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff and any other
surface runoff and drainage.
   STORMWATER FACILITY. A stationary and permanent BMP that is designed,
constructed and operated to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants in
stormwater.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan for stormwater
discharge that includes erosion prevention BMPs, sediment control BAIN and
permanent stormwater management  systems that, when implemented, shall decrease
soil erosion on a parcel of land and decrease off-site nonpoint pollution.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the upper surface of a
floor and the upper surface of the floor or roof next above. A basement shall
be counted as a STORY. A mezzanine shall not be counted as a STORY.
   STORY ABOVE GRADE. Any story having its finished floor surface entirely
above grade plane, except that a basement shall be considered as a STORY ABOVE
GRADE plane where the finished surface of the floor above the basement is:
      (1)   More than six feet (1,829 millimeters) above grade plane;
      (2)   More than six feet (1,829 millimeters) above the finished ground
level for more than 50% of the total building perimeter; and
      (3)   More than 12 feet (3,658 millimeters) above the finished ground
level at any point.
   STORAGE SITE. Any tract or parcel of land, including any constructed storage
platform, tank or other artificial or natural area or containment facility
where manure is stored or kept and which is so located that the escape or
movement of the manure or a solution thereof from the STORAGE SITE into the
underlying ground might result in pollution of any waters.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which affords a primary means of access to
abutting property, and shall also include avenue, highway, road or way.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which serves or is designed to serve as a
trafficway for a neighborhood or as a feeder to a major road.
   STREET, INTERMEDIATE OR MINOR ARTERIAL. A street which serves or is designed
to serve heavy flows of traffic and which is used primarily as a route for
traffic between communities and/or other heavy traffic generating areas.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street intended to serve primarily as an access to abutting
properties.
   STREET PAVEMENT. The wearing of exposed surface of the roadway, used by
vehicular traffic.
   STREET WIDTH. The width of the right-of-way, measured at right angles to the
centerline of the street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, other than incidental repairs, which
would affect the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls,
columns, beams, girders or foundations.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something having a location on the ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels, for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development. The
term includes resubdivision and, when appropriate to the context, shall relate
to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   SUBSTANDARD BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR LOT. Any building, structure or lot
lawfully existing on the effective date of the ordinance from which this
chapter is derived or any amendment thereto which building, structure or lot
does not conform with the regulations, including dimensional standards, for the
district in which it is located after the effective date of the ordinance from
which this chapter is derived or amendment thereto.
   SUPPER CLUB. A building with facilities for the preparation and serving of
meals and where meals are regularly served at tables to the general public. The
building must be of sufficient size and design to permit the serving of meals
to not less than 50 guests at one time. Intoxicating liquors may be sold on-
sale and live entertainment and/or dancing shall be permitted.
   SURFACE WATER(S). All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, wetlands, reservoirs,
springs, rivers, drainage systems, waterways, watercourses and irrigation
systems whether natural or artificial, public or private, except that SURFACE
WATERS do not include treatment basins or ponds that were constructed from
upland.
   TAVERN OR BAR. A building with facilities for the serving of 3.2% malt
liquor, wine, set-ups and short order foods.
   TEMPORARY EROSION PROTECTION. Methods employed to prevent erosion during
construction activities. Examples of TEMPORARY EROSION PROTECTION include;
straw, wood fiber blanket, wood chips, vegetation, mulch and rolled erosion
control products.
   TRAILER.
      (1)   Any vehicle or structure designed and used for human living
quarters which meets all of the following qualifications:
         (a)   Is not used as the residence of the owner or occupant;
         (b)   Is used for temporary living quarters by the owner or occupant
while engaged in recreational or vacation activities; and
         (c)   Is towed or otherwise transported, by its own or by other motive
power, on the public streets or highways incidental to recreational or vacation
activities.
      (2)   The term TRAILER shall not include MOBILE HOME. The term TRAILER
shall include, but not be limited to campers, camper tents, house trailers,
camping trailers, travel trailers, tent trailers, pick-up campers, camping
buses and any other self-propelled vehicle constructed to provide living
accommodations.
   TRAILER PARK. A park, court, campsite, lot, parcel or tract of land
designed, maintained or intended for the purpose of supplying the temporary
location or accommodations for any trailers, as defined herein, and upon which
the trailers are parked. The term TRAILER PARK shall include all buildings used
or intended for use as part of the equipment thereof whether or not a charge is
made for the use of the park and its facilities.
   TRANSPORTATION TERMINAL. Truck, taxi, air, train, bus and mass transit
terminal and storage area, including minor freight (solid and liquid) terminal,
but only if accessory to a principal use permitted in Industrial Zoning
Districts.
   TRUCK STOP. A motor fuel station devoted principally to the needs of tractor
trailer units and trucks and which may include eating and/or sleeping
facilities.
   UNDERGROUND WATERS (GROUNDWATER). Water contained below the surface of the
earth in the saturated zone including, without limitation, all waters whether
under confined, unconfined or perched conditions, in near surface
unconsolidated sediment or in rock formations deeper underground. The term
GROUNDWATER shall be synonymous with UNDERGROUND WATER.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use subordinate to and serving the principal use or
structure on the same lot and customarily incidental thereto.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. Use of land, buildings or structures legally existing at
the time of adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter was derived that
does not comply with all the regulations of this chapter or any amendments
hereto governing the zoning district in which the use is located. See §
153.007 of this code.
   USE, OPEN. The use of a lot without a building or including a building
incidental to the open use.
   USE, PERMITTED. A public or private use which of itself conforms with the
purposes, objectives, requirements, regulations and performance standards of a
particular district.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either permitted,
conditional or special.
   VALUE-ADDED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT. An agricultural commodity or product
produced and/or marketed in a way as to provide enhanced value, including
expanded customer base and increased revenue, such as organically produced
products and/or a change in the physical state or form of the product (such as
milling wheat into flour or making strawberries into jam).
   VARIANCE. A modification or variation of the strict provisions of this
chapter as applied to a specific piece of property in order to provide relief
for a property owner because of practical difficulties imposed upon the
property by this chapter. A VARIANCE shall normally be limited to height, bulk,
density and yard requirements. A modification in the allowable uses within a
district shall not be considered a VARIANCE. See §
153.026 of this code.
   VEHICLE REPAIR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines,
motor vehicles or trailers, including body work, framework, welding and major
painting services.
   VETERINARY. Those uses concerned with the diagnosis, treatment and medical
care of animals, including animal or pet hospitals.
   WAREHOUSING. The storage of materials or equipment within an enclosed
building as a principal use, including packing and crating.
   WATERFRONT USES, RESIDENTIAL. Boat docks and storage, fish house, fish
cleaning, water recreation equipment and other uses normally incidental to a
lakeshore residence provided the uses are for the exclusive use of the
occupants and nonpaying guests.
   WETLANDS. Those lands which are transitional between terrestrial and aquatic
systems where the water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is
covered by shallow water. A WETLAND has one or more of the following
attributes:
      (1)   At least periodically, the land supports predominantly wetland
vegetation. Wetland vegetation is listed in the National List of Plant Species
that Occur in Wetlands: North Central (Region 3), Fish and Wildlife Service,
May, 1988, or later revisions;
      (2)   The substrata is predominantly undrained hydric soil. Hydric soils
are those which have been exposed to water for long enough periods of time to
experience oxygen depletion. Hydric soils are listed in Hydric Soils in the
United States, Soil Conservation Service, October, 1985, or later revisions;
and/or
      (3)   Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.
   WETLANDS IN THIS CITY. Identified in the city’s Water Resources Inventory,
County Soil and Water Conservation District, January 1983, or later revisions.
   WHOLESALING. The selling of goods, equipment and materials by bulk to
another business that in turn sells to the final customer.
   YARD. The open space on an occupied lot which is not covered by any
structure.
   YARD, DEPTH OF REAR YARD. The horizontal distance between the rear building
line and the rear lot line.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the inner
side yard lines and lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest
line of the building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
   YARD, REQUIRED. A yard area which may not be built on or covered by
structures because of the dimensional setbacks for the structures within the
zoning district.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the side lines of the lot and the nearest
building line.
   ZONING DISTRICT OR DISTRICT. An area or areas within the city in which the
regulations and requirements of this chapter are uniform.
(Prior Code, § 12-55) (Res. 1997-5, passed 2-11-1997; Res. 1997-16, passed 6-
17-1997; Ord. 1997-19, passed 7-15-1997; Ord. 5-2005, passed 4-19-2005; Ord. 8-
2005, passed 5-17-2005; Ord. 02-2008, passed 1-9-2008; Ord. 02-2011, passed 7-
19-2011; Ord. 05-2013, passed 3-19-2013; Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017; Ord.
01-2018, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 04-2021, passed 7-20-2021; Ord. 07-2021, passed
8-17-2021; Ord. 08-2021, passed 10-19-2021; Ord. 02-2022, passed 6-21-2022;
Ord. 03-2022, passed 11- 15-2022; Ord. 02-2023, passed 3-21-2023; Ord. 11-2023,
passed 10-17-2023; Ord. 09-2024, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 153.006 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application generally. Except as hereinafter provided, no building or
structure shall be erected, moved, altered or extended and no land, building or
structure or part thereof, shall be occupied or used unless in conformity with
regulations specified in this chapter for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Application to existing structures. This chapter shall not apply to
existing buildings and structures, nor to the existing use of any building,
structure or land to the extent of the use on the effective date of the
ordinance from which this chapter was derived. However, this chapter shall
apply to any change in use, alteration, extension or movement of a building or
structure, and to any change in the use of land subsequent to the effective
date of the ordinance from which this chapter was derived.
   (C)   Use definitions. For the purpose of this section, the word USE shall
mean:
      (1)   Any purpose for which a building or structure or a tract of land
may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained or occupied; or
      (2)   Any activity, occupation, business or operation carried on, or
intended to be carried on, in a building or other structure, or on a tract of
land.
   (D)   Interpretation and application. In their interpretation and
application, the provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals and
welfare.
   (E)   Conditions. Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this
chapter are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
conditions imposed by any other law, ordinance, statute, resolution or
regulation of any kind, the regulations which are most restrictive or which
impose higher standards or requirements shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 12-56)
§ 153.007 NONCONFORMING USES, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Preservation of nonconforming uses. Except as hereinafter provided in
this section, the lawful use of land or the lawful use of a building or
structure existing on the effective date of the ordinance from which this
chapter was derived or on the effective date of any amendment thereto may be
continued although the use does not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice of nonconforming use.
      (1)   All nonconforming uses shall be issued a notice of nonconforming
use by the Zoning Administrator. The notice shall state the reason why the use
is nonconforming, the property address and legal description of the use, and a
description of the use as it existed on the effective date of the ordinance
from which this chapter was derived including, but not limited to, the
following: Type of business or activity; seating capacity; parking facilities;
size of structure; and any other regulation in this chapter that affects the
use.
      (2)   The notice shall be recorded at the County Recorder’s office.
Failure by the Zoning Administrator to issue a notice shall not legitimatize a
nonconforming use. When a nonconforming use becomes less nonconforming, a new
notice shall be issued and recorded as described above.
      (3)   No extension, enlargement or intensification of, or change in, a
nonconforming use other than described in the notice shall be permitted, except
that any nonconforming use may change to a conforming use.
   (C)   Preservation, alteration or improvement of substandard buildings or
structures. Except as hereinafter provided in this section, buildings or
structures lawfully existing on the effective date of the ordinance from which
this code was derived or on the effective date of any amendment hereto may be
maintained although the building or structure does not conform to the
dimensional standards of this chapter, but any building or structure shall not
be altered or improved beyond normal maintenance as determine by the Zoning
Administrator unless it meets the requirements of §
153.007 of this code.
   (D)   Exceptions to setback standards for substandard structures. An
extension, enlargement or alteration of a structure may be permitted by
administrative permit if the structure does not meet the minimum setback
requirements of this chapter, provided:
      (1)   The structure involved is the principal structure;
      (2)   The structure was built prior to September 18, 1975;
      (3)   The existing setback of the structure is within 60% of the current
minimum required setback;
      (4)   The proposed improvement to the structure is on the side of the
structure opposite from the substandard setback, or the improvement is extended
laterally or parallel with the substandard setback;
      (5)   The proposed improvement shall not encroach farther into the
substandard setback than does the structure; and
      (6)   The proposed improvement shall be in compliance with all other
requirements and dimensional standards of this chapter.
   (E)   Unlawful uses, buildings and structures. No unlawful use of property
existing on the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter was
derived or any amendment thereto nor any building or structure which is
unlawfully existing on the date shall be deemed a nonconforming use or a
nonconforming building or structure.
   (F)   Permit holders and permit applicants. Any nonconforming structure that
is ready for or under construction on the effective date of the ordinance from
which this chapter was derived or any amendment thereto may be completed and
occupied in accordance with the requirements of any valid building permit
issued therefore prior to the effective date.
   (G)   Change of a nonconforming use.
      (1)   Change from one nonconforming use to another. A nonconforming use
may be changed only to a use permitted in the district in which it is located;
except that if the original use has ceased to be in use for less than one year,
a building may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or a more
restrictive classification, provided the change is approved by the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals as hereinafter provided. Any alterations made to the
building to make the change in nonconforming use possible must be reviewed and
approved in conjunction with the approval of the changed nonconforming use.
Once changed to a conforming use, no building or land shall be permitted to
revert to the original nonconforming use.
      (2)   Change of use with approval of the Board of Adjustment. A
nonconforming use, all or partially conducted in a building or buildings, may
be changed to another nonconforming use only upon determination by the Board of
Adjustment, after a public hearing, that the proposed new use shall be no more
detrimental to its neighborhood and surroundings than is the use it is to
replace. In determining relative detriment, the Board of Adjustment shall take
into consideration, among other things: Traffic generated; nuisance
characteristics, such as emission of noise, dust and smoke; fire hazards; and
hours and manners of operation.
   (H)   Restoration of nonconforming uses or substandard structures or
buildings. A substandard building or structure which is damaged or destroyed by
fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other calamity may be restored and the
occupancy, use or nonconforming use of the building or structure, or part
thereof, which existed at the time of partial destruction, may be continued or
resumed, provided that the restoration is started within a period of one year
and is diligently pursued to completion, unless the damage to the building or
structure is equal to 50% or more of the current assessed market value
according to the City Assessor, in which case the reconstruction of the
building or structure and the restoration of the use shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Abandonment of use. When any nonconforming use of land or of a
building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of one year, the
land, building or structure shall, thereafter, be used only as provided by this
chapter.
   (J)   Exceptions to slope requirements for substandard structures. An
extension, enlargement or iteration of a structure may be permitted by
administrative permit if the structure is located on a slope in excess of 18%
provided:
      (1)   The structure involved is a principal residential dwelling unit;
      (2)   The structure was built prior to September 18, 1975;
      (3)   Soils on the land shall support the extension, enlargement or
alternation without significant risk of erosion or damage to structure
thereafter construction;
      (4)   All structures, including the extension, enlargement or alteration
are set back at least 40 feet from the crest of the 18% slope;
      (5)   No more than 50 cubic yards of soil shall be graded and the
development shall not damage heavily wooded areas of other significant
features;
      (6)   Erosion control methods are utilized both during and after
construction, as recommended by the county’s Soil and Water Conservation
District;
      (7)   Applicant must demonstrate that a conforming sewage treatment
system is present, pursuant to
Ch. 154 of this code; and
      (8)   The proposed improvement shall be in compliance with all other
requirements and dimensional standards of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-57) (Ord. 1997-25, passed 8-17-1999; Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-
21-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.008 INTERPRETATION OF CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If conflicting or multiple provisions regarding the same subject matter are
found in this chapter, the more specific or restrictive provision shall apply.
The Zoning Administrator shall rule on which provision is more specific or
restrictive and appeals from the decisions may be made in the manner provided
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-58)
§ 153.009 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application to city personnel. The failure of any officer or employee
of the city to perform any official duty shall not subject the officer or
employee to personal liability for failure unless the liability is specifically
provided for by law.
   (B)   Equitable remedies. Upon a violation or the threatened violation of
any provision of this chapter or any provision or condition of a permit issued
pursuant to this chapter, the city in addition to other remedies, may institute
appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate the
violation or threatened violation.
   (C)   Mandamus proceedings. Any taxpayer of the city may institute mandamus
proceedings in district court to compel specific performance by the proper
official or officials of any duty required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-59) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.010 SUPREMACY.
   When any condition imposed by any provision of this chapter on the use of
land or buildings or on the bulk of buildings is either more restrictive or
less restrictive than similar conditions imposed by any provision of any other
city ordinance or regulation, or statute or law in effect in the city, the more
restrictive condition shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 12-60)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.025 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
as provided herein.
   (B)   In addition to the duties and powers of the Zoning Administrator under
this chapter, express or implied, he or she shall have the duty and power to:
      (1)   Issue permits required by this chapter;
      (2)   Conduct inspections of land, buildings or structures at reasonable
times, to determine compliance with and enforce the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Maintain all records necessary for the enforcement of this chapter,
including, but not limited to all maps, amendments and conditional use permits,
variances, appeal notices and applications therefor;
      (4)   Receive, file and forward all appeals, notices, applications for
variances, conditional use permits or other matters to the appropriate
officials or boards; and
      (5)   Institute in the name of the city, any appropriate actions or
proceedings to enforce this chapter.
       When       Property    Application Appeal        Public
Action Applicable Owner Shall Approved or Considered By Hearing  Reference
                  Apply To    Denied By                 Required
               When         Property Owner Application    Appeal     Public
Action         Applicable   Shall Apply To Approved or    Considered Hearing  Reference
                                           Denied By      By         Required
               Ensure                      Review and
               compliance                  recommendation
Administrative with more    Zoning         by Planning                        §
permit         unusual uses Administrator  Commission;    Court      No       153.028
               or zoning                   final approval
               requirements                by City
                                           Council
               Petition of                 Review and
               property                    recommendation
Amendment of   owner or                    by Planning
zoning         initiative   City           Commission;    Court      Yes      §
ordinance      of Planning  Administrator  final approval                     153.029
               Commission                  by City
               or City                     Council
               Council
Building       Any proposed Building       Building
permits        construction Official       Official or    Court      No       Building Code
                                           inspector
               Certifies
               building or  Building
               structure    Official       Building
Certificate of meets        (issued upon   Official and   Court      No       §
occupancy      current      completion of  Zoning                             153.035
               codes and    structure)     Administrator
               can be
               occupied
               May allow                   Review and
               for uses not                recommendation
Conditional    normally     Zoning         by Planning                        §
use permit     permitted in Administrator  Commission;    Court      No       153.027
               a specific                  final approval
               zoning                      by City
               district                    Council
               Prior to
Driveway       application  Zoning         Zoning         Court      No       §
permit         for building Administrator  Administrator                      153.033
               permit
               Moving 50
               cubic yards
               or more of
Land           materials                                                      §§
reclamation    and/or       Zoning         Zoning         Court      No       153.101,
and land       disturbance  Administrator  Administrator                      153.102
grading        of 1,000
               square feet
               or more of
               land per lot
Moving permit  Relocating a Zoning         City           Court      No       §
               structure    Administrator  Administrator                      153.031
               Prior to
               application
Septic permit  for driveway Building       Building       Court      No       Ch. 154
               permit and   Official       Official
               building
               permit
               Erection of  Zoning         See §                    Option   §
Sign permit    any sign     Administrator  153.130        Court      of City  153.130
                                                                     Council
                                           Review and
                                           recommendation
               Creating new City           by Planning                        Ch. 160 and §
Subdivision    lots         Administrator  Commission;    Court      Yes      153.050
                                           final approval
                                           by City
                                           Council
               See Lower
               St. Croix
               River
Tree or        Bluffland
vegetative     and          Zoning         Zoning         Court      No       Ch. 157
cutting permit Shoreland    Administration Administrator
               Management
               Ordinance,
               Ch. 157 of
               this code
                                           Review and
               Difficulties                recommendation
               with                        by Planning
Variance       dimensional  Zoning         Commission;    Court      Yes      §
               provisions   Administrator  approval by                        153.026
               of zoning                   Board of
               ordinance                   Adjustment and
                                           Appeals
               Petition of
               property                    Review and
Zoning         owner or                    recommendation
ordinance      initiative   City           by Planning    Court      Yes      §
amendment      of Planning  Administrator  Commission;                        153.029
               Commission                  final approval
               or City                     by city
               Council
*Fees are established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, see §
153.036 of this code
 
(Prior Code, § 12-76) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 8-2005, passed 5-
17-2005; Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 01-2014, passed 5-20-2014)
§ 153.026 APPEALS AND VARIANCES; BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Board of Appeals and Adjustments hearings.
      (1)   Appeals to the Board of Appeals and Adjustments may be taken by any
affected person upon compliance with any reasonable conditions imposed by this
chapter. The Board of Appeals and Adjustments has the following powers with
respect to this chapter:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an
error in any order, requirement decision or determination made by an
administrative officer in the enforcement of this chapter; and
         (b)   To hear requests for variances from the literal provisions of
the ordinances in instances where their strict enforcement would cause
practical difficulties because of circumstances unique to the individual
property under consideration and to grant variances only when they are in
harmony with the general purposes and intent of the ordinance and when the
terms of the variance are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan. Practical
difficulties, as used in connection with the granting of a variance, includes a
three-factor test, all three of which must be met in order for a variance to be
granted.
            1.   The property owner proposes to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by this chapter.
            2.   The plight of the landowners is due to circumstances unique to
the property not created by the landowner.
            3.   The variance, if granted, shall not alter the essential
character of the locality.
      (2)   Economic considerations alone shall not constitute practical
difficulties if reasonable use for the property exists under the terms of the
ordinance. Practical difficulties also includes, but is not limited to,
inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals may not permit as a variance
any use that is not permitted under the provisions for property in the zone
where the affected person’s land is located. Variances shall be granted for
earth sheltered construction as defined in M.S. § 216C.06, subdivision 14, as
it may be amended from time to time, when in harmony with these provisions.
      (4)   The Board may impose conditions in the granting of variances to
ensure compliance and to protect adjacent properties. A condition must be
directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality to the impact created
by the variance.
   (B)   Composition. The City Council shall serve as the Board of Adjustments
and Appeals. Any question of whether a particular Board member shall be
disqualified from voting upon an issue shall be determined by a majority vote
of all members, except the member who is being challenged.
   (C)   Appeals. An appeal from any order, requirement, decision or
determination of any administrative official may be initiated by any person
affected thereby, or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city,
county or state within 30 days from the date of any order, requirement,
decision or determination by filing with the Zoning Administrator a written
notice of appeal.
      (1)   The notice of appeal shall state:
         (a)   The particular order, requirement, decision or determination
from which the appeal is taken;
         (b)   The name and address of the appellant;
         (c)   The grounds for the appeal; and
         (d)   The relief requested by the appellant.
      (2)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Board of Adjustment and Appeals, to whom the appeal is
taken certifies that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate, a stay
would cause imminent peril to life or property.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly
or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from and to that extent shall have all the powers of the officer from
whom the appeal was taken, and may direct the issuance of a permit.
   (D)   Variances.
      (1)   Application for a variance shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator. The application shall be accompanied by development plans for
the proposed use showing the information as may be reasonably required by the
Administrator, including but not limited to those items listed below. The plans
shall contain sufficient information for the city to determine whether the
proposed development shall meet all applicable development standard:
         (a)   Name and mailing address of the applicant;
         (b)   The legal property description of the land involved in the
request, including the street address, if any, of the property;
         (c)   The names and mailing addresses of the owners of the property
and any other persons having a legal interest therein;
         (d)   Site plan drawn to scale, dimensions indicated, including
proposed structure, house, existing accessory buildings, well, septic system
(tank and drainfield), adjacent public streets, driveway, lot size and lot
dimensions:
            1.   Distance between existing structures, proposed structures,
well and septic system;
            2.   Setbacks of existing and proposed structures from lot lines,
non-buildable easements, public street right-of-way line or centerline,
shoreline, bluffline or crest of slope 18% or steeper; and
            3.   Possible location of any and all detached accessory buildings
permitted by this chapter for the property for which the application is being
made.
         (e)   Landscaping and screening plans including species and size of
trees and shrubs proposed;
         (f)   Finished grading and drainage plans sufficient to drain the
developed portion of the site and to retain as much run-off on the site as
possible;
         (g)   Type of business or activity and proposed number of employees or
occupants;
         (h)   Proposed floor plan and elevations of all buildings with the use
indicated;
         (i)   Soil type and soil limitations for the intended use: A plan or
statement indicating the soil conservation practice or practices to be used to
overcome any soil limitation shall be made part of the application;
         (j)   A location map showing the parcel’s general location within the
city;
         (k)   Proof of ownership of the property for which the application is
submitted, consisting of an abstract of title or registered property
certificate certified by a licensed abstractor, or a title opinion prepared by
an attorney licensed to practice in the state, together with any unrecorded
documents whereby the petitioners acquired legal or equitable ownership;
         (l)   An accurate list showing the names and mailing addresses of the
record owners of all property located within 500 feet of the property owned by
the applicant; and
         (m)   A complete description of the request for variance including a
description of the unique conditions and practical difficulties that make a
variance necessary, the sections of the city code from which a variance is
requested and the reasons for the variance request.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may impose conditions in the
granting of a variance which the Board may reasonably determine to be necessary
to protect the adjacent properties, preserve the public health, safety and
welfare, and comply with the intent and purposes of this chapter and with the
Comprehensive Plan. The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may also impose the
conditions and requirements as are necessary to ensure compliance with the
terms of the variance.
   (E)   Hearing procedure.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall, upon the filing of a notice of
appeal or an application for a variance, refer the matter to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals and the Planning Commission and establish a time for the
hearing thereof by the Board and Commission no less than 15 days after the
filing of the notice or application and no more than 45 days after the filing
thereof. On variance applications, the Planning Commission shall hold at least
one public hearing, affording an opportunity for all parties interested to be
heard, and shall give no less than ten days’ nor more than 30 days’ notice of
the time and place of the hearing, published in the designated legal newspaper
for the city.
      (2)   The notice shall also contain a description of the land and the
requested variance. At least ten days before the hearing, the Zoning
Administrator shall mail an identical notice to the owner and to each of the
property owners of record for property within 500 feet of the outside
boundaries of the land in question. The Planning Commission shall review all
requests for variances prior to final action by the Board; a recommendation may
be made to the Board for approval, denial or approval with conditions deemed to
be in the public interest. The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall decide any
appeal or any application for a variance and issue its order with respect
thereto within 30 days from the date of the hearing thereon.
   (F)   Findings of the Board. The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall make
written findings in any case of an appeal or application for a variance and
shall state therein the reasons for its decision.
      (1)   In addition to meeting the criteria set forth in §
153.026 of this code, the following criteria must be met before a variance may
be granted.
         (a)   The variance, if granted, shall not have a significant adverse
effect on the public health, safety, welfare or environment.
         (b)   The granting of the variance requested shall not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to owners of
other land, structures or buildings in the same district.
         (c)   Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances apply to the property
which does not apply generally to other properties in the same zoning district
or vicinity, and result from lot size or shape, topography or other
circumstances over which the owners of the property have had no control.
         (d)   The literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the rights commonly enjoyed by other property in
the same district under the terms of this chapter.
         (e)   The variance requested is the minimum variance that would
alleviate the practical difficulty.
      (2)   The order issued by the Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall
include the legal description of the land involved. Any order shall be filed
with the Zoning Administrator who shall immediately mail a copy thereof,
bearing the notation of the filing date, to the appellant or applicant.
         (a)   A certified copy of any order issued by the Board of Adjustments
and Appeals acting upon any appeal from an order, requirement, decision or
determination of an administrative officer or upon any application for a
variance, shall be filed with the County Recorder.
         (b)   The filing shall be made by the Zoning Administrator or other
agent designated by the Board as soon as is reasonably possible after the
filing of the order with the Zoning Administrator.
         (c)   The cost of filing with the County Recorder shall be borne by
the appellant or applicant.
   (G)   Finality of decision. All decisions of the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals acting upon an appeal from an order, requirement, decision or
determination by an administrative officer or upon an application for a
variance shall be final except that any aggrieved person may have any decision
or order of the Board reviewed by an appropriate remedy in district court as
provided by law.
   (H)   Time limit for implementing a variance. A variance must be implemented
within one year from the date the variance was approved. “Implementing a
variance” means that a grading permit (if needed) has been approved, site work
has been completed, a building permit has been issued, construction activities
have begun and substantial progress has been made toward completion of the
project, as determined and verified in writing by the Building Inspector and
Zoning Administrator. The implementation time limit may be extended
administratively one time, for a period not to exceed one-year, if sufficient
progress toward implementation is demonstrated, as determined and verified in
writing by the Building Inspector and Zoning Administrator, and if a
construction plan and timeline have been provided. In addition, the
implementation time limit may be extended one time by the City Council, for a
period not to exceed one year, if the need is demonstrated and a clear plan for
completion is provided. For complex projects, a time limit for implementing a
variance may be established that exceeds two years at the time of the variance
approval, if the extended time limit is requested as part of the variance
application and is based on a construction timetable that exceeds two years. If
an implementation time limit beyond two years is approved, annual monitoring of
progress is required. Any variance not implemented within one year of the date
of approval, or within an approved extension is considered to be expired and
must be reapplied for and is subject to any amendment to this chapter and any
new conditions the Council to ensure compliance with the terms of the variance.
   (I)   Variances to impervious coverage in VHS-C and VHS-R Districts.
      (1)   Based on the findings listed below, the city has determined that a
variance to exceed 20% impervious surface as required per the Department of
Natural Resources Lower St. Croix River Bluffland and Shoreland District is
acceptable in the VHS-C and VHS-R Districts subject to meeting the requirements
of §
153.051 of this code, including the review and comment of the Department of
Natural Resources.
         (a)   The properties in the VHS-C and VHS-R Districts are constrained
in lot size.
         (b)   A precedent has been set that a maximum of 20% impervious
coverage prohibits reasonable use within the district.
         (c)   The conditions of §
153.051 of this code allow for adequate review and improved protection from
erosion concerns, groundwater contamination and surface water discharge.
         (d)   The city is required to adhere to and enforce the Lower St.
Croix River Bluffland and Shoreland regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-77) (Ord. 1997-10, passed 5-19-1998; Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-
21-2009; Ord. 2004-17, passed 12-21-2004; Ord. 02-2014, passed 5-20-2014; Ord.
01-2022, passed 5-17-2022) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.027 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a conditional use permit is to provide the
city with a reasonable degree of discretion in determining the suitability of
certain designated uses upon the general welfare, public health and safety. In
making this determination, whether or not the conditional use is to be allowed,
the city may consider the nature of the adjoining land or buildings, the effect
upon traffic into and from the premises or on any adjoining roads, and all
other factors the city shall deem a prerequisite of consideration in
determining the effect of the general welfare, public health and safety.
Conditional use permits may be granted in accordance with this subdivision for
any use or purpose listed as a conditional use for the zoning districts per §
153.053 of this code.
   (B)   Application. Requests for conditional use permits, as provided within
this chapter, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on an official
application form. The application shall be accompanied by a deposit and fee per
the city’s current fee schedule. The application shall also include development
plans for the proposed use showing information as may be reasonably required by
the Administrator, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Name and mailing address of the applicant;
      (2)   The legal property description of the land involved in the request,
including the street address, if any, of the property;
      (3)   The names and mailing addresses of the owners of the property and
any other persons having a legal interest therein;
      (4)   Site plan drawn to scale, dimensions indicated, including: proposed
structure, house, existing accessory buildings, well, septic system (tank and
drainfield), adjacent public streets, driveway, lot size and lot dimensions:
         (a)   Distance between existing structures, proposed structures, well
and septic system;
         (b)   Setbacks of existing and proposed structures from: Lot lines,
non-buildable easements, public street right-of-way line or centerline,
shoreland, bluffline or crest of slope 18% or steeper; and
         (c)   Possible location of any and all detached accessory buildings
permitted by this chapter for the property for which the application is being
made.
      (5)   Landscaping and screening plans including species and size of trees
and shrubs proposed;
      (6)   Finished grading and drainage plans sufficient to drain the
developed portion of the site and to retain as much run-off on the site as
possible;
      (7)   Type of business or activity and proposed number of employees or
occupants;
      (8)   Proposed floor plan and elevations of all buildings with use
indicated;
      (9)   Photometric lighting plan;
      (10)   Soil type and soil limitations for the intended use: A plan or
statement indication the soil conservation practice or practices to be used to
overcome any soil limitation shall be made part of the application;
      (11)   A location map showing the parcels general location within the
city;
      (12)   Proof of ownership of the property for which the application is
submitted, consisting of an abstract of title or registered property
certificate certified by a licensed abstractor, or a title opinion prepared by
an attorney licensed to practice in the state, together with any unrecorded
documents whereby the petitioners acquired legal or equitable ownership; and
      (13)   An accurate list showing the names and mailing addresses of the
recorded owner of all property within a minimum of 500 feet of the boundaries
of the property for which the application is submitted, the accuracy of which
is verified by the applicant.
   (C)   Staff review/technical procedure reports. Upon receipt of an
application for a conditional use permit, the Zoning Administrator shall refer
the request to appropriate staff to ensure that informational requirements are
complied with. When all informational requirements have been complied with, the
request shall be considered officially submitted. The Zoning Administrator
shall instruct the appropriate staff persons to prepare technical reports and/
or provide general assistance in preparing a recommendation on the request to
the Planning Commission and City Council.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon official submission of the request, the Zoning
Administrator shall set a public hearing on the request for the next regularly
scheduled Planning Commission meeting occurring at least ten working days from
the date as a notice of the hearing is published in the official newspaper. The
notice shall contain a legal property description and description of the
request, and shall be published no more than 30 days and no less than ten days
prior to the hearing. Written notification of the hearing shall also be mailed
at least ten working days prior to the date of the hearing to all owners of
land within 500 feet of the boundary of the property in question. Failure of
the property owner to receive the notice shall not invalidate any proceedings
as set forth within this chapter.
   (E)   Planning Commission action. The Planning Commission shall conduct the
public hearing at which time the applicant or a representative thereof shall
appear to answer questions concerning the proposed request.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consider possible adverse effects of
the proposed conditional use permit. Its judgment shall be based upon (but not
limited to) the following factors:
         (a)   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the
specific policies and provision of and has been found to be consistent with the
official city Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   The proposed use is or shall be compatible with present and
future land uses of the surrounding area;
         (c)   The proposed use shall not seriously depreciate surrounding
property values or scenic views; and
         (d)   The proposed use conforms with all performance standards
contained herein.
      (2)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors, the information to be declared
necessary to establish performance conditions in relations to all pertinent
sections of this code.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation for either
denial or approval with conditions as they deem necessary to carry out the
intent and purpose of this chapter. The recommendation shall be in writing and
accompanied by any report and recommendation of the city staff. The written
recommendation of the Planning Commission shall be forwarded to the Zoning
Administrator for referral to the City Council.
   (F)   Referral to City Council. Upon receipt of the Planning Commission
report and recommendation, or within 60 days of receipt of a complete
application, unless the review period of the application is extended pursuant
to M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time, the Zoning
Administrator shall place the request and any report and recommendation on the
agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council.
   (G)   City Council action. Upon receiving the request and any report and
recommendation of the Planning Commission and the city staff, the City Council
shall have the option to set and hold a public hearing if deemed necessary and
shall make a recorded finding of fact.
      (1)   Approval of a proposed conditional use permit shall require passage
by a majority vote of all members of the City Council.
      (2)   In the case of a conditional use permit, the City Council may
impose any condition it considers necessary to protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
      (3)   A certified copy of any conditional use permit issued by the City
Council shall be filed with the County Recorder. The filing shall be made by
the Zoning Administrator or other agent designated by the City Council as soon
as is reasonably possible after the filing of the conditional use permit with
the Zoning Administrator. The cost of the filing with the County Recorder shall
be borne by the applicant.
      (4)   Whenever an application for a conditional use permit has been
considered and denied by the City Council, a similar application for the
conditional use permit affecting the same property shall not be considered
again by the Planning Commission or City Council for at least six months from
the date of its denial, unless a decision to reconsider the matter is made by
not less than a majority vote of the full City Council.
   (H)   Performance bond.
      (1)   Except in the case of a non-income producing residential property,
upon approval of a conditional use permit the city shall be provided with a
surety bond, cash escrow, certificate of deposit, securities or cash deposit
prior to the issuing of building permits or initiation of work on the proposed
improvements or development. The security shall be non-cancelable and shall
guarantee conformance and compliance with the conditions of the conditional use
permit and the ordinances of the city.
      (2)   The security shall be in the amount of 125% of the total cost of
the site improvements to be installed by the applicant pursuant to the
conditional use permit.
      (3)   The city shall hold the security until completion of the proposed
improvements or development and a certificate of occupancy indicating
compliance with the conditional use permit and ordinances of the city has been
issued by the Building Official.
      (4)   Failure to comply with the conditional use permit or the ordinances
of the city shall result in forfeiture of the security.
   (I)   Conditional use permit amendments. Any change involving structural
alteration, enlargement, intensification of use or similar change not
specifically permitted by the conditional use permit issued shall require an
amended conditional use permit and shall procedures shall apply as if a new
permit where being issues. An amended conditional use permit application and
requests for changes in conditions shall be administered in a manner similar to
that required for a conditional use permit.
   (J)   Revocation. If an approved conditional use permit is in violation of
this chapter or the conditions of permit approval, the city may initiate a
process to revoke the conditional use permit. The city shall then conduct a
public hearing to consider the revocation of a conditional use permit. The
public hearing shall be conducted by the Planning Commission, which shall make
a recommendation to the City Council. In considering revocation, the Planning
Commission and the City Council shall consider compliance with the approved
conditions of the conditional use permit and the standards listed in division
(E) above.
(Prior Code, § 12-78) (Ord. 2004-16, passed 12-21-2004; Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-
21-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.028 ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations and
procedures for the processing and consideration of activities allowed by
administrative permit, and of matter requiring the approvals of the Zoning
Administrator with the goal of protecting the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city.
   (B)   Application. Requests for administrative permits, as provided within
this chapter, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on an official
application form. The application shall be accompanied by a deposit and fee per
the city’s current fee schedule. The application shall also include the
information required below, however, the Zoning Administrator may waive
submission information not deemed necessary for the administrative review:
      (1)   Name and mailing address of the applicant;
      (2)   The legal property description of the land involved in the request,
including the street address, if any, of the property;
      (3)   The names and mailing addresses of the owners of the property and
any other persons having a legal interest therein;
      (4)   Site plan drawn to scale, dimensions indicated, including proposed
structure, house, existing accessory buildings, well, septic system (tank and
drainfield), adjacent public streets, driveway, location of existing and
proposed utility lines, lot size and lot dimensions:
         (a)   Distance between existing structures, proposed structures, well
and septic system;
         (b)   Setbacks of existing and proposed structures from lot lines,
non-buildable easements, public street right-of-way line or centerline,
shoreline, bluffline or crest of slope 18% or steeper; and
         (c)   Possible location of any and all detached accessory buildings
permitted by this chapter for the property for which the application is being
made.
      (5)   Landscaping and screening plans including species and size of trees
and shrubs proposed;
      (6)   Finished grading and drainage plans sufficient to drain the
developed portion of the site and to retain as much run-off on the site as
possible;
      (7)   Type of business or activity and proposed number of employees or
occupants;
      (8)   Proposed floor plan and elevations of all buildings with use
indicated;
      (9)   Photometric lighting plan;
      (10)   Soil type and soil limitations for the intended use: A plan or
statement indicating the soil conservation practice or practices to be used to
overcome any soil limitation shall be made part of the application;
      (11)   A location map showing the parcel’s general location within the
city;
      (12)   Proof of ownership of the property for which the application is
submitted, consisting of an abstract of title or registered property
certificate certified by a licensed abstractor, or a title opinion prepared by
an attorney licensed to practice in the state, together with any unrecorded
documents whereby the petitioners acquired legal or equitable ownership; and
      (13)   An accurate list showing the names and mailing addresses of the
recorded owner of all property within a minimum of 500 feet of the boundaries
of the property for which the application is submitted, the accuracy if which
is verified by the applicant.
   (C)   Administrative action. The Zoning Administrator shall make a
determination on approval or denial of the administrative permit within 60 days
from the date of submission of a complete application unless the review is
extended as allowed by M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Review criteria. The Zoning Administrator shall consider possible
adverse effects of the proposed administrative permit. This decision shall be
based upon (but not limited to) the following factors.
      (1)   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the specific
policies and provisions of and has been found to be consistent with the city’s
Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   The proposed use is or shall be compatible with present and future
land uses of the area.
      (3)   The proposed use conforms with all performance standards contained
herein.
      (4)   The use, event or activity is allowed by administrative permit and
conforms to the applicable standards outlined in the zoning district in which
the use, event or activity is proposed.
   (E)   Approval report. A written report or letter of approval shall be
issued to the applicant when a determination of compliance has been made.
Specific conditions to assure compliance with applicable evaluation criteria,
codes, ordinances and the standards of this chapter shall be attached to the
permit or letter.
   (F)   Non-compliance. Determination of non-compliance with applicable codes,
ordinances and the standards in this chapter shall be communicated to the
applicant in writing and the application of the permit shall be considered
denied; unless, within ten days of the date of the notice, the applicant
submits revised plans and/or information with which the Zoning Administrator is
able to determine compliance.
   (G)   Disputes. Unresolved disputes as to administrative application of the
requirements of this chapter shall be subject to appeal to the City Council.
   (H)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of applications and
administrative permits or approvals.
      (2)   A copy of all administrative permits issued shall be forwarded to
appropriate staff as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   (a)   Enforcement of the provisions of this chapter shall be in
accordance with §
153.009 of this code.
         (b)   Violation of an issued permit or of the provisions of this
section also shall be grounds for denial of future permit applications.
(Prior Code, § 12-79) (Ord. 2004-16, passed 12-21-2004; Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-
21-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.029 AMENDMENTS AND REZONINGS.
   (A)   Initiation. An amendment to this chapter may be initiated by the City
Council, the Planning Commission or by petition of affected property owners as
defined herein. An amendment not initiated by the Planning Commission shall be
referred to the Planning Commission for study and report, as hereinafter
provided, and may not be acted upon by the Council until it has received the
recommendation of the Planning Commission on the proposed amendment or until 60
days have elapsed from the date of reference of the amendment without a report
by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Records. The City Administrator shall maintain a record of all
applications for amendments to this chapter.
   (C)   Application. Where an amendment to this chapter is proposed by a
property owner, an application therefor shall be filed with the City
Administrator; the application shall be accompanied by development plans, if
any, for the use which requires the rezoning.
      (1)   The plans shall contain sufficient information for the city to
determine whether the proposed development is in keeping with the intent and
purpose of this chapter and the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   The development plans shall show the information as may be
reasonably required by the Administrator, including but not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Site plan drawn to scale showing the parcel, building dimensions
and topography;
         (b)   Location of all buildings and their sizes;
         (c)   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces, off-street
loading areas and sidewalks;
         (d)   Landscaping and screening plans including species and size of
trees and shrubs proposed;
         (e)   Finished grading and drainage plan sufficient to drain the
developed portion of the site and to retain as much run-off on the site as
possible;
         (f)   Type of business or activity and proposed number of employees or
occupants;
         (g)   Proposed floor plan and elevations of all buildings with the use
indicated;
         (h)   Location of on-site sewage treatment system and well with the
estimated flow rates;
         (i)   Soil type and soil limitations for the intended use: A plan or
statement indicating the soil conservation practice or practice to be used to
overcome any soil limitation shall be made part of the application;
         (j)   A location map showing the parcel’s general location within the
city;
         (k)   A map showing all principal land use within 500 feet of the
parcel for which the application is being made;
         (l)   Proof of ownership of the property for which the amendment or
rezoning is requested, consisting of an abstract of title or registered
property certificate certified by a licensed abstractor, or a title opinion
prepared by an attorney licensed to practice in the state, together with any
unrecorded documents whereby the petitioners acquired legal or equitable
ownership; and
         (m)   An accurate list of the names and mailing addresses of the
record owners of all property within a minimum of 500 feet of the boundaries of
the property for which the amendment or rezoning is sought, verified as to
accuracy by the applicant.
   (D)   Hearing. The City Administrator shall refer the application to the
Planning Commission for consideration at its next regular meeting; provided
however, if the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission is within seven
days of the date of filing, then the consideration may be at the second regular
meeting after the filing.
      (1)   At that meeting, the Planning Commission shall set a date for a
public hearing on the application. The public hearing shall be not more than 60
days after the date of filing of the application with the City Administrator.
      (2)   Notice of the purpose, time and place of the public hearing shall
be published in the official newspaper of the city and mailed to each of the
owners of all property located within a minimum of 500 feet of the property
described in the application, and other persons as the Planning Commission may
direct at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
      (3)   A copy of the notice and a list of the owners and addresses to
which the notice was sent shall be attested to by the responsible person and
shall be made a part of the record of the proceedings. The failure to give
mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in notice shall not
invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to comply with the
provisions of this section has been made.
      (3)   The applicant or his or her representative shall appear at the
public hearing to answer questions concerning the proposal.
   (E)   Planning Commission report. The Planning Commission shall make its
report on the application to the Council, in writing, within 60 days after the
public hearing, unless the applicant consents to extended consideration by the
Planning Commission. The report shall recommend that the amendment or rezoning
be granted or denied and shall include the Planning Commission’s recommendation
as to any conditions to be imposed if the amendment or rezoning is granted,
including time limits or provisions for periodic review and shall state the
reasons therefor.
      (1)   The Planning Commission’s report shall be filed with the City
Administrator who shall refer the same to the Council for consideration at its
next regular meeting; provided however, if the next regular meeting of the
Council is within seven days of the date of filing, then the consideration may
be at the second regular meeting after the filing. At the same time, the City
Administrator shall mail to the applicant a copy of the Planning Commission’s
report and a notice of the time and place of the meeting at which the report
shall be considered by the Council.
      (2)   If the Planning Commission fails to file a report with the City
Administrator within the time provided by this section, the application shall
be referred to the Council as herein provided, without report, after the time
for filing the report has expired. Minutes of the public hearing and its
regular meeting may be used by the Planning Commission as its report.
   (F)   Council action on application. The Council shall make its decision on
the application within 60 days of the filing of the Planning Commission’s
report with the City Administrator or after the last day for filing same, if no
report is filed.
      (1)   The Council shall make written findings and shall state therein the
reasons for its decision. Any order shall be filed with the City Administrator
who shall immediately mail a copy thereof, bearing the notation of the filing
date, to the applicant.
      (2)   If the order directs amendment of this chapter, the City
Administrator shall refer the order to the City Attorney to prepare an
amendment of this chapter as provided by law.
      (3)   Any amendment must be approved by a two-thirds’ vote of the members
of the City Council.
   (G)   Reapplication. No reapplication for zoning amendment or rezoning shall
be resubmitted for a period of six months from the date of the denial of a
previous application.
   (H)   Zoning and the Comprehensive Plan. Any amendment to this chapter or
rezoning shall amend the Comprehensive Plan in accordance therewith. The
Planning Commission shall inform the Council of any zoning proposal which does
not conform to the Comprehensive Plan and inform the Council as to why the plan
shall or shall not be amended.
   (I)   Public hearing. Prior to approval of any rezoning or amendment of this
chapter that does not conform to the Comprehensive Plan, a public hearing shall
be conducted by the Planning Commission and the results noted in the minutes of
the official proceedings. The public hearing required for the rezoning or
amendment may also serve as the public hearing for an amendment to the
Comprehensive Plan.
   (J)   Agreement with Comprehensive Plan. In granting or recommending any
rezoning provided for in this chapter, the Planning Commission and Council
shall find that the proposed development conforms substantially to the
policies, goals and standards of the Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 12-80) (Res. 1997-18, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 97-45, passed 11-
13-2001; Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 153.030 BUILDING PERMITS AND THE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   No structure shall hereinafter be erected or structurally altered
until a building permit shall have been issued, indicating that the existing or
proposed structure and the use of the land comply with this chapter and all
Building Codes.
   (B)   No building permit shall be required for normal maintenance such as
painting and other similar improvements, which do not involve structural
changes to the building, with the exception of the installation of siding,
windows and doors for which the International Residential Code (IRC) requires a
building permit.
   (C)   No site preparation work, including rough grading, driveway
construction, footing excavation, tree removal or other physical changes to the
site shall occur prior to the issuance of a building permit and any zoning
permits as required by this chapter.
   (D)   Applications for permits as required by this section shall be made to
the Building Official. The Building Official shall maintain a record of all
applications for and all permits issued under this section.
   (E)   Application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a site plan
drawn to scale showing the dimensions of the lot to be built upon; the size and
location of the building, utilities including on-site septic systems and
accessory buildings to be erected; the vegetation and major topographic
changes; drawings of the improvement in sufficient detail to allow checking
against the Building Code; and other information as the Building Official may
reasonably require to determine compliance with this chapter and the Building
Code. The Building Official may require a certificate of survey before a
building permit will be issued.
   (F)   No building permit shall be issued for any improvement which would
result in a use, building or structure violation of this chapter, or
Ch. 150,
154,
156,
157,
159,
160,
161 and
162 of this code or other city ordinances.
   (G)   The work for which a building permit is issued shall commence within
180 days after the date thereof, unless an application for an extension of 90
days has been submitted to the Building Official and approved by him or her.
   (H)   Permits issued by the Building Official under the provisions of this
section and the Building Code shall expire and be null and void if the work
authorized by a permit is abandoned or suspended for a period of 180 days or if
work is not commenced or completed within the time limitations of division (G)
above.
   (I)   A building permit for new construction shall not be issued for a lot
which either does not meet the minimum area of acceptable soils for on-site
sewage disposal and treatment or does not have enough acceptable soils within
the lot or under legal contract to construct at least two complete septic
drainfield systems.
   (J)   The Building Official may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit
issued under the provisions of this chapter and the Building Code whenever the
permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or
in violation of any city ordinance, regulation or code.
(Prior Code, § 12-81) (Res. 1997-18, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 1997-20, passed 4-
20-1999; Ord. 07-2012, passed 12-18-2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.031 MOVING PERMITS AND RELOCATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Before any building or structure which has been wholly or partially
erected on any premises, located either within or outside of the city, can be
moved to and be placed upon any other premises in this city, a building permit
shall be obtained. The applicant shall submit along with the application for a
building permit:
      (1)   Photographs taken from two or more angles of the structure to be
moved;
      (2)   Photographs of the lots on which the structure is to be located;
and
      (3)   Photographs of adjacent lots and structures.
   (B)   Any building or structure shall conform to all the provisions of this
chapter and the Building Code in the same manner as a new building or
structure. These requirements do not apply to construction sheds, agricultural
buildings or temporary structures to be located on a lot for 12 months or less.
If the City Administrator concurs with the Building Official that a building or
structure would depreciate or otherwise be incompatible with the area into
which it is to be moved, it may withhold issuance of a permit for the
relocation. If the City Council grants a moving permit, it may impose
conditions as it deems to be in the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 12-82) (Res. 1997-18, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 153.032 SEPTIC PERMITS.
   (A)    No building permit for any use requiring on-site sewage treatment and
disposal shall be issued until a septic permit has first been issued by the
Building Official.
   (B)   A septic permit shall be issued only after proof is furnished by the
applicant that a suitable on-site sewage treatment and disposal system can be
installed on the applicant’s lot. In the Historic Village Septic Treatment
Service Area, no new permits shall be issued for individual septic treatment
systems. All septic systems shall conform to all of the requirements of
Ch. 154 of this code.
   (C)   Not withstanding the procedures and regulations specified in §
154.03 of this code, existing on-site sewage treatment systems shall be
evaluated to determine location, condition and function, and shall be brought
into conformance with this chapter and
Ch. 154 of this code when:
      (1)   An application for a building permit for construction of an
addition onto the principal structure or a structural alteration of the
principal structure is submitted to and approved by the Building Official;
      (2)   The use of a structure or property changes;
      (3)   A conditional use permit for a duplex is granted by the City
Council;
      (4)   The Building Official deems it necessary to upgrade the existing
system, based upon evidence of the system failing to function properly, failing
to adequately treat sewage or otherwise posing a hazard to the public health;
or
      (5)   Upon sale or transfer of the property.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions specified in §§
154.03 and
154.04 of this code, when an existing nonconforming septic system is required
to be upgraded according to §
153.032 of this code, the new on-site sewage treatment system shall be
installed prior to the issuance of a building permit unless a financial
guarantee equal to 125% of the cost of installing such a system and is valid
for one year is issued to the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-83) (Res. 1997-18, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 1997-10, passed 5-
19-1998; Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 153.033 DRIVEWAY ACCESS PERMITS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Access required. All lots or parcels shall have direct adequate
physical access for emergency or public safety vehicles along the frontage of
the lot or parcel from either an existing improved city street or an existing
private road approved by the city. In addition to the required direct physical
access, a lot or parcel may have a private easement access driveway to the lot
over adjacent lots or parcels.
   (B)   Permit required. Construction or alteration of all driveways onto city
streets, approved private roads, county roads and state roads shall require a
driveway access permit. All driveways onto a street designated as a state
highway shall require an access permit from the state. All driveways onto a
street designated as an approved private road or city street shall require an
access permit from the City Engineer. All driveways onto a county road shall
require an access permit from the county’s Highway Department and must meet all
county regulations. A performance deposit shall be required as per the city
ordinance.
   (C)   Permit application. All applications for a city driveway permit shall
be submitted to the Zoning Administrator. Applications shall include:
      (1)   Application for driveway permit;
      (2)   A site plan drawn to scale including, but not limited to, the
following information: Proposed location of driveway, all structures on the
lot, septic system drainfield, well and major topographic features;
      (3)   Financial guarantee; and
      (4)   Copy of an issued county or state access permit if required.
   (D)   Driveway design standards.
      (1)   All driveways and all related applications shall indicate that the
proposed driveway meets the following standards:
 Residential Uses Commercial and Industrial Uses
                           Residential Uses           Commercial and Industrial
                                                      Uses
                           Size and type to be
                           determined by the Zoning
                           Administrator as per
Culverts                   engineering standards.
                           Aprons or an alternative
                           as per engineering
                           standards shall be
                           required
Maximum grade in right-of- 3%                         3%
way
                           4:1, but slopes as steep
                           as 3:1 may be allowed in
                           an area of fill subject to
                           approval of the City
                           Engineer. Where existing
                           slopes are steeper than 3:
Maximum side               1, a driveway may be       4:1
                           permitted upon compliance
                           with a stabilization plan
                           prepared by a registered
                           professional engineer to
                           the satisfaction of the
                           City Engineer
                           12%, but driveways with
Maximum slope              slopes greater than 10%    8%
                           must have bituminous
                           surface
Maximum turning radius     15 feet                    40 feet
onto street
Maximum width              22 feet                    As determined by the city
                           6 feet, but if less 10
Minimum clearance each     feet bituminous surface    10 feet
side of centerline         may be required by City
                           Engineer
Minimum driveway angle in  60 degrees to 90 degrees   60 degrees to 90 degrees
right-of-way
Minimum lot line setback   10 feet                    10 feet
Minimum setback from
intersection of two or     60 feet (20 feet in VHS)   60 feet
more rights-of-way
Minimum setback from       3 feet                     5 feet
principal structure
Minimum turning radius     5 feet                     10 feet
onto street
Minimum vertical           12 feet                    12 feet clearance
Minimum width              12 feet                    16 feet
Minimum width in right-of- 16 feet                    As determined by the
way                                                   Zoning Administrator
                           Minimum of 6 inches class
Surface strength           V gravel or its equivalent
                           as determined by the City
                           Engineer
 
      (2)   All applications for a driveway permit that do not meet these
minimum standards shall submit any additional information as may be required by
the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Turnaround. All residential structures set back more than 150 feet
from the centerline of the fronting city street or approved private road shall
provide a turnaround in the driveway near the principal structure. The
turnaround area shall be a minimum of 40 feet by 50 feet, have a minimum
turning radius of 45 feet if a cul-de-sac, or be a design approved by the
Zoning Administrator. All turnarounds shall have the same surface strength as
required for the driveway.
   (F)   Permit issuance restricted. No building or septic permit shall be
issued for a particular parcel of property until a driveway permit has been
approved or issued.
   (G)   Conformity of work. Before any site preparation work is done, that
part of the driveway located in the street right-of-way shall be constructed
according to the permit.
   (H)   Number and type. The number and types of driveways onto city streets
may be controlled and limited in the interests of public safety and efficient
traffic flow as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   (I)   Change of use. Upon a change in land use or a major change in the
traffic pattern of the existing use, existing driveways are not automatically
perpetuated and a new driveway application may be required.
   (J)   Financial guarantee. To assure compliance with this chapter and the
conditions of any driveway permit, the Zoning Administrator may require a
financial guarantee from each applicant. The financial guarantee may be in the
form of a performance bond, irrevocable letter of credit or escrow deposit as
regulated in other sections of this chapter. The amount of the financial
guarantee shall be equal to 125% of the estimated cost of the construction of
the driveway, or an amount determined by the Zoning Administrator. A financial
guarantee shall be released to the applicant upon satisfactory completion of
the driveway installation according to this chapter and any conditions of the
driveway permit.
   (K)   Typical driveway cross-section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/90f2001aca8f7b202fd21c3684f7788adfd22537/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1736.png]
 
   (L)   Typical driveway profile. 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/90f2001aca8f7b202fd21c3684f7788adfd22537/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1738.png]
 
   (M)   Review and approval.
      (1)   The City Engineer shall review and approve driveway plans that have
greater than a 10% grade, provide less than a 16-foot clearance, and have less
than a 4:1 side slope. The City Engineer shall determine if the plans must be
prepared by a registered professional engineer and if a financial guarantee in
the amount of 125% of the cost of construction of the driveway and
stabilization of the slopes must be posted with the city.
      (2)   A financial guarantee valid for one year following completion may
be required for erosion control and slope stabilization. Soil conservation
service and Watershed District approval (where applicable) shall be required.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for all costs incurred by the
city for review of the plans, inspection, as well as preparation of any legal
documents required for approval.
(Prior Code, § 12-84) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Streets and Sidewalks,
Ch. 151
§ 153.034 FARM SITE PLAN PERMITS.
   (A)   Agricultural buildings and/or structures, as defined in M.S. §
326B.103, as it may be amended from time to time, on parcels of 20 and more
acres shall require a farm site plan permit to be issued by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   An application for a farm site plan permit shall include but not be
limited to the following:
      (1)   Location of all existing structures on the property;
      (2)   Dimensions of existing structures;
      (3)   Use of existing structures;
      (4)   Location of driveway, well, septic tank and septic drainfield;
      (5)   Location of proposed structure;
      (6)   Dimensions of proposed structure;
      (7)   Use of proposed structure;
      (8)   Setbacks of all existing and proposed structures from lot lines,
street, slopes exceeding 18%, drainage courses, wetlands and bodies of waters;
and
      (9)   Any other information as may be required by the Zoning
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 12-86) (Ord. 12-2005, passed 9-20-2005)
§ 153.035 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No person may change the use of any land except for agricultural
purposes or for the construction of essential services and transmission lines,
or occupy a new or structurally altered building used for nonagricultural use
after the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter was derived,
unless he or she has first obtained a certificate of occupancy.
   (B)   (1)   Application for a certificate of occupancy for a new building or
for an existing building which has been so altered may be filed with the
Building Official any time after the application for a building permit for the
building.
      (2)   The certificate of occupancy shall be issued within ten days after
the construction or alteration of the building or part thereof has been
completed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and the Building
Code.
      (3)   Pending the issuance of the certificate, a temporary certificate of
occupancy may be issued, subject to the provisions of the Building Code for a
period not to exceed 12 months during the completion of the erection or the
alteration of a building. The temporary certificate shall not be construed as
in any way altering the respective rights, duties or obligations of the owners
or of the city relating to the use or occupancy of the premises or any other
matter except under the restrictions and provisions as shall adequately ensure
the safety of the occupants.
      (4)   The use of any structure for which a building permit is required
shall be considered a violation of this chapter unless a certificate of
occupancy has been issued.
   (C)   Application for a certificate of occupancy for a new use of land shall
be made to the Building Official before any land shall be so used. The
certificate shall be issued within ten days after this application if the use
is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   A record of all applications for and certificates of occupancy shall
be kept on file.
(Prior Code, 12-87) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.036 FEES.
   There shall be an application fee for all applications made pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter and other city ordinances as set by resolution from
time to time by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-88)
§ 153.037 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT WORKSHEETS (EAW) AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
STATEMENTS (EIS).
   (A)   No zoning use permit, building permit, structure or land use, variance
or ordinance amendment shall be approved prior to review by the Zoning
Administrator to determine the necessity for completion of an EAW as required
by the Environmental Quality Board (EQB) environmental review program, Minn.
Rules parts 4410.1000 through 4410.1700.
   (B)   The purpose of an EAW is to assess rapidly, in a worksheet format,
whether a proposed action is a major action with the potential for significant
environmental affects, or in the case of a private action, whether it is of
more than local significance.
   (C)   Projects which shall be required to file a mandatory EAW with the city
shall include:
      (1)   Construction of a new or expansion of an existing industrial or
commercial facility equal to or in excess of 100,000 square feet of gross floor
area;
      (2)   Development of a facility for the extraction or mining of sand,
gravel, stone or other nonmetallic minerals which shall excavate 40 or more
acres of land to a mean depth of ten or more feet during its existence;
      (3)   Construction of a permanent or potentially permanent residential
development of 50 or more unattached dwelling units;
      (4)   Construction of a street on a new location over one mile in length
that shall function as a collector;
      (5)   Construction of additional travel lanes on an existing street for a
length of one or more miles;
      (6)   The addition of one or more new interchanges to a completed
limited-access highway;
      (7)   Construction or cumulative expansion of a marina or harbor project
which results in a total of 20,000 or more square feet of temporary or
permanent water surface area used for docks, docking or maneuvering of
watercraft;
      (8)   The diversion or channelization of a designated trout stream or a
natural watercourse with a total watershed of ten or more square miles;
      (9)   Actions that shall change or diminish the course, current or cross-
section of one acre or more of any protected water or protected wetland;
      (10)   Actions that shall change or diminish the course, current or
cross-section of 40% or more or five or more acres of a Type 3 through Type 8
wetland (as defined in United States Department of Interior, Fish and Wildlife
Service, Circular 39, Wetlands of the United States, 1956, excluding protected
wetlands, if any part of the wetland is within a shoreland area, delineated
floodplain or a state or federally designated Wild and Scenic River District;
      (11)   Actions resulting in the conversion of 640 or more acres of forest
or naturally vegetated land to a different open space land use;
      (12)   Actions resulting in the permanent conversion of 80 or more acres
of agricultural, forest or naturally vegetated land to a more intensive,
developed land use;
      (13)   The construction of an animal feedlot facility with a capacity of
1,000 animal units or more or the expansion of an existing facility by 1,000 or
more animal units; and
      (14)   Destruction of a property that is listed on the National Register
of Historic Places.
   (D)   An optional EAW may be required by the Zoning Administrator or City
Council if it determines that because of the nature or location of any proposed
action or development, the action or development may have the potential for
significant adverse environmental effects.
   (E)   As part of any permit approval, the city shall require the applicant
to submit an EAW to any governmental unit that might require one for the
particular proposed use or action.
   (F)   Those activities listed in 6 MCAR § 3.041 shall be exempt from these
regulations.
   (G)   (1)   Prior to or together with any application for a permit or other
form of approval for an activity, the proposer shall prepare an EAW of the
action’s environmental effects, reasonable alternatives to the project and
measures for mitigating the adverse environmental effects. Blank EAW forms
shall be available from the Zoning Administrator and the City Administrator.
The proposer shall submit the completed EAW to the Zoning Administrator. The
Zoning Administrator shall review the EAW and determine the adequacy of the
document. The Zoning Administrator shall use the standards of the state’s
environmental review program rules in its determination of adequacy. If the
Zoning Administrator determines the document is inadequate, he or she shall
return the document to the proposer to correct the inadequacies.
      (2)   The preparation of an EAW must be done by a consultant with the
credentials required by state statutes and/or administrative rules and the
consultant must be approved by the city. The consultant shall meet with the
Zoning Administrator and the city’s engineering consultant prior to the
preparation of the EAW to confirm the credentials of the consultant and to
identify the key elements of the EAW as it relates to the specific proposed
project and the key information to be provided in the EAW.
   (H)   The Zoning Administrator shall submit a copy of the EAW to the
Planning Commission and City Council members, to any person upon request, to
any local unit of government that might be affected by the proposal and to the
EQB. The EQB shall publish notice of the availability of the EAW in the EQB
Monitor. The Zoning Administrator shall also publish a release in the official
newspaper stating the name and location of the action, a brief description of
the activity, the location at which copies of the EAW are available for review,
the date the comment period expires and the procedures for commenting.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall review the EAW at its next regularly
scheduled meeting after the Zoning Administrator accepts the EAW from the
proposer. The Planning Commission shall recommend to the City Council whether
or not there are significant environmental effects from the project to require
the preparation of an EIS.
      (2)   Comments on the EAW shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator
within 30 days following the publication of the notice of availability in the
EQB Monitor. The Planning Commission may hold a public hearing to receive
comments on the EAW if it determines that a hearing is necessary or useful. The
hearing may be combined with any other meeting or hearing for a permit or other
approval for the project. Public notice of the hearing shall be published as
required in §
153.027 of this code.
   (I)   The City Council shall decide whether or not an EIS must be filed
according to its review of the EAW no later than 60 days after the publication
of the notice of availability in the EQB Monitor. The City Council shall,
whenever practicable and consistent with other ordinances and regulations,
require that mitigation measures identified in the analysis be incorporated in
the project’s design and construction. The City Council shall notify the EQB
and all persons and governmental units that commented on the EAW of its
decision within ten days.
   (J)   If preparation of an EIS is required, the proposer shall follow the
procedure outlined in the state’s environmental review program rules.
   (K)   Any proposed project or use for which an EIS is required shall be
considered a conditional use permit as defined in this chapter and shall comply
with the procedure for approval of a conditional use permit.
   (L)   Time delays in the normal permit process caused by the filing and
review of an EAW and/or EIS shall not be considered part of the permit approval
time requirements within this chapter. Delays shall be considered as additional
required time for each required permit. The permit process for the proposed
project may be continued from the point it was interrupted by the EAW/EIS
process.
   (M)   Any applicant shall reimburse the city prior to the issuance of any
permits, for all reasonable costs, including legal and consulting fees,
incurred by the city in review of the applicant’s project and its impact on the
community.
   (N)   The applicant shall deposit with the city from time to time an amount
determined by the Zoning Administrator, necessary to cover the costs prior to
commencement of the review or stage of the review. The applicant shall
reimburse the security fund for any deficits caused if the amount actually
expended or billed to the city by the consultants exceeds the security fund
balance. The city shall refund any money deposited in the security fund and not
expended within 30 days after final action on the application. The city shall
not pay interest on security funds.
(Prior Code, § 12-89) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-
21-2020)
DISTRICTS
§ 153.050 DISTRICTS; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Basic districts. For the purpose of this chapter, the community is
hereby divided into the following basic zoning districts:
 
District Symbol Intent and Primary Use
A               Preserve agriculture as a viable permanent land use and a
                significant economic activity within the city.
I               Provide areas adjacent to major thoroughfares for the express
                use of industrial developments.
                Provide an area for storage and repair of boats and boat
MS              trailers to complement the river access and marinas in the
                city.
RR              Provide rural low density housing on lands not capable of
                supporting long-term, permanent agricultural production.
VHS-C           Provide a mix of commercial and residential uses within the old
                village consistent with the atmosphere of a rural village.
                Provide higher density housing consistent with a village
VHS-R           atmosphere on lots capable of supporting on-site sewage
                treatment systems in order to prevent the need for public
                services.
 
   (B)   Overlay districts. The following overlay regulations are in addition
to regulations imposed by the existing basic zoning district:
 
District Symbol Intent and Primary Use
                Preserve large areas of agricultural production and provide
AP              owners of these areas with economic incentives in accordance
                with the Agricultural Preserves Act.
                Preserve, protect and manage environmentally sensitive areas
C               having wet soils, steep slopes, exposed bedrock or unique
                natural and biological features in accordance with compatible
                uses.
                Protect the natural environment, homes and other structures
FP              from floodwaters by preserving the natural overflow of lakes,
                streams, rivers and watersheds.
LS-1            Protect the ecological and scenic values of waterbodies by
                regulating setbacks and lot sizes.
                Conserve and protect the natural scenic values and resources of
SCRR            the St. Croix River Valley in order to maintain the high
                standard of environmental quality indicative of one of the few
                remaining wild rivers in the nation.
                Provide urban density residential and commercial uses within
SCRU            the old village while conserving and protecting the natural
                scenic values and resources of the St. Croix River Valley.
 
(Prior Code, § 12-131) (Ord. 1997-19, passed 7-15-1997)
§ 153.051 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum area, height and the like.
      (1)   The following chart sets out the dimensional requirements of each
basic zoning district:
 A RR VHS-R VHS-C I-1A I-1B I-1C MS
                                                                           A        RR      VHS-R  VHS-C     I-1A I-1B I-1C MS
Front yard setback for all structures from centerline
   Local roads (except 15th Street, 60th Street and 50th Street west of 105      105     0***** 65        105  105  105  105
County Highway 21
   State and county highways and 15th Street, 60th Street and 50th Stree150**    150**   0***** 65        150* 150* 150* 150**
west of County Highway 21                                                                                    *    *    *
Frontage on improved public street (ft) and lot width on cul-de-sac        300***   300***  150*** 150***    300* 300* 300* 300**
                                                                                                             **   **   **   *
Lot area per dwelling unit (du)
                                                                           1 du /           22,500 22,500
   One-family structure                                                 10A***   5A***   sq.    sq.                      5A
                                                                           (5A min)         ft.*** ft.***
   Two-family                                                                    10A***
Lot depth (ft)                                                             300*     300*    130*   130*      300* 300* 300* 300*
Maximum buildable slope for structures (percent) except substandards       18       18      12     12        18   18   18   12
structures****
                                                                           10% or   10% or         20% or
                                                                           one-half one-           4,350 sq
                                                                           acre,    half           ft,       35%
Maximum site coverage by any structure and/or impervious surface           whicheve acre,   20%*   whichever *    35%  35%  25%
                                                                           r is     whichev        is
                                                                           greater  er is          greater*
                                                                                    greater
Maximum slope for on-site sewage treatment systems and driveways           12       12      12     12        12   12   12   12
Maximum structure height (ft)                                              35       35      35     35        50   50   35   35
Minimum main floor area per du (sq ft)                                     800      800     800    800       800  800  800  800
Minimum nonresidential area                                                                        22,500 sq 5A   5A   5A   5A
                                                                                                   ft
Rear yard setback for all structures (except accessory buildings over      50       50      30     30        50   50   50   50
1,500 sq ft)
Setbacks: accessory buildings over 1,500 sq ft
   Side                                                                 100      100     NA     NA        50   50   50   50
   Rear                                                                 100      100     NA     NA        50   50   50   50
   Well                                                                 200      200     NA     NA        50   50   50   50
Side yard setback for all structures (except accessory buildings over
1,500 sq ft)
   From interior lot line (ft)                                          50       50      10     10        50   50   50   50
   From street                                                          As required for a corner lot (ft)
du = dwelling unit / ft = feet / sq ft= square feet
* Maximum three times the width of the lot of ten or more acres.
** Whenever the street right-of-way is greater than 66 feet, the setback shall be 117 feet from the edge of the street right-of-
way. In the I-1A and I-1B Districts, the setback from the I-94 right-of-way line shall be a minimum of ten feet.
*** Any division of land resulting in two or more parcels of less than 20 acres, having a width of less than 500 feet at the
front lot line shall require subdivision approval. The state legislature has restricted, in municipalities having subdivision
regulations, the filing and recording of conveyances on parcels of residential or agricultural land of less than 20 acres and
having a width of less than 500 feet where the conveyance results in a division of the parcel into two or more parcels, any one
of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in width.
**** Exceptions to the slope requirement for substandard structures are found in §
153.007 of this code.
***** Subject to all corner lots meeting an 80-foot site triangle.
 
      (2)   The maximum site coverage and/or impervious surface in the I-1C
Industrial District may exceed 35% per conditional use approval subject to the
site not exceeding a maximum of 65% and meeting the requirements of divisions
(B)(12) and (C)(1) through (C)(4) below. Any site with coverage and/or
impervious surface in excess of 25% or 35% shall require an effective reduction
of the impact of impervious surface to the equivalent of 25% or 35% impervious
surface site coverage through the use of Low Impact Design (LID) methods and
the completion and acceptance by the City Engineer, the county’s Conservation
District (WCD) Engineer and Valley Branch Watershed Organization (VBWD)
Engineer of the Impervious Surface Worksheet, as set forth in the city’s Best
Management Practice (BMP) and Storm Water Guide.
      (3)   For additional setback requirements (other than those included in
the table above), see division (E) below.
   (B)   Exceptions to minimum area, height and other requirements.
      (1)   Existing lot. For the purpose of this chapter, the term EXISTING
LOT means a lot or parcel of land which was of record as a separate lot or
parcel in the office of the County Recorder, on or before the adoption date of
the ordinance from which this chapter was derived, except as provided for in
division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Buildable lots. Except in the VHS-R and VHS-C Zoning Districts, any
lot or parcel created in accordance with Ch. 160 of this code, which contains
at least two and one-half acres of buildable or net developable area as defined
by this chapter and has at least 60% of the required frontage on an improved
public street for the zoning district in which it is located shall be
considered buildable provided the lot or parcel can comply with all other
requirements of this chapter, including division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   Contiguous lots or parcels. If in a group of two or more contiguous
lots or parcels of land owned or controlled by the same person, any individual
lot or parcel does not meet the full width or area requirements of division (B)
(2) above, such individual lot or parcel cannot be considered as a separate
parcel of land for purposes of sale or development, but must be combined with
adjacent lots or parcels under the same ownership so that the combination of
lots or parcels shall equal one or more parcels of land each meeting the lot
width and area requirements of division (B)(2) above. In the case of two
contiguous existing nonconforming lots under common ownership, each containing
an existing residence, these lots shall have exemption from this division (B)
(3), as long as both residences continue to qualify as existing legally
nonconforming uses. The ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall take
effect upon publication.
      (4)   Subdivision of lots. Any lot or parcel of land subdivided by any
means after the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter was
derived for purposes of erecting a structure, must be approved as required in
 Ch. 160 of this code.
      (5)   Lake and stream frontage lots. All lots having frontage on a
waterbody or lying within a shoreland management area shall be subject to the
regulations of
Ch. 156 of this code.
      (6)   Lots in floodplains. All lots in a designated floodplain shall be
subject to the regulations of
Ch. 159 of this code.
      (7)   Through or double frontage lots. Lots as defined in
Ch. 160 of this code and include lake and stream frontage lots having a public
street as one lot line and a waterbody as the opposite lot line. The Zoning
Administrator shall determine what shall be considered the front, side and rear
yards for application of the provisions of this chapter.
      (8)   Reduction of required area. No lot or parcel shall be reduced in
area or dimension so as to make the lot or parcel less than the minimum
required by this chapter; and if the existing lot or parcel is less than the
minimum required, it shall not be further reduced.
      (9)   Minimum area requirements for lots. Since no public sanitary sewer
is planned to be installed in the city, all single- and two-family homes shall
demonstrate suitable soil conditions for a minimum on-site sewage treatment
area of one acre per dwelling unit. A building permit shall not be issued for a
lot which does not either meet the minimum acreage of acceptable soils for on-
site sewage treatment or does not have enough acceptable soils within the lot
or under legal contract to construct at least two complete septic/drainfield
treatment systems.
      (10)   On-site sewage treatment systems. All on-site sewage treatment
systems shall be maintained in conformity with the regulations of
Ch. 154 of this code. Where there is evidence of the system failing to function
properly, failing to treat sewage adequately, septic tank effluent percolating
from the ground or where there is evidence a failing system is posing a hazard
to the public health, the system shall be corrected and conform to these
standards within 30 days.
      (11)   Slopes. Land having a slope between 13% and 18%, outside of the
Lower St. Croix Bluffland District, may be included in the required buildable
area of a lot or parcel if the county’s Soil and Water Conservation District
has determined that:
         (a)   The soils on the land shall support the structures, on-site
sewage treatment systems and driveways without significant risk of erosion,
groundwater contamination or damage to structures thereafter constructed;
         (b)   The development of this land shall not damage heavily wooded
areas or other significant natural features;
         (c)   All structures, including driveways, are set back at least 40
feet from the crest of any 18% slope; and
         (d)   There is at least one acre of contiguous land with a slope of
less than 13% that is suitable for the required on-site sewage treatment
systems and the driveways.
      (12)   Site coverage. Site coverage (impervious surfaces) for churches
and institutional housing permitted by administrative permit in the RR Zoning
District may exceed their allotted maximum impervious surface allowance,
provided that:
         (a)   The soils on the land shall support the structures and required
on-site sewage treatment systems, parking areas, driveways and other proposed
impervious surface. The site shall demonstrate the development does not pose
significant risk of erosion, groundwater contamination or surface water
discharge in excess of standards used by the Watershed District and the
county’s Soil and Water Conservation District. In addition, whenever possible
low impact development methods shall be used to mitigate any groundwater
discharge;
         (b)   The applicant shall restrict its surface water runoff to
predevelopment rates to be in conformance with the Watershed District rules and
regulations;
         (c)   The applicant shall restrict its surface water runoff volumes to
those volumes that would have been generated from the site had it been
developed to have 10% of the parcel covered with impervious surfaces. That
applicant shall prove that runoff equal to three-fourths’ inch times the total
impervious surface area minus three-fourths’ inch times 10% of the impervious
area shall infiltrate within 72 hours based on the infiltration rate of the
soil. No infiltration basin shall be deeper than two feet. The bottom of all
infiltration basins shall be a minimum of two feet above the seasonal high
water table; and
         (d)   The development proposed by the applicant is in harmony with the
goals of the Comprehensive Plan.
      (13)   Parcel or lot area of five or more acres. Wherever in this chapter
a parcel or lot area of five or more acres is required, except for the
subdivision or creation of new parcels or lots, that requirement may be met by
a nominal parcel as defined in this chapter. All new parcels or subdivision of
existing parcels must meet all of the requirements of this chapter.
      (14)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. The maximum impervious
surface coverage in the I-1A, I-1B and I-1C Zoning Districts may be increased
up to 35%, provided that the storm water impact and runoff from the site, both
as to volume and rate, is equivalent of a surface coverage of 25%. The method
and completion of reduction shall be approved by the City Engineer, County
Engineer and Valley Branch Watershed District.
   (C)   Engineering and design guidelines. The following additional
engineering and design guidelines are to be met for any use within the
agricultural, except for agricultural activities and residences, rural
residential, except for residences and agricultural activities, and Industrial
Zoning Districts.
      (1)   The applicant shall also submit a plan for the entire site, showing
what low-impact design methods are used. The applicant shall work directly with
the city to develop the plan, using low-impact design methods, as established
by the county’s Soil and Conservation Office and the appropriate governing
bodies, Water Management Organization or Watershed District Management Office.
The plan shall be reviewed and approved by both the city and the county’s
Conservation Office prior to any building permits being issued.
      (2)   The applicant must identify in the development agreement all areas
where there is any fractured bedrock. The city may require, as part of the
study, a geotechnical analysis including soil borings taken, at a minimum
radius of every 150 feet. In addition, any fractured bedrock found within 150
feet of any area of construction, must be covered with a minimum of five feet
of soil to reduce the potential for any pollutants reaching the groundwater.
      (3)   The applicant may be asked, as a condition, to install a time
dosing device to control rate of the flow of effluents from the septic system.
      (4)   The development agreement must address traffic concerns, and any
improvements needed to accommodate additional traffic, as a result of the use.
      (5)   The applicant shall also enter into a development agreement, to
address all of the conditions as set forth in divisions (B)(12)(a) and (B)(12)
(b) above, along with a cash escrow deposit or an irrevocable letter of credit,
equal to 150% of the City Engineer’s estimate to implement the low-impact
design plan and for the maintenance of the low-impact areas for the next 20
years. A separate cash escrow deposit or an irrevocable letter of credit equal
to 150% of the City Engineer’s estimate shall also be required to satisfy any
conditions agreed to in the development agreement, in order to satisfy division
(B)(12)(b) above.
   (D)   Permitted encroachments on required yards. The following shall be
permitted encroachments into setback and height requirements, except as
restricted by other sections of this chapter.
      (1)   Any yards. Posts, off-street parking spaces, flues, belt course,
leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels, cornices, eaves, gutters, awnings,
canopies, steps, chimneys, flag poles, ornamental features, open fire escapes,
sidewalks, fences, essential services, exposed ramps (wheelchair) and similar
features provided they do not extend above the height of the ground floor level
of the principal structure or to a distance less than three feet from any lot
line nor less than one foot from any existing or proposed driveway, floodlights
or other sources of light illuminating authorized illuminated areas, loading
areas or yards for safety and security reasons, provided the direct source of
light is not visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent residential
property.
      (2)   Corner lots. Nothing shall be placed or allowed to grow in a manner
as to impede vision between a height of two and one-half and ten feet above the
centerline grades of the intersecting streets within 100 feet of the
intersection.
      (3)   Rear yards. Recreational and laundry drying equipment, picnic
tables, open arbors and eating facilities, provided these are not less than
five feet from any lot line.
      (4)   Yards abutting streets. Encroachments in any yard that abuts a
public or private street shall be considered as permitted encroachments as
outlined above, except that no encroachment shall be permitted within two feet
of the present or proposed right-of-way lines.
   (E)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Front setbacks. Where a vacant lot is adjacent to structures
existing at the time of adoption of this chapter having a substandard setback
from that required by this section, the Zoning Administrator shall determine a
reasonable, average, calculated front yard setback to implement the
requirements of this section, and to fulfill its purpose and intent. However,
in no case shall a building be required to be setback more than 180 feet from
the street centerline, except where an Industrial District is adjacent to a
Residential District. In a Residential Zoning District, the front yard setback
shall conform to the established setback line, unless the Zoning Administrator
determines that another setback is more appropriate as provided herein.
      (2)   Setbacks from slopes.
         (a)   All structures, including but not limited to, driveways, decks,
swimming pools and the like, shall be setback a minimum of 20 feet from the
crest of all slopes exceeding 18% as determined by the Zoning Administrator,
with the exception of driveways crossing human-made slopes that were created by
the construction of roads or related ditches, and that extend only
perpendicular to the road for a horizontal distance of 30 feet or less, and,
where no other option is available to the landowner.
         (b)   An exception to this requirement, allowing an encroachment
within the 20-foot setback from an 18% slope, is allowed outside of the Lower
St. Croix River Bluffland and Shoreland Management District via a conditional
use permit. As a condition of approval the applicant must submit an erosion
control plan for the proposed encroachment.
         (c)   The erosion control plan shall be reviewed and approved by the
City Engineer. In addition, the Zoning Administrator shall require a
performance bond or letter of credit for a period of two years beginning at the
time of completion to ensure the applicant adheres to the erosion control,
landscaping and any revegetation plan. The performance bond or letter of credit
shall equal 125% of the total cost of the erosion control as recommended by the
City Engineer.
      (3)   Setbacks adjacent to Residential Zoning Districts. Where a
commercial or Industrial Zoning District is adjacent to a Residential Zoning
District, the minimum commercial or industrial building setback from the lot
line shall be 75 feet.
      (4)   Setbacks along collector and arterial streets. Along streets
designated as collectors and arterials in the Comprehensive Plan, the minimum
setback for all structures shall be as required in division (A) above from the
nearest planned street centerline.
      (5)   Setbacks from private roads. All setback requirements of this
section shall also be applicable to private roads and easement access rights-
of-way.
      (6)   Side yard setback from interior lot line on substandard lots. The
side yard setbacks for all structures from interior lot lines on lots in the
rural residential and agricultural zones, which are less than five acres in
size and which were of record prior to March 3, 1970, shall be 25 feet rather
than 50 feet if the proposed structure meets the requirements for a
administrative permit as set out in §
153.028 of this code and meets all other zoning ordinance requirements.
      (7)   Side yard setback from interior lot line on extreme substandard
rural residential lots. The sideyard setback for all structures from interior
lot lines on lots in the Rural Residential District which are two acres or less
in size and/or have a lot width of 200 feet or less the setback shall be ten
feet rather than 25 feet if the proposed use meets all other zoning ordinance
requirements.
   (F)   Height.
      (1)   No structure except those for public utilities, wind generators,
farm buildings, churches and other places of worship shall exceed a height of
35 feet.
      (2)   The maximum height limitations for churches and other places of
worship shall be as follows:
         (a)   A maximum height of 35 feet for the occupied area of the
structure;
         (b)   A maximum height of 50 feet for the structural elements; and
         (c)   A maximum height of 60 feet for the following non-structural
elements: spires or steeples, belfries or bell towers, cupolas, crosses or
other religious symbols or decorative elements.
   (G)   Public convenience structures. No public convenience structure shall
be located within the public right-of way except by administrative permit
issued by the Zoning Administrator. The structures shall include but not be
limited to trash containers, institutional directional signs, bicycle racks,
benches, planting boxes, awnings, flag poles, light standards, stairs, stoops,
light wells, signs and others. The structures do not include public utility
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 12-132) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 1997-10, passed 5-
19-1998; Ord. 1997-19, passed 7-15-1997; Ord. 1997-27, passed 1-18-2000; Ord.
97-39, 3-20-2000; Ord. 2004-45, passed 8-17-2004; Ord. 13-2004, passed 9-21-
2004; Ord. 7-2006, passed 3-16-2006; Ord. 09-2008, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 11-
2008, passed 12-17-2008; Ord. 01-2009, passed 1-20-2009; Ord. 05-2009, passed
6-16-2009; Ord. 01-2014, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 03-2015, passed 8-18-2015; Ord.
11-2016, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 01-2017, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 01-2018,
passed 6-19-2018)
§ 153.052 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the districts as established by this chapter are as
shown on the map published herewith and made part of this chapter, the map is
designated as the official zoning map of the city and shall be maintained as
provided herein by the City Administrator. The district boundary lines on the
map are intended to follow street right-of-way lines, street centerlines or lot
lines unless the boundary line is otherwise indicated on the map. In the case
of unsubdivided property or in any case where street or lot lines are not used
as boundaries, the district boundary lines shall be determined by use of
dimensions or the scale appearing on the map. All of the notations, references
and other information shown thereon shall have the same force and effect as if
fully set forth herein and are hereby made a part of this chapter by reference
and incorporated herein as fully as if set forth herein at length. Whenever any
street or other public way is vacated, any zoning district line following the
centerline of the vacated street or way shall not be affected by the vacation.
   (B)   When any permit as provided for in this chapter is issued which
affects any zoning district in a substantial way, the permit shall be coded and
noted on the Zoning District Map by the City Administrator so as to clearly
indicate the use so permitted which may not otherwise be clearly evident from
the map or text of this chapter.
   (C)   When uses in a zoning district are listed as both permitted and
conditionally permitted uses, or when any other conflict appears in this
chapter with respect to permitted uses within a zoning district, the more
restrictive portion shall be applied.
   (D)   (1)   Any landowner may request a determination that a use not
included in any district of this chapter is substantially similar to a use
classified as permitted, conditionally permitted or other specially permitted
in the zoning district in which the property is located. An application for a
determination shall be filed with the City Administrator who shall refer it to
the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review the application in accordance
with this chapter and the Comprehensive Plan and forward a recommendation of
approval or denial to the City Council along with an explanation for taking the
action. If the City Council determines the use is substantially similar to a
use included in these regulations, the use shall thereafter be an allowable use
whenever the similar listed use is authorized.
(Prior Code, § 12-133)
§ 153.053 USES.
   Uses in the various districts shall be as follows:
           Rural    VHS-     VHS-    Light      Light      Light      Mari ne
 Agricult  Residen  Residen  Commer  Industr    Industr    Industr    Service
 ural (Ag) tial (R) tial     cial    ial (I-1A) ial (I-1B) ial (I-1C) (MS)
                    (VHS-R ) (VHS-C)
                                                      Rural   VHS-    VHS-   Light   Light   Light
                                             Agricult Residen Residen Commer Industr Industr Industr Mari ne
                                             ural     tial    tial    cial   ial (I- ial (I- ial (I- Service
                                             (Ag)     (R)     (VHS-   (VHS-  1A)     1B)     1C)     (MS)
                                                              R )     C)
Agricultural, rural                          P        P       N       N      P       P       P       N
Agricultural, suburban                       P        P       N       N      P       P       P       N
Airports, airstrips, heliports               N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Animal impounding facility                   N        N       N       N      P       P       N       N
Animals, commercial training                 C        N       N       N      C       C       C       N
Antennas or towers over 35 feet in height    C        C       N       N      C       C       N       N
Archery range, commercial                    N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Armories, convention halls and similar uses  N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Auto/car wash                                N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Auto reduction yard, junkyard                N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Auto repair                                  N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Automobile service station                   N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Barbershop, beauty shops                     N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Bed and breakfast (see § 153.108 of this    C        C       C       C      N       N       N       N
code)
Blacktop or crushing equipment for highway   C        N       N       N      C       C       I       N
construction (temporary use only)
Boat dock (non-commer cial)                  A        A       A       N      N       N       N       N
Boat, boat trailer, marine sales             N        N       N       C      N       N       N       A
Boat, boat trailer and marine storage and    N        N       N       N      N       N       N       C
repair, enclosed or screened
Broadcasting studio                          N        N       N       C      N       N       C       N
Business service                             N        N       N       P      P       P       P       N
Cafés and restaurants                       N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Campgrounds                                  N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Cemeteries                                   C        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Churches                                     C        C       C       C      N       N       N       N
Clear cutting                                See §
                                             153.104 of this code
*Clubs or lodges                             N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
*Commercial recreation                       N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Commercial schools                           N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Data center                                  N        N       N       N      C       C       C       N
Disposal, solid and liquid waste             N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Distribution center                          N        N       N       N      C       C       C       N
Domestic pets                                A        A       A       A      N       N       A/C     N
Drive-in business                            N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Duplex                                       N        C       N       N      N       N       N       N
Essential services, government uses          N        C       C       C      C       C       C       N
Essential services, public utility           C        C       C       C      C       C       C       N
Explosives, manufacture, storage or use      N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Exterior sales and storage                   N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Exterior sales and storage (wholesale only)  N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Farm, see agriculture
Farm equipment sales                         N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Farmers market                               N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Farm kitchen, accessory                      A        A       N       N      N       N       N       N
Farm kitchen, A/C                            A/C      A/C     N       N      N       N       N       N
Farm winery                                  C        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Feedlots, commercial (see § 153.078 of this C        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
code)
Fences                                       See §
                                             153.080 of this code
Flammable gases and liquids, business        N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
distribution
Flex office                                  N        N       N       N      C       C       C       N
Forests                                      P        P       P       P      P       P       C       N
Fuel sales (wholesale and storage)           N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Fulfillment Center: e-commerce               N        N       N       N      C       C       C       N
Funeral homes                                N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Garage, private                              A        A       A       A      A       A       A/C     N
Garage, repair (commercial)                  N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Garage, storage (commercial)                 N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Golf courses                                 C        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
                                             See §§
Grading                                      153.101 and
                                             153.102 of this code
Greenhouses (commercial production only)     C        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Gun clubs                                    N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Gun ranges                                   N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Home occupation                              P        P       P       P      N       N       N       N
Hotel (see §                                N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
153.109 of this code)
Institutional housing                        N        C       N       N      N       N       N       N
Junkyard                                     N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Kennels, private (see §                     C        C       N       N      N       N       N       N
153.005 of this code)
Kennels, commercial (see §                  N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
153.005 of this code)
Land reclamation                             See §
                                             153.101 of this code
Laboratory: Medical, dental                  N        N       N       N      C       C       C       N
Laboratory: research and development         N        N       N       N      C       C       C       N
Lodging room (not more than two)             A        C       C       N      N       N       N       N
Manufacturin g, heavy                        N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Manufacturin g, light industrial (maximum    N        N       N       N      C       C       C       N
height of 25 feet in I-1C)
Marina (including boat rental)               N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Medical uses                                 N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Mining, sand and gravel                      N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Mobile home court/park                       N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Motel                                        N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Multiple family dwellings (three or more     N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
units)
Nature center (public and private)           C        C       N       N      N       N       N       N
Nursery, retail sale of plants               S        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Nursery, wholesale growing of plants         P        C       N       N      N       N       N       N
Nursery and garden supplies (exterior or     P        C       N       N      N       N       N       N
enclosed sales)
Offices (maximum height of 35 feet in I-1C)  N        N       C       C      C       C       C       N
Offices, accessory                           N        N       N       C      C       C       C       A
Office/wareho use                            N        N       N       N      C       C       C       N
Off-street loading                           N        N       N       A      A       A       A/C     A
Off-street parking                           A        A       A       A      A       A       A/C     A
Park                                         P        P       P       P      P       P       P       N
Park, private                                C        C       C       C      C       C       C       N
Photo/art studio                             N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Race tracks                                  N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
*Recreation areas (commercial)               N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Recreation equipment storage (private)       A        A       A       A      N       N       N       N
Reduction or processing of refuse, trash and N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
garbage
Rental of cars, trailers, campers, trucks    N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
and similar equipment
Repair garage (commercial)                   N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Repair shop (small appliances)               N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Research (see §                             C        C       N       N      C       C       C       N
153.005 of this code)
Research, agricultural                       C        C       N       N      C       C       C       N
No CUP for homes
Residential, multiple-famil y                N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Residential, single-family detached          P        P       P       P      N       N       N       C
Residential waterfront uses                  A        A       A       A      N       N       N       N
Resorts                                      N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Rest or nursing home                         N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Retail business                              N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Retail business, accessory to office         N        N       N       C      C       C       C       N
Retail sales of agricultural supplies        C        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Riding stable, commercial (minimum of 20     C        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
acres)
Riding stable, private (minimum of 20 acres) C        C       N       N      N       N       N       N
Riding stable, private, with equine-assiste  C        C       N       N      N       N       N       N
d therapy (minimum of 20 acres)
Sales, open lot and outdoor                  N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Sales, seasonal agricultural                 N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Schools, private                             N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Schools, public                              N        C       N       N      N       N       N       N
Self storage, multi-story                    N        N       N       N      C       C       C       N
Service station                              N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Signs                                        See §
                                             153.130 of this code
Solar, accessory to principal use            A        A       A       A      A       A       A       A
Solar, community solar energy system
   Ground- mounted                                                        CUP     CUP     CUP
   Rooftop                                                                P       P       P
Solar farm                                                                   CUP     CUP     CUP
Stand, private roadside (notify neighbor for ADMIN    C       N       C      N       N       C       N
CUP)
Storage, highway during construction         ADMIN    ADMIN   ADMIN   ADMIN  ADMI N  ADMI N  I       N
Storage, enclosed or screened principal use  N        N       N       N      C       C       N       A
Storage, open principal use                  N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Storage, enclosed, accessory to a principal  A        A       A       A      A       A       C       N
use
Storage, not accessory to permitted          N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
principal use
Storage, underground, flammable materials    C        C       C       C      N       N       N       N
accessory to agricultural or residential use
Studio, arts or crafts                       C        C       C       C      N       N       N       N
Supper club                                  N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Swimming pool (commercial)                   N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Swimming pool (private)                      ADMIN    ADMIN   ADMIN   ADMIN  N       N       N       N
Taverns and bars                             N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Tennis courts (private)                      ADMIN    ADMIN   ADMIN   ADMIN  N       N       N       N
Training facility                            N        N       N       N      C       C       C       N
Terminal, transportation /motor freight      N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Theater                                      N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Theater, drive-in                            N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Townhouses                                   N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Trailer parks                                N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Truck and auto service station               N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Temporary farm dwelling (mobile home)        ADMIN    ADMIN   N       N      N       N       N       N
Transportation school                        N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Used auto parts                              N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Utility substation                           C        C       C       C      C       C       C       C
Vegetative cutting                           See §
                                             153.104 of this code
Vehicle sales                                N        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Veterinary clinic                            C        N       N       N      N       N       N       N
Warehousing                                  N        N       N       N      C       C       C       N
Waterfront uses (commercial)                 N        N       N       C      N       N       N       N
Waterfront uses (residential)                A        A       A       A      N       N       N       N
Wholesale business                           N        N       N       N      C       C       C       N
A     Permitted accessory use
ADMIN Administrative permit required
C     Conditionally permitted use
I     Interim use permit
N     Not allowed
P     Permitted use
A/C   Permitted accessory, conditional use permit required
*     Except as otherwise noted
      Conditional permitted uses may be subject to performance standards set
**    out in §§
      153.075 through
      153.116 of this code
 
(Prior Code, § 12-134) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 1997-10, passed 5-
19-1998; Ord. 1997-12, passed 8-18-1998; Ord. 1997-21, passed 12-15-1998; Ord.
1997-15, passed 1-19-1999; Ord. 07-2008, passed 4-18-2008; Ord. 09-2008, passed
9-16-2008; Ord. 06-2009, passed 6-16-2009; Ord. 02-2014, passed 5-20-2014; Ord.
03-2015, passed 8-18-2015; Ord. 05-2016; passed 5-17-2016; Ord. 01-2018, passed
6-19-2018; Ord. 04-2019, passed 8-20-2019; Ord. 07-2021, passed 8-17-2021; Ord.
08-2021, passed 10-19-2021; Ord. 02-2022, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 153.054 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. As permitted and regulated under
Ch. 159 of this code.
   (B)   Accessory uses. As permitted and regulated under
Ch. 159 of this code.
(Prior Code, 12-135)
§ 153.055 SHORELAND MANAGEMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. As permitted and regulated under
Ch. 156 of this code.
   (B)   Accessory uses. As permitted and regulated under
Ch. 156 of this code.
(Prior Code, 12-136)
§ 153.056 CONSERVANCY OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. To manage areas unsuitable for development due to wet soils,
steep slopes or large areas of exposed bedrock, and manage areas of unique
natural and biological characteristics in accordance with compatible uses.
These are areas which may be unsuitable for development due to wet soils, steep
slopes, heavy vegetation, scenic views, bedrock formations and/or other
physical features of unique natural and biological characteristics in need of
proper land use management. The areas shall also include the following:
      (1)   Elements of the local hydrological system in need of protection and
preservation;
      (2)   Protection of open space as designated in the Comprehensive Plan;
and
      (3)   Critical areas and state management areas as designated by federal
and state actions and regulations related to the Lower St. Croix River.
   (B)   Permitted and accessory uses. All uses permitted in the basic zoning
district and other regulating overlay districts shall require an administrative
permit.
   (C)   Conditionally permitted uses. All uses allowed by conditional use
permit in the basic zoning district and other regulating overlay districts
shall require a conditional use permit.
   (D)   Designation of conservancy areas. Any land area within the city which
meets the criteria listed in division (A) above, whether or not so designated
on the official zoning map shall be considered conservancy for permit purposes.
Areas designated on the official zoning map as conservancy may be excluded by
action of the City Council if it is demonstrated conservancy conditions do not
exist.
(Prior Code, § 12-137)
§ 153.057 ST. CROIX RIVER OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. As permitted and regulated under
Ch. 157 of this code.
   (B)   Accessory uses. As permitted and regulated under
Ch. 157 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-138)
§ 153.058 AGRICULTURAL PRESERVES (AP) OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. To preserve, promote, maintain and enhance the use of land
for agricultural purposes where it is necessary and desirable because of high
quality soils, availability of water and/or highly productive agricultural
capability and to protect the land from encroachment by nonagricultural uses,
structures or activities.
   (B)   Permitted uses and structures. The following uses shall be permitted
by right:
      (1)   Commercial agricultural and horticulture;
      (2)   Farm buildings;
      (3)   Farm drainage and irrigation systems;
      (4)   Forestry and tree farms;
      (5)   One farm dwelling on each farm;
      (6)   Up to three dwelling units on each quarter-quarter section to
include at most one farm dwelling and two non-farm dwellings, or three non-farm
dwellings provided:
         (a)   The landowner has enough acres in AP so that the overall density
does not exceed the one dwelling unit per quarter-quarter section limitation of
the agricultural preserve, and agrees to covenant that the acreage necessary to
maintain that density may not be subdivided, or developed with additional
dwelling units, until the encumbered acres have been removed from the
agricultural preserve, and in conformance with the provisions of § 153.059 of
this code;
         (b)   Each dwelling unit shall be located on a separately owned parcel
which shall be at least five acres in size and entirely within one quarter-
quarter section;
         (c)   This procedure is subject to the regulations of
Ch. 160 and § 153.059(K) of this code. When the parcels on which the dwelling
units are located are created by a minor subdivision, at most three parcels may
be created in each quarter-quarter section;
         (d)   Each parcel on which a dwelling unit is located must have at
least 300 feet of frontage along an existing, improved public street;
         (e)   The driveway serving the parcel shall be separated from adjacent
driveways on the same side of the street by the following distances depending
upon street type:
            1.   Local street: 300 feet;
            2.   Collector street: 300 feet;
            3.   Minor arterial: 500 feet; and
            4.   Minimum distance from the intersection of two or more of the
above: 100 feet.
         (f)   The dwelling shall be set back at least 105 feet from the
nearest existing or planned street centerline and be separated at least 500
feet from the nearest farm building.
      (7)   Historic sites; and
      (8)   Other uses as permitted by §
153.053 of this code for the zoning district.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted. Uses and structures which are customarily
accessory and clearly incidental and subordinate to permitted uses and
structures, and those accessory uses permitted by §
153.053 of this code for the zoning district.
   (D)   Conditionally permitted uses. The following conditionally permitted
uses may be approved by the City Council provided that the provisions and
requirements of this chapter are fully met:
      (1)   Feedlots and poultry facilities;
      (2)   Home occupations; and
      (3)   Agricultural service establishments incidental to the principal
agricultural use of the property primarily engaged in performing agricultural
animal husbandry or horticultural services on a fee or contract basis including
corn shelling, hay bailing, thrashing, sorting, grading and packing of fruits
and vegetables for the grower; agricultural produce milling and processing;
horticultural services; fruit picking; grain cleaning; harvesting and plowing;
farm equipment service and repair; veterinary services; and the boarding and
training of horses.
   (E)   Other specially permitted uses. Other uses as allowed by
administrative permit by §
153.053, of this code for the zoning district.
   (F)   Standards for granting conditional use permits. No conditional use
permit shall be issued by the City Council unless following review and written
findings it determines that the proposed use satisfies the following conditions
and the conditions set forth in §
153.027 of this code.
      (1)   Non-farm structures shall be sited on a separately surveyed and
described parcel.
      (2)   The use shall not be one to which the noise, odor, dust or chemical
residues of commercial agriculture may have an adverse impact on or result in
the agricultural use being designated a nuisance or trespass.
      (3)   All agricultural service establishments shall be located at least
300 feet from any driveway affording access to a farm dwelling or field and at
least 500 feet from any single-family dwelling.
      (4)   All agricultural service establishments shall be screened on the
perimeter of the establishment by a solid fence, wall or natural vegetation of
not less than six feet in height.
      (5)   An agricultural service establishment shall be incidental and
necessary to the conduct of agriculture within the Agricultural Zoning
District; and public utility and service structures shall be located and
constructed at the places and in a manner that they shall not interfere with
the conduct of agriculture by limiting or interfering with the access of fields
or the effectiveness and efficiency of the farmer and farm equipment including
crop spraying aircraft.
   (G)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted by right or by conditional use permit shall be
prohibited in the AP Overlay District.
   (H)   Minimum lot sizes, yard requirements and structure spacings.
      (1)   Lot size. Five acres with a minimum buildable area of two and one-
half acres, not to exceed a density of one dwelling unit for each quarter-
quarter section of at least 35 acres.
      (2)   Yard requirements. As regulated by §
153.053 of this code for A and AP Zoning Districts of this chapter.
      (3)   Structure spacing. Non-farm uses shall be separated at least 500
feet from the nearest farm building.
   (I)   Conservation. Land within an agricultural preserve shall be farmed and
otherwise managed according to sound soil and water conservation management
practices. Management practices which are not sound shall be any use of the
land resulting in wind or water erosion in excess of the soil loss tolerance
for each soil type as found in the United States Soil Conservation Service, and
the state’s technical guide.
   (J)   Complaint. Upon receipt of a written complaint stating the conditions
or land management practices which are believed to be in violation of division
(H) above, the City Council shall consult with the County Soil Conservation
District. The district shall determine the average soil loss in tons per acre
per year for each field cited in the complaint according to the universal soil
loss equation and the wind erosion equation, and shall return to the City
Council a report showing the average soil loss in tons per acre per year for
each field and a list of alternative practices that the landowner can use to
reduce the soil loss to the allowed limit mentioned in division (H) above.
After consultation, and if in the judgment of the City Council the land is not
being managed properly as required herein, the City Council shall adopt a
resolution to this effect and shall seek corrective measures from the owner. At
the request of the landowner, the district shall assist in the planning, design
and application of the practices selected to reduce the soil loss to an
acceptable level and shall give landowners a high priority for providing
technical and cost share assistance.
   (K)   Subdivision. Subdivision of property within an AP Overlay District
shall be subject to the following regulations in addition to the regulations of
Ch. 160.
      (1)   To the extent feasible, each lot created for a non-farm use shall
be located on land not suitable for agricultural use. The land includes areas
of nonprime agricultural soils as defined in the Comprehensive Plan, areas with
slopes of 13% and greater, areas of heavy natural vegetation and areas
unsuitable for agricultural production because of size.
      (2)   Each lot less than one quarter-quarter section in area created for
nonagricultural use shall be approved by the City Council prior to recording of
the deed at the County Recorder’s office. No building or zoning use permit
shall be issued for any lot created after the adoption date of the ordinance
from which this chapter was derived unless the City Council has approved the
property description and certificate of survey for the lot.
      (3)   No lot shall be created that results in a need for the construction
of any public or private street or access easement.
      (4)   Each lot created shall have a minimum buildable area of two and
one-half acres. Buildable area shall be defined as land having a slope of 13%
or less and enough soils suitable for the installation of two on-site sewage
treatment systems.
      (5)   No lot shall be created that might be adversely affected by
adjacent agricultural operations in terms of noise, dust, odors or other
activities that might result in the agricultural operation being designated a
nuisance or trespass.
   (L)   Eligibility. To be eligible for agricultural preserve certification,
the landowner must submit a rezoning application to the City Administrator
requesting that his or her land be zoned at a density of one dwelling unit for
each quarter-quarter section and prove the land meets the following criteria.
      (1)   The land shall be designated as being agricultural on the
Comprehensive Plan land use map.
      (2)   The land comprises 40 or more contiguous acres or a minimum of 35
acres provided the land is a single quarter-quarter parcel and the amount less
than 40 acres is due to a public right-of-way or a perturbation in the
rectangular survey system resulting in a quarter-quarter section of less than
40 acres; noncontiguous parcels may be included to achieve the minimum acreage
requirement provided that each parcel is at least ten acres in size and
provided that all separate parcels are farmed together as a unit.
      (3)   The land comprises not less than 20 acres, is surrounded by
eligible land on not less than two sides, consists predominately of class I, II
or III soils according to the land capability classification system of the
county’s Soil Conservation District, is considered by the City Council to be an
essential part of the Agricultural District, and was a parcel of record prior
to January 1, 1980, or was an agricultural preserve prior to becoming a
separate parcel of at least 20 acres.
   (M)   Application for rezoning. An application for rezoning shall be
processed as regulated by §
153.029 of this code.
   (N)   Forms. The following forms may be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator or City Administrator. An application for agricultural preserve
certification shall consist of the following completed forms to be submitted to
the City Administrator:
      (1)   Application for initiating placement of land into a metropolitan
agricultural preserve;
      (2)   Affidavit of authority; and
      (3)   Metropolitan agricultural preserves restrictive covenant.
   (O)   Review. The City Administrator shall submit the application for
agricultural preserve certification to the Planning Commission for its review
and recommendation at its next regularly scheduled meeting following submission
of the application to the City Administrator.
   (P)   Recommendation. The Planning Commission shall review the application
and forward a recommendation of certification or denial to the City Council at
its next regularly scheduled meeting following the Planning Commission’s
meeting at which the review was conducted.
   (Q)   Granting or denial of certification. The City Council shall either
grant or deny the application for certification. If certification is granted,
the City Council shall, within five days, submit the original application to
the County Recorder for proper recording and copies to:
      (1)   The County Auditor, County Assessor, County Soil Conservation
District; and
      (2)   The Metropolitan Council.
   (R)   Fee. The City Council may require an application fee not to exceed $50
to defray administrative costs.
   (S)   Termination of an agricultural preserve. An agricultural preserve
shall continue until either the landowner or the City Council initiates
expiration as follows.
      (1)   A landowner may initiate expiration by submitting a notice
initiating expiration of a metropolitan agricultural preserve, available from
the City Administrator to the City Council. The applicant may rescind the
notice and expiration at any time during the first two years following the
notice.
      (2)   (a)   The City Council may initiate expiration by notifying the
landowner by registered letter provided the Comprehensive Plan and zoning for
the land have been officially amended so that the land is no longer planned and
zoned for long-term agriculture, evidenced by a maximum residential density
permitting more than one dwelling unit on each quarter-quarter section.
         (b)   The notice shall describe the property for which the expiration
is desired and shall state the date of expiration which shall be at least eight
years from the date of the notice.
         (c)   Upon receipt of the notice provided in this section, or upon
notice served by the City Council as provided in this section, the City Council
shall notify the County Recorder, County Auditor, County Assessor, County Soil
Conservation District and the Metropolitan Council of the date of expiration.
         (d)   An agricultural preserve shall not expire any sooner than eight
years after the date of the notice initiating expiration of a metropolitan
agricultural preserve.
   (T)   Expiration. Expiration of an agricultural preserve initiated by the
landowner shall not automatically result in a rezoning of the property to a
greater density.
   (U)   Early termination. Termination of an agricultural preserve earlier
than a date derived through application as regulated in this section shall be
permitted only if the governor declares a public emergency pursuant to a
petition submitted to him or her by either the landowner or the City Council.
   (V)   Architectural standards for institutional use structures.
Institutional use structures shall be of fire-resistive construction, and
exterior surfaces of all structures must be faced with brick, stone,
architectural concrete (block), precast concrete, EIFS/stucco panels or glass,
of earthtones or other tones or colors in harmony with the natural
characteristics of the area in which it is constructed and approved by the
Design Review Commission, acting as the Architectural Standards Committee.
      (1)   Building design shall be reviewed and evaluated by the Design
Review Commission, City Planner and/or Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Blank facades without windows and doors are prohibited, with the
exception of the side facing away from the public street.
      (3)   All sides of structures shall have the same quality of
architectural treatment.
      (4)   Variety and creativity in building facade is required through
changes in building materials (but not in quality of materials), placement of
doors and windows, height and roof lines. Primary facades shall not present a
continuous wall without architectural details that add visual interest through
articulation, recession or projection.
      (5)   Topographical features shall be incorporated into the form of the
structure when possible, utilizing natural grade.
      (6)   (a)   The view of all rooftop equipment and related piping,
ducting, electrical and mechanical utilities abutting a street on buildings
constructed shall be screened from the ground level view. Screening may include
parapet walls, penthouses or other architecturally integrated elements. Wood
fencing or chain link with slats shall not be used for screening.
         (b)   The term GROUND LEVEL VIEW shall be defined as the view of the
building from the property line(s) that abuts a street. A cross-sectional
drawing shall be provided that illustrates the sight lines from the ground
level view.
      (7)   Rooftop solar collectors, skylights and other potentially
reflective rooftop building elements shall be designed and installed in a
manner that prevents reflected glare and obstruction of views from other sites
and structures.
      (8)   Roof slopes shall not exceed 1:12 for all principal buildings.
      (9)   Delivery, service, storage, maintenance and trash collection areas
shall be located out of view from the public right-of-way or substantially
screened through landscaping or architectural features that match the primary
structure. Service, storage and trash collection areas are not allowed in
setback areas.
      (10)   All permanent utilities connecting to a building shall be
underground.
(Prior Code, § 12-139) (Ord. 01-2012, passed 1-17-2012; Ord. 08-2020, passed
10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.059 AGRICULTURAL (Ag) ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Ag Zoning District is intended to recognize land in the city
that is primarily rural in character with the primary land use being farming or
agriculture.
      (2)   This district is designated in recognition of the Comprehensive
Plan that states the city’s policy to retain prime agricultural land and to
encourage the continuance of commercial farming.
      (3)   While non-farm housing is a permitted use as regulated herein, the
primary purpose of the district is to preserve and protect land for commercial
farming.
   (B)   Permitted uses and structures. The following uses shall be permitted:
      (1)   Single-family residential housing at a density of one dwelling unit
per ten acres provided that total acreage divided by ten equals allowed
density. All numbers shall be rounded down. Each dwelling unit shall be located
on a separately owned parcel which shall be at least five acres in area;
      (2)   The parcel on which a dwelling unit is located shall have at least
300 feet of frontage along an existing, improved public street;
      (3)   The driveway serving the parcel shall be separated from adjacent
driveways on the same side of the street by the following distances depending
upon street type:
         (a)   Local street: 300 feet;
         (b)   Collector street: 300 feet;
         (c)   Minor arterial: 500 feet; and
         (d)   Minimum distance from the intersection of two or more of the
above: 100 feet.
      (4)   The dwelling shall be set back at least 105 feet from the nearest
existing or planned street centerline and be separated at least 500 feet from
the nearest farm building;
      (5)   Twenty acres are required to subdivide a property, of which two or
more parcels may qualify if 100% of all of the land owners apply; and
      (6)   Other uses as permitted by §
153.053 of this code for the zoning district.
   (C)   Accessory uses and structures. Uses and structures which are
customarily accessory and clearly incidental and subordinate to permitted uses
and structures, and those accessory uses permitted by §
153.053 of this code for the zoning district shall be permitted.
   (D)   Conditionally permitted uses. The following conditionally permitted
uses may be approved by the City Council provided that the provisions and
requirements of this chapter are fully met:
      (1)   Agricultural service establishments incidental to the principal
agricultural use of the property primarily engaged in performing agricultural
animal husbandry or horticultural services on a fee or contract basis including
corn shelling, hay bailing, thrashing, sorting, grading and packing of fruits
and vegetables for the grower; agricultural produce milling and processing;
horticultural services; fruit picking, grain cleaning; harvesting and plowing;
farm equipment service and repair; veterinary services; and the boarding and
training of horses; and
      (2)   Those uses listed as being allowed by conditional use permit in the
Ag Zoning District in §
153.053.
   (E)   Standards for granting conditional use permits. No conditional use
permit shall be issued by the City Council unless following review and written
findings it determines that the proposed use satisfies the conditions set forth
in §§
153.027 and
153.058 of this code.
   (F)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or permitted by conditional use permit shall be
prohibited.
   (G)   Minimum lot sizes, yard requirements and structure spacings.
      (1)   Lot size. Five acres with a minimum buildable area of two and one-
half acres, not to exceed a density of three dwelling units in any quarter-
quarter section.
      (2)   Yard requirements. As regulated by §
153.051 of this code.
      (3)   Structure spacing. Non-farm uses shall be separated at least 500
feet from the nearest farm building.
   (H)   Nuisances. In areas where agricultural and nonagricultural uses
interface, the nonagricultural developer is to be responsible for any desired
screening or fencing that does not interfere with the agricultural use. No
condition such as animals, dust, noise or odors shall be considered a nuisance
if doing so would inhibit normal agricultural practices and operations unless a
condition must be controlled to protect the health and safety of the public.
   (I)   Development of substandard parcels.
      (1)   In areas where the maximum density of three dwelling units for each
quarter-quarter section was exceeded at the time the ordinance from which this
chapter was derived was adopted, individual lots of record before the adoption
of the ordinance that are at least five acres in size, and have at least 300
feet of frontage on an existing, improved public street and have enough soils
suitable for the installation of two on-site sewage treatment systems may be
developed in accordance with the regulations for the RR Zoning District
contained in §
153.051 of this code.
      (2)   Existing dwelling units in areas where the maximum density of three
dwelling units for each quarter-quarter section was exceeded prior to the
adoption date of the ordinance from which this chapter was derived shall not be
considered nonconforming uses and may be altered or otherwise developed in
accordance with the regulations for the RR Zoning District contained in §
153.051 of this code.
   (J)   Conservation. Land within the Ag Zoning District shall be farmed and
otherwise managed according to sound soil and water conservation management
practices.
   (K)   Subdivision. Subdivision of property within the Ag Zoning District
shall be subject to the following regulations in addition to the regulations of
Ch. 160 of this code.
      (1)   To the extent feasible, each lot created for a non-farm use shall
be located on land not suitable for agricultural use. The land includes areas
of nonprime agricultural soils as defined in the Comprehensive Plan, areas with
slopes of 13% and greater, areas of heavy natural vegetation and areas
unsuitable for agricultural production because of size.
      (2)   Each lot less than 20 acres in size shall be approved by the City
Council prior to recording the deed at the County Recorder’s office. No
building or zoning use permit shall be issued for any lot created after the
adoption date of the ordinance from which this chapter was derived unless the
City Council has approved the property description and certificate of survey.
      (3)   No lot shall be created that results in a need for the construction
of any public or private street or access easement.
      (4)   Each lot shall have a minimum buildable area of two and one-half
acres.
   (L)   Rezoning. In accordance with the Comprehensive Plan, the City Council
shall consider rezoning requests to allow a greater residential density for
property within this district only for those properties adjacent to or
contiguous with the RR Zoning District.
   (M)   Architectural standards for institutional use structures.
Institutional use structures shall be of fire-resistive construction, and
exterior surfaces of all structures must be faced with brick, stone,
architectural concrete (block), precast concrete, EIFS/stucco panels or glass,
of earthtones or other tones or colors in harmony with the natural
characteristics of the area in which it is constructed and approved by the
Design Review Commission, acting as the Architectural Standards Committee.
      (1)   Building design shall be reviewed and evaluated by the Design
Review Commission, City Planner and/or Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Blank facades without windows and doors are prohibited, with the
exception of the side facing away from the public street.
      (3)   All sides of structures shall have the same quality of
architectural treatment.
      (4)   Variety and creativity in building facade is required through
changes in building materials (but not in quality of materials), placement of
doors and windows, height and roof lines. Primary facades shall not present a
continuous wall without architectural details that add visual interest through
articulation, recession or projection.
      (5)   Topographical features shall be incorporated into the form of the
structure when possible, utilizing natural grade.
      (6)   (a)   The view of all rooftop equipment and related piping,
ducting, electrical and mechanical utilities abutting a street on buildings
constructed shall be screened from the ground level view.
         (b)   Screening may include parapet walls, penthouses or other
architecturally integrated elements. Wood fencing or chain link with slats
shall not be used for screening.
         (c)   The term GROUND LEVEL VIEW shall be defined as the view of the
building from the property line(s) that abuts a street. A cross-sectional
drawing shall be provided that illustrates the sight lines from the ground
level view.
      (7)   Rooftop solar collectors, skylights and other potentially
reflective rooftop building elements shall be designed and installed in a
manner that prevents reflected glare and obstruction of views from other sites
and structures.
      (8)   Roof slopes shall not exceed 1:12 for all principal buildings.
      (9)   Delivery, service, storage, maintenance and trash collection areas
shall be located out of view from the public right-of-way or substantially
screened through landscaping or architectural features that match the primary
structure. Service, storage and trash collection areas are not allowed in
setback areas.
      (10)   All permanent utilities connecting to a building shall be
underground.
(Prior Code, 12-140) (Ord. 7-2006, passed 8-15-2006; Ord. 01-2012, passed 1-17-
2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.060 RURAL RESIDENTIAL (RR) ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The RR District is intended to be primarily a Residential
District, but which may also accommodate agriculture and related and accessory
uses. This is the general area of the city which is not primarily suited to
farming due to soil conditions, slope, tree cover, rock formations and other
physical features as indicated in the Comprehensive Plan and is better suited
to non-farm housing and related accessory uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. As permitted and regulated under §
153.053 of this code.
   (C)   Accessory uses. As permitted and regulated under §
153.053 of this code.
   (D)   Minimum lot requirements. Each lot shall be a minimum of five acres in
size with a minimum buildable area of two and one-half acres except as provided
for in this chapter. Due to limiting environmental conditions, some lots may
have to be larger than five acres to assure that those lots shall have the
minimum required buildable area.
   (E)   Architectural standards for institutional use structures.
Institutional use structures shall be of fire-resistive construction, and
exterior surfaces of all structures must be faced with brick, stone,
architectural concrete (block), precast concrete, EIFS/stucco panels or glass,
of earthtones or other tones or colors in harmony with the natural
characteristics of the area in which it is constructed and approved by the
Design Review Commission, acting as the Architectural Standards Committee.
      (1)   Building design shall be reviewed and evaluated by the Design
Review Commission, City Planner and/or Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Blank facades without windows and doors are prohibited, with the
exception of the side facing away from the public street.
      (3)   All sides of structures shall have the same quality of
architectural treatment.
      (4)   Variety and creativity in building facade is required through
changes in building materials (but not in quality of materials), placement of
doors and windows, height and roof lines. Primary facades shall not present a
continuous wall without architectural details that add visual interest through
articulation, recession or projection.
      (5)   Topographical features shall be incorporated into the form of the
structure when possible, utilizing natural grade.
      (6)   The view of all rooftop equipment and related piping, ducting,
electrical and mechanical utilities abutting a street on buildings constructed
shall be screened from the ground level view. Screening may include parapet
walls, penthouses or other architecturally integrated elements. Wood fencing or
chain link with slats shall not be used for screening. The term GROUND LEVEL
VIEW shall be defined as the view of the building from the property line(s)
that abuts a street. A cross-sectional drawing shall be provided that
illustrates the sight lines from the ground level view.
      (7)   Rooftop solar collectors, skylights and other potentially
reflective rooftop building elements shall be designed and installed in a
manner that prevents reflected glare and obstruction of views from other sites
and structures.
      (8)   Roof slopes shall not exceed 1:12 for all principal buildings.
      (9)   Delivery, service, storage, maintenance and trash collection areas
shall be located out of view from the public right-of-way or substantially
screened through landscaping or architectural features that match the primary
structure. Service, storage and trash collection areas are not allowed in
setback areas.
      (10)   All permanent utilities connecting to a building shall be
underground.
(Prior Code, § 12-141) (Ord. 08-2020, passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.061 VILLAGE HISTORIC SITE, RESIDENTIAL (VHS-R) AND COMMERCIAL (VHS-C)
ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose. These districts are intended to recognize the unique and
special environmental qualities and problems of the old village. The purposes
of these regulations are:
      (1)   To assure that all uses, new development and construction, building
and site rehabilitation, remodeling, property access, parking and pedestrian
circulation are in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   To develop and maintain these districts as an economic, social and
physical asset to the entire city;
      (3)   To recognize the unique and special problems of the old village not
common to new commercial and residential areas;
      (4)   To provide an opportunity for all landowners and tenants to be
aware of and comment upon all significant activities and development which may
affect the well-being of the area; and
      (5)   To promote the preservation and protection of historic structures
to enhance the environmental quality of neighborhoods and to establish and
improve property values.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In addition to those uses permitted by §
153.053 of this code, the following uses shall be permitted: Interior
remodeling, except those requiring structural alterations and those allowing a
more intensive use of the structure.
   (C)   Other specially permitted uses. The following uses shall require an
administrative permit:
      (1)   All public improvements;
      (2)   Signs as required in §
153.130 of this code;
      (3)   All new construction requiring a building permit and exceeding $500
in assessed value as determined by the Building Official; and
      (4)   All exterior construction, alteration, remodeling or restoration of
any structure or sign, except normal maintenance or repairs.
   (D)   Standards for granting administrative permits. An administrative
permit shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator if he or she determines the
proposed use satisfies the following conditions and the conditions set forth in
§
153.028 of this code.
      (1)   All work shall be of a character and quality that maintains the
distinguishing features of the building and the environment. The removal or
alteration of distinctive architectural features shall be avoided as shall
alterations that have no historical basis and which seek to create an earlier
appearance. The restoration of altered original features, if documentable, is
encouraged.
      (2)   Changes which may have taken place in the course of time are
evidence of the history and development of a building, structure or site and
its environment. These changes may have acquired significance in their own
right, and this significance shall be recognized and respected.
      (3)   Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired rather than
replaced whenever possible. In the event of replacement, new materials shall
match the original in composition, design including consideration of
proportion, texture and detail, color and overall appearance.
      (4)   New additions or alterations to structures shall be constructed in
a manner that if the conditions or alterations were to be removed in the
future, the form and integrity of the original structure would be unimpaired.
      (5)   The impact of alterations or additions on individual buildings as
well as on the surrounding streetscape shall be considered; major alterations
to buildings which occupy a corner lot or are otherwise prominently sited shall
be avoided.
      (6)   New construction shall be compatible with the historic and
architectural character of the district.
      (7)   The city design guidelines that are adopted by the City Council as
§§
161.15 and
161.16 of this code, provide additional guidance for administrative permit
design review.
   (E)   Special uses.
      (1)   As permitted by §
153.053 of this code; and
      (2)   As regulated by the standards contained in division (D) above and §
153.027 of this code.
   (F)   The Design Review Committee.
      (1)   Established; members. The Design Review Committee is a function of
the Heritage Preservation Commission described in §
32.32 of this code.
      (2)   Determination of level of review; minor work. The Zoning
Administrator may apply the guidelines in division (D) above and §§
161.15 and
161.16 of this code, and, if the work is conforming, approve permits for the
following types of work without convening the Design Review Committee:
         (a)   Reroofing;
         (b)   Repair or replacement of porches, windows, siding, trim and
doors if new materials match existing; or
         (c)   Masonry finishing and chimney reconstruction.
      (3)   Determination of level of review; major work. The Zoning
Administrator shall convene the Design Review Committee review of all other
types of work, including:
         (a)   Roof alterations and skylights;
         (b)   Alterations to the front or side elevations visible from the
public street including alterations to windows, siding, entries and trim;
         (c)   Additions;
         (d)   New construction, including garages; or
         (e)   Demolition.
   (G)   Exemptions. Properties abutting Pennington Avenue and west of
Pennington Avenue are exempt from division (D) above and §§
161.15 and
161.16 of this code. Residences constructed after 1940 and before January 1,
1995, shall be exempt from division (D) above and §§
161.15 and
161.16 of this code, unless the proposed work involves additions, the
construction of new accessory buildings or demolition.
(Prior Code, § 12-142) (Ord. 02-2008, passed 1-9-2008)
§ 153.062 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL (I-1A), LIGHT INDUSTRIAL (I-1B) AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
(I-1C).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these districts is to preserve land along
major traffic routes to be used by industrial uses that shall provide a sound
tax base for the city.
   (B)   Permitted uses. As permitted and regulated in §
153.053 of this code.
   (C)   Accessory uses. As permitted and regulated in §
153.053 of this code.
   (D)   Architectural standards. In the industrial zone, structures must be of
fire-resistive construction and exterior surfaces of all structures must be
faced with brick, stone, architectural concrete (block), precast concrete,
EIFS/stucco panels or glass, of earthtones or other tones or colors in harmony
with the natural characteristics of the area in which it is constructed and
approved by the Design Review Commission, acting as the Architectural Standards
Committee.
      (1)   Building design shall be reviewed and evaluated by the Design
Review Commission, City Planner and/or Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Blank facades without windows and doors are prohibited.
      (3)   All sides of structures shall have the same quality of
architectural treatment.
      (4)   Variety and creativity in building facade is required through
changes in building materials (but not in quality of materials), fenestration
height and roof lines. Primary facades shall not present a continuous wall
without architectural details that add visual interest.
      (5)   Minimizing continuous expanses of wall through facade articulation,
recession or projection is required.
      (6)   The incorporation of topographical features into the form of the
structure when possible, utilizing natural grades to create unique design, is
required.
      (7)   The view of all rooftop equipment and related piping, ducting,
electrical and mechanical utilities abutting a street on buildings constructed
shall be screened from the ground level view. Screening may include parapet
walls, penthouses or other architecturally integrated elements. Wood fencing or
chain link with slats shall not be used for screening. The term GROUND LEVEL
VIEW shall be defined as the view of the building from the property line(s)
that abuts a street. A cross-sectional drawing shall be provided that
illustrates the sight lines from the ground level view.
      (8)   Rooftop solar collectors, skylights and other potentially
reflective rooftop building elements shall be designed and installed in a
manner that prevents reflected glare and obstruction of views from other sites
and structures. Screening may be in the form of walls constructed of the same
building material and match the coloring of the principal building.
      (9)   Roof slopes shall not exceed 1:12 for all principal buildings.
      (10)   Overhead garage doors shall not be visible from a public street,
with the exception of interstate highway I-94, and shall not exceed 50% of the
perimeter of the building exterior.
      (11)   Above ground and underground fuel storage tanks are prohibited,
with the exception of an above-ground fuel storage tank incorporated into an
emergency generator.
      (12)   Delivery, service, storage, maintenance and trash collection areas
shall be located out of view from the public right-of-way or substantially
screened through landscaping or architectural features that match the primary
structure. Service, storage and trash collection areas are not allowed in
setback areas.
      (13)   All permanent utilities connecting to a building shall be
underground.
   (E)   Landscaping standards. All landscaping shall comply with §§
153.081 and
153.082 of this code. All properties zoned Light Industrial shall be landscaped
in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Green space. Total green space shall be a minimum of 20% of the
gross lot area.
      (2)   Quality landscape treatment. The minimum number of major or
overstory trees on any given site shall be as indicated below. These are the
minimum substantial plantings, in addition to other understory trees, shrubs,
flowers and ground cover deemed appropriate for a complete quality landscape
treatment of the site. Industrial sites shall contain at a minimum the greater
of one tree per 500 square feet of gross building floor area, or one tree per
25 lineal feet of site perimeter.
      (3)   Minimum size of plantings. Required trees and shrubs shall be of
the following minimum planting size:
         (a)   Deciduous trees: Three inches in diameter as measured six inches
above ground;
         (b)   Coniferous trees: Six feet in height; and
         (c)   Shrubs: Shrubs used for screening shall be in #5 containers.
      (4)   Sodding and ground cover. All areas not otherwise improved in
accordance with approved site plans shall be planted with tough native
materials where appropriate to reduce the amount of watering required and to
increase permeability of the site as approved by the Planning Commission and
City Council. Native vegetation such as prairie grasses and pollinator-friendly
vegetation rather than turf grass is required to be used on 25% of the green
space on a site.
      (5)   Front or side yards. The front or side yard from a public street
shall be at least ten feet deep, measured from the street right-of-way line.
This yard shall be kept clear of all structures, storage and off-street
parking. Except for driveways, this front or side yard shall extend along the
entire frontage of the lot and along both streets in the case of a corner lot.
      (6)   Buffer yard. The buffer yard requirements for a specific use shall
be determined as part of the CUP review process based on the standards and
factors listed below.
         (a)   Buffer yard on side or rear property lines adjacent to property
zoned for industrial use.
            1.   The buffer yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet wide.
            2.   The buffer yard is not required to include landscaped
screening.
            3.   The buffer yard shall be pervious and vegetated and/or may
include areas of stormwater ponding.
            4.   The buffer yard may also include deciduous canopy trees,
shrubs and eco-grasses, but may not include irrigated grass.
            5.   If a side or rear property boundary is adjacent to
undevelopable open space, i.e. wetlands, this open space may reduce or replace
the need for a buffer yard.
         (b)   Buffer yard adjacent to property zoned for residential use.
            1.   The buffer yard shall extend a minimum of 100 feet from the
property line, but can be reduced to a minimum of 50 feet if adequate screening
is provided and maintained. Adequate screening is generally defined as 90%
opacity year-round that is achieved within a period of five years. The degree
of opacity is measured based on the view of a person standing on the adjacent
property at a distance equal to the required yard setback.
            2.   The actual type and amount of screening to be considered
adequate screening for a specific use shall be determined based on the
following criteria:
               a.   The height and width of the proposed structure(s) to be
screened;
               b.   The anticipated level of activity and noise to be generated
by the proposed use;
               c.   The distance to the nearest residential structure;
               d.   The quality and density of existing vegetation on the
adjacent property;
               e.   The ability to adequately screen the proposed structure(s)
from the residential use;
               f.   The topography of the area, which could make it difficult
or impossible to fully screen the industrial building or use from the
residential;
               g.   The buffer yard shall not include irrigated lawn area; and
               h.   The maintenance of the vegetation in the buffer yard shall
be the responsibility of the conditional use permit holder.
         (c)   Plant units required. Within the landscaped buffer yard, a
minimum of 200 plant units shall be required for each 100 feet of property
line.
         (d)   Plant unit credit. Credit for plant units shall be assigned as
follows:
 
Vegetation                  Plant Unit Value
Deciduous trees             10
Evergreen/coniferous shrubs 5
Evergreen trees             15
Shrubs/bushes               1
 
      (7)   Landscape guarantee. An agreement shall be signed between the city
and the owner which states that in exchange for issuance of a building permit,
the owner shall construct, install and maintain all items shown on the approved
plan and that he or she shall replace and/or correct any deficiencies or
defaults that occur in the plan for a period of two complete growing seasons
subsequent to the installation of the landscaping plan. A letter of credit or
cash deposit shall be submitted along with the agreement at this time.
         (a)   If after two growing seasons all the commitments are met, then
the letter of credit or cash deposit and contract agreement are released to the
applicant or property owner.
         (b)   According to ordinance, the developer/owner is responsible for
permanently maintaining the landscaping in a neat and proper fashion.
      (8)   Approved landscaping plan maintenance.
         (a)   It shall be the responsibility of the current property owner to
see that the approved landscaping plan is maintained in an attractive and well-
kept condition. Maintenance shall include replacement of dead or damaged plant
material; the furnishing and installation of mulch; weeding; mowing of grass;
cleaning of litter; or any other action deemed necessary by the city to ensure
the requirements of this section are met.
         (b)   Any action that reduces canopy cover and/or landscaping below
what is required in this section shall require in-kind replacement. Failure to
maintain a landscape area shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
      (9)   Landscaping in parking areas.
         (a)   Parking areas that contain more than four parking spaces shall
be landscaped throughout the lot to the extent of at least 10% of the hard
surface area of the parking lot and driveways to the public right-of-way, as
measured from the outside curb. These landscaped areas shall consist of curb
islands approximately ten feet in width at the ends of each row of parking,
excluding locations of handicapped spaces. Curb islands shall also be designed
to break up longer rows of parking.
         (b)   Where feasible, linear parking lot landscaped islands, parking
lot rain gardens, depressed infiltration curb islands and demonstrated parking
areas shall also be included in the parking lot design.
         (c)   A combination of at least one tree and shrubs or semi-annual
flower species plants shall be planted in curb islands or interior parking lot
open space for each ten required parking spaces. Where the city determines that
the parking lot design cannot reasonably accommodate curb islands or other
landscaping open space features or cannot accommodate that amount of
landscaping cited herein, plant materials shall be moved to the outside
perimeter of the parking lots.
   (F)   Lighting. The following shall apply to all industrial properties in
addition to the requirements set forth in §
153.085 of this code.
      (1)   Any light fixture intended to illuminate the site shall contain a
cutoff which directs the light at an angle of 90 degrees or less. Exposure of
the light source shall not be permitted in view of adjacent property or public
right-of-way.
      (2)   The maximum height above the ground grade for light fixtures
mounted on a pole is 25 feet.
      (3)   No light sources shall be located on the roof unless the light
enhances the architectural features of the building and is approved by the
Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   All light poles shall be black or another similarly dark color.
   (G)   Exterior storage screening standards.
      (1)   Exterior storage includes the storage of goods, materials,
manufactured products, equipment school buses, motor freight tractors and
trailers and similar items not fully enclosed by a building.
      (2)   Exterior storage requires 100% screening with a wall constructed
only of the materials allowed to be used for the principal structure, and
requires vegetative screening along the wall.
      (3)   The area of exterior storage may not exceed 40% of the area of a
lot that is five or more acres. The area of exterior storage may not exceed the
lesser of 75% of the footprint of the building or 40% of the area of the lot on
lots smaller than five acres. Storage must be located to the rear or side of
the principal building on the site.
(Prior Code, § 12-143) (Ord. 11-2007, passed 8-7-2007; Ord. 07-2009, passed 6-
16-2009; Ord. 01-2018, passed 6-19-2018; Ord. 03-2021, passed 5-18-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.063 MARINE SERVICES (MS) ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to complement the river
accesses and marinas by providing storage and repair of boats and boat
trailers.
   (B)   Permitted uses. As provided in §
153.053 of this code.
   (C)   Accessory uses. As provided in §
153.053 of this code.
   (D)   Architectural standards. In harmony with the natural characteristics
of the area in which it is constructed and approved by the Design Review
Committee, acting as the Architectural Standards Committee.
(Prior Code, § 12-144) (Ord. 1997-15, passed 1-19-1999)
§ 153.064 PRESERVATION AND LAND CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT (PLCD).
   (A)   Purpose. To encourage a more creative and efficient development of
land and its improvements through the preservation of agricultural land,
natural features and amenities than is possible under the more restrictive
application of zoning requirements, while at the same time, meeting the
standards and purposes of the Comprehensive Plan and preserving the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city, as provided in Ch. 166 of this
code.
   (B)   Permitted uses. As permitted and regulated under this title.
(Prior Code, § 12-145) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008)
DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 153.075 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All uses, buildings and structures permitted pursuant to this chapter shall
conform to the performance and design standards set forth in this subchapter;
the standards are determined to be the minimum standards necessary to comply
with the intent and purposes of this chapter as set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-185)
§ 153.076 PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   (A)   There shall be no more than one residential dwelling unit on any one
parcel of land described in §
153.051 of this code, unless otherwise allowed in this chapter.
   (B)   No cellar, garage, recreational vehicle or trailer, basement with
unfinished exterior above or accessory building shall be used at any time as a
dwelling unit.
   (C)   There shall be no more than two dwelling units in any principal
residential structure as permitted by this chapter.
   (D)   Principal buildings with more than one use, in which one of those uses
is a dwelling unit shall require a conditional use permit.
   (E)   All principal buildings hereafter erected on unplatted land shall be
so placed as to avoid obstruction of future street or utility extensions and
shall be so placed as to permit reasonably anticipated future subdivisions and
land use.
   (F)   All principal buildings shall meet or exceed the minimum standards of
the state’s Building Code, the state’s Uniform Fire Code, the Department of
Health, the Pollution Control Agency and Ch. 154 of this code, except that
manufactured homes shall meet or exceed the requirements of the state’s
Manufactured Home Building Code in lieu of the state’s Building Code.
   (G)   The keeping of animals except for domesticated pets inside of a
dwelling unit shall be prohibited.
   (H)   All existing residential principal buildings with non-winterized
construction or inadequate nonconforming year-round on-site sewage treatment
systems as described in this chapter and
Ch. 154 of this code, shall be considered a seasonal principal building. No
building permit shall be issued for the improvement of a seasonal principal
building to a continuous year-round (365 days) habitable dwelling unit unless
the existing building conforms or the building after the improvement (including
septic system) shall conform with all the requirements of the city’s ordinances
and any applicable state requirements.
   (I)   Any alterations, modifications or enlargements of an existing seasonal
principal building for the purpose of continuing the seasonal use shall require
a conditional use permit.
   (J)   In all districts where single-family detached dwellings are permitted,
the following standards shall apply for single-family detached dwellings,
including manufactured homes, except that these standards shall not apply to
manufactured homes permitted by §
153.099 of this code.
      (1)   Minimum width. The minimum width of the main portion of the
structure shall not be less than 20 feet, as measured across the narrowest
portion.
      (2)   Foundations. All dwellings shall be placed on a permanent
foundation extending below the frostline and anchored to resist overturning,
uplift and sliding in compliance with the state’s Building Code.
   (K)   The size of a garage attached to a principal residential building
shall not have a foundation that exceeds 2,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 12-186) (Ord. 03-2012, passed 4-17-2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.077 TYPES OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Storage or tool sheds; detached residential accessory buildings;
detached domesticated farm animal buildings on residential parcels; and
agricultural buildings on rural farms are as follows:
      (1)   Storage or tool sheds. A one-story accessory building of less than
160 square feet gross area with a maximum roof height of 12 feet. No door or
other access opening in a storage or tool shed shall exceed 28 square feet in
area;
      (2)   Detached residential accessory building. A one-story accessory
building used or intended for the storage of motor-driven passenger vehicles,
hobby tools, garden equipment, workshop equipment and the like. The total area
of all accessory buildings shall not exceed 2,500 square feet, subject to the
requirements in divisions (A)(4) and (B) below;
      (3)   Detached domesticated farm animal building on residential parcels.
A one-story accessory building used or intended for the shelter of domestic
farm animals and/or related feed or other farm animal supportive materials on
any nonagricultural parcel as defined in §
153.005 of this code. The total area of all accessory building shall not exceed
2,500 square feet, subject to the acreage requirements in division (B) below.
Such buildings shall be regulated by divisions (B), (M) and (N) below;
      (4)   Agricultural buildings on rural farms. An accessory building used
or intended for use on a parcel on which rural agriculture, as defined in §
153.005 of this code, is the principal use, and shall be subject to the
following restrictions: No accessory building, except for agricultural
buildings on rural farms, shall be more than 20 feet in height, nor have a roof
pitch which exceeds that of the principal building. On any lot of less than
five acres no accessory building shall exceed the square footage of the
principal structure;
      (5)   Existing agricultural buildings. Existing agricultural buildings at
the time of a subdivision are exempt from the limits on the maximum square
footage and on the total number of accessory buildings imposed by division (B)
below. Any additions to or expansions of accessory buildings shall thereafter
be subject to requirements of this subchapter with the existing agricultural
buildings being included in both the square footage and building number
calculations; and
      (6)   Temporary accessory dwelling unit. A temporary dwelling unit that
is accessory to a residential principal structure, and that can be easily
removed. A temporary accessory dwelling unit requires an administrative permit.
Such permit shall expire 180 days from the date of issuance, unless there is
specific ordinance language setting out a longer timeframe, and may be renewed
for one additional 180-day period.
   (B)   Permitted uses of accessory buildings are as follows.
 
Agricultural building on rural A                    R                    VHS
farm of:
Maximum square footage         ***                  ***                  N
More than 10 but less than 20
acres:
   Permit required          Admin                Admin                N
Over 20 acres:
   Permit required          Admin/farm site plan Admin/farm site plan N
 
Detached domesticated farm animal A                  R                  VHS
building on residential parcels:
Maximum number of stories         1 story*           1 story*           N****
Maximum square footage            ***                ***                N****
Permit required                   Admin and building Admin and building N****
 
Detached residential accessory A                  R                  VHS
building:
Maximum number of stories      1 story*           1 story*           1 story*
Maximum square footage         ***                ***                720
Permit required                Admin and building Admin and building Building
 
Storage or tool shed:     A              R              VHS
Maximum door opening area 28 square feet 28 square feet 28 square feet
Maximum number of stories 1 story*       1 story*       1 story*
Maximum roof height       12 feet        12 feet        12 feet
Maximum square footage    160            160            160
Permit required           Building       Building       Building
 
 
* See Ch. 11, § 1102 of the International Building Code (IBC)
                    1 or 2 on parcels of   1 or 2 on parcels of 5
                    10 to 20 acres not to  and more acres. Not to
                    exceed a total of      exceed a total of 2,000
                    2,500 square feet; 2   square feet; 1 on
                    on parcels less than   parcels less than 5
                    10 acres not to exceed acres not to exceed
***Total number of  2,000 square feet.     1,000 square feet.      1 not to
accessory buildings Residential parcels    Agricultural parcels    exceed 720
possible:           shall be regulated by  shall be regulated by   square feet.
                    the RR District.       the A and AP Districts.
                    Permit shall be        Permit shall be
                    recorded. No admin     recorded. No Admin
                    permit required on     permit required on
                    buildings 1,000 square buildings 1,000 square
                    feet or less.          feet or less.
**** See §
153.078(M) of this code regulating the keeping of chickens on parcels less than
5 acres
 
   (C)   A storage or tool shed as defined in division (B) above may be placed
on any lot in addition to the permitted type and number of accessory buildings.
   (D)   No accessory building shall be constructed nor accessory use located
on a lot until a building permit has been issued for the principal building to
which it is accessory.
   (E)   A building shall be considered an integral part of the principal
building if it is located six feet or less from the principal building. The
exterior design and color shall be the same as that of the principal building
and the height shall not exceed the height of the principal structure.
   (F)   No accessory building in a Commercial or Industrial Zoning District
shall exceed the height of the principal building.
   (G)   No accessory building shall be located nearer the front lot line than
the principal building on that lot except by administrative permit as provided
for herein:
      (1)   The proposed accessory building shall be located on a lot of five
or more acres; and
      (2)   The proposed accessory building shall be screened from the public
street and neighboring parcels by existing vegetation that provides year-round
screening and exceeds the height of the accessory building unless the accessory
building is of the same design and material as the principal building and is
located 25 feet or less from the principal building, provided all other
required setbacks are met.
   (H)   Accessory structures located on lake or stream frontage lots may be
located between the public street and the principal structure as regulated by
Ch. 156 of this code and division (G) above.
   (I)   Houseboats and buildings used as shelters from which to fish during
open water months are to be considered accessory structures for purposes of
this chapter. All houseboats used within the city limits for a period of 30
consecutive days or more shall require a administrative permit. The permit
shall show the owner, owner’s address, boat license number, whether the boat is
to be used as a seasonal residence, and if so, for what period of time during
the year, type of sanitary sewage facility, water supply and site plan showing
the method of access to the public street. Each houseboat shall have one off-
street parking space within 400 feet of the docking of the houseboat. No
houseboat shall be used as a permanent residence.
   (J)   Ice fishing houses stored on parcels of land during summer months
shall be considered an accessory storage building equivalent to a storage or
tool shed as defined in division (A)(1) above. Ice fishing houses shall meet
the size limitations of division (B) above and all other provisions of this
chapter, except division (K) below.
   (K)   All accessory buildings shall be securely anchored. Those over 100
square feet shall have a foundation, concrete slab or footings. Nonagricultural
accessory buildings larger than 100 square feet shall require a building permit
regardless of improvement value. Roof and wind loads shall conform to
requirements as contained in the Building Code.
   (L)   All accessory buildings shall meet the minimum required setbacks
contained in §
153.051 of this code for the zoning district in which it is to be located.
   (M)   An administrative permit is required for approval and construction of
a detached domesticated farm animal building on a residential parcel of at
least five acres and up to 20 acres. No detached domesticated farm animal
building shall be permitted on any lot less than five acres. An application for
an administrative permit shall include the following:
      (1)   A dimensioned site plan or aerial photograph illustrating within
500 feet of the proposed structure: All adjacent property owners’ lot lines,
houses, septic systems, fences, wells, animal buildings and other structures
and feed storage areas; all wet marshy areas, drainageways and shorelines; all
proposed grazing areas on the site; all new utility extensions and driveway
access to the proposed building; and all manure storage and disposal areas;
      (2)   A written soil inventory and evaluation from the county’s Soil
Conservation District; and
      (3)   Details of the building floor plan, elevations, materials and color
of structure.
   (N)   Performance standards for detached agricultural buildings and
domesticated farm animal buildings shall include the following:
      (1)   Setbacks. All domestic farm animal buildings, feedlots and manure
storage areas shall be setback as follows:
 
Natural or Human-made Feature                     Minimum Horizontal Setback
Any body of seasonal or year-round surface water, 200 feet
stream or drainageway
Any existing well or residential structure on     200 feet
adjacent or nearby parcels
Any existing well or residential structure on the 50 feet
same parcel
Any property line                                 100 feet
 
      (2)   Slopes. The building, feedlot or manure storage area shall not be
placed on slopes that exceed 13%.
      (3)   Marsh or wetland. No marsh or wetland (as established by the
predominant wetland vegetation and/or soils) shall be utilized for placement of
the proposed structure, feedlot or grazing area.
   (O)   The size of a lean-to shall not exceed 40% of the size of the enclosed
portion of the building to which it is attached.
(Prior Code, § 12-187) (Ord. 09-2010, passed 9-21-2010; Ord. 05-2013, passed 3-
19-2013; Ord. 04-2019, passed 8-20-2019; Ord. 01-2021, passed 2-16-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.078 LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Prohibition of manure deposition without safeguards. No manure or
livestock waste shall be deposited, stored, kept or allowed to remain in or
upon any storage site or feedlot without reasonable safeguards adequate to
prevent the escape or movement of manure or waste or a solution thereof from
the site that may result in pollution of any public waters or any health
hazard. No manure shall be stored within 100 feet of any property line.
   (B)   Pollution control agency standard minimum requirements. All
regulations imposed by the state’s Pollution Control Agency relating to keeping
of livestock shall be adhered to, and the regulations shall be considered the
minimum safeguard necessary to prevent pollution of public waters or creation
of health hazards. New livestock feedlots, poultry lots and other animal lots
are prohibited within the following areas:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet of the ordinary high water mark of any lake, pond
or flowage; or within 300 feet of the landward extent of a floodplain;
      (2)   Within 1,000 feet of the boundary of a public park; and
      (3)   Within one-half mile of the nearest point to a concentration of ten
or more private non-farm residences.
   (C)   Permit required. No feedlot or manure storage site shall be maintained
unless a permit therefore has first been issued by the state’s Pollution
Control Agency and a conditional use permit has been issued by the City
Council. The application for a permit by the owner or other person responsible
for a feedlot or manure storage site shall be accompanied by plans showing the
features and method of operation and construction and existing or proposed
safeguards or disposal systems. The City Council may thereafter issue a
conditional use permit therefore upon the conditions as it shall prescribe to
prevent pollution of any public water or creation of health hazard.
   (D)   Inadequate safeguards. In case the Zoning Administrator shall find
that any manure is stored or kept on any feedlot or storage site without a
safeguard, or that any existing safeguard is inadequate, he or she may order
the owner or other responsible person to immediately remove the manure from the
feedlot or storage site and refrain from further storage or keeping of any
manure thereat unless and until an adequate safeguard is provided as herein
prescribed.
   (E)   Notice concerning loss. It shall be the duty of the owner of a feedlot
or manure storage site or other responsible person in charge thereof to notify
immediately the Zoning Administrator of any loss of stored manure by accident
or otherwise when the loss of stored manure involves a substantial amount that
would be likely to enter any waters of the city. The notice shall be by
telephone or other comparable means and shall be made without delay after the
discovery of the loss. The notification shall include the location and nature
of the loss and other pertinent information as may be available at the time.
   (F)   Acreage requirement.
      (1)   Chickens can be kept on parcels less than five acres as regulated
by division (M) below. A parcel of at least five acres, with a minimum of two
acres of natural pasture having a slope of less than 12% is required for the
keeping of horses, cattle or other domestic farm animals. The allowable density
shall be one animal or its equivalent on each two acres of the land.
      (2)   This requirement does not apply to parcels of 40 acres or more or
to parcels of less than 40 acres that are part of a larger agricultural
operation.
      (3)   In a situation where land is leased, the parcel on which the
residence occupied by the owner of the land is located must be at least five
acres, and the leased land must meet the above requirements and the following
conditions.
         (a)   Leased land shall be contiguous to the parcel upon which the
owner of the horses resides.
         (b)   Farm animals shall have access to the leased land from the
residence parcel.
         (c)   Leased land shall be grazable and fenced.
         (d)   Any lease agreement shall be reviewed annually by the city and
shall be filed with the city. If the lease is cancelled, the city shall be
notified and the applicant shall come into compliance within 30 days.
   (G)   Animal unit. On parcels of five acres or more, one animal unit or its
equivalent is permitted on each two acres of natural pasture land having a
slope of less than 12% and with the ability to feed grazing animals. For the
purposes of these regulations, the following animal unit equivalents apply.
Animal Animal Units
Animal                      Animal Units
1 chicken                   0.01
1 duck                      0.2
1 horse                     1.0
1 mature dairy cow          1.4
1 sheep                     0.1
1 slaughter steer or heifer 1.0
1 swine over 55 pounds      0.4
1 turkey                    0.018
 
   (H)   Determination of conditions. Prior to the issuance of a building
permit for a residential parcel, the Zoning Administrator shall determine if
there are any existing nonconforming animal conditions. If these conditions
exist, building permits shall not be issued until the property is brought into
conformance with the regulations of this chapter.
   (I)   Administrative permit. An administrative permit shall be required
whenever there are more than five horses on a parcel less than 20 acres owned
in fee simple.
   (J)   Fencing. All land used as pasture shall be appropriately fenced to
contain animals.
   (K)   Barns. A barn located on a five acre lot where contiguous land is
leased shall not house more than four horses during the winter months. During
the remainder of the year, horses shall be kept on leased land as well as on
the parcel held in fee title.
   (L)   Nuisance. All livestock shall be managed in a humane manner and
maintained in a manner as not to create a nuisance.
   (M)   Keeping chickens on parcels less than five acres.
      (1)   Permit required.
         (a)   No person shall, on any lot less than five acres anywhere in the
city keep, harbor or maintain care, custody or control over any chicken,
without obtaining a permit issued by the city.
         (b)   The permit shall be subject to all terms and conditions of this
chapter and any additional conditions deemed necessary by the city to protect
the public health, safety and welfare. The necessary permit may be obtained
from the City Administrator’s office.
      (2)   Application. Included with the information required prior to
issuance of the permit must be a scaled diagram that indicates the lot size,
the number of chickens, the location of any chicken coop and run, which
includes the distance from dwelling units on the parcel and abutting properties
and the approximate size of the chicken coop and run. If the coop exceeds 200
square feet, a building permit shall be required.
      (3)   Permit fee. A one-time fee of $20 shall be charged for each permit
and the fee may be amended by resolution.
      (4)   Number allowed. For parcels that are less than one-half acre, the
maximum number of chickens is five. For every additional one-half acre of land
an additional five chickens can be kept. On parcels greater than four and one-
half acres and less than five acres, up to 45 chickens are allowed.
      (5)   Confinement standards. Every person who owns, controls, keeps,
maintains or harbors hen chickens by permit must keep them confined on the
premises at all times. If confinement is in a chicken coop or chicken run, the
following standards apply.
         (a)   Where more than five chickens are being kept, the coop and run
shall be at least 25 feet from any residential structure, wells and any other
premises or wells on any adjacent lots.
         (b)   All chicken coops and runs must be located within the rear yard
subject to the required setbacks for the principal building.
         (c)   Chicken feed must be kept in metal, predator-proof containers.
      (6)   Conditions and inspection. No person who owns, controls, keeps,
maintains or harbors hen chickens shall permit the premises where the hen
chickens are kept to be or remain in an unhealthy, unsanitary or noxious
condition or to permit the premises to be in such condition that noxious odors
are carried to adjacent public or private property.
      (7)   Prohibited uses. The following uses are not allowed as they pertain
to this chapter:
         (a)   Roosters;
         (b)   Breeding, raising or slaughtering of chickens for a commercial
purpose; and
         (c)   Odors, solid matter or noise of such quality or quantity as to
be reasonably objectionable at any point beyond the lot line of the site on
which the use is located.
      (8)   Public nuisance. Failure to comply with this chapter constitutes a
public nuisance and is subject to the revocation of the permit, issuance of
fines and assessment of costs related to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-188) (Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 04-2011, passed
11-15-2011; Ord. 07-2013, passed 6-18-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 93
§ 153.079 AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All agricultural operations in existence upon the effective date
of the ordinance from which this chapter was derived shall be a permitted use.
However, all regulations contained herein and other city ordinances in effect
shall apply to all changes of the agricultural operation that shall cause all
or part of the area to become more intensively used or more residential in
character.
      (2)   Setback and other regulations shall apply to agricultural
operations just as they do to residential developments. Any agricultural
building erected on a farm shall require a farm site plan permit and shall meet
the provisions of this chapter. See §
153.034 of this code.
   (B)   Rural agricultural operations may occur on parcels of ten or more
contiguous acres in A and AP Zoning Districts. Rural agricultural operations
may include the production of farm crops such as vegetables, fruit trees, grain
and other crops and their storage on the farm, as well as for the raising
thereon of farm poultry, domestic pets and domestic farm animals.
   (C)   Rural agricultural operations may include necessary accessory uses for
treating, storing or producing retail farm market products; provided however,
that the operation of any accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the
primary agricultural activity.
   (D)   Suburban agricultural operations may occur on parcels of less than ten
contiguous acres in A, AP or RR Zoning Districts. Suburban agricultural
operations may include the production of crops such as fruit trees, shrubs,
plants and flowers, vegetables and domestic pets, provided the produce is
intended for the use of the residents on the property or sale away from the
property, or for temporary seasonal produce sales that require no roadside
sales stand.
   (E)   Suburban agricultural operations shall not include the raising of
domestic farm animals on parcels of less than five acres, roadside sales
stands, processing or packaging operations or similar uses.
   (F)   The City Council may require any farm operation not located in an A or
AP Zoning District to secure a conditional use permit to continue operations
upon the following conditions:
      (1)   A nuisance on a farm is determined to be detrimental to the health
and safety of adjoining property owners; and
      (2)   The farm operations are so intensive as to constitute an industrial
type use consisting of the compounding, processing and packaging of products
for wholesale or retail trade and further, that these operations may tend to
become a permanent industrial type operation that cannot be terminated as can a
normal farming operation. Excessive trucking operations shall be considered an
intensive use.
(Prior Code, § 12-189)
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 93
§ 153.080 FENCES.
   (A)   Fences may be permitted in all yards subject to the following.
      (1)   Solid walls in excess of four feet above adjacent ground grades
shall be prohibited.
      (2)   That side of the fence considered to be the face (finished side as
opposed to structural supports) shall face abutting property.
      (3)   Fences over six feet in height from the finished grade shall
require a building permit in addition to any other required permits.
      (4)   No fences shall be permitted on public rights-of-way.
      (5)   All fences shall be maintained and kept in good repair.
      (6)   Barbed wire and razor wire fencing are prohibited, except in the
case of:
         (a)   Agricultural uses; and
         (b)   In the industrial zone at the top of a security fence if the
height of the barbed wire is not less than six feet from grade and the fence is
located not less than 100 feet from a residence.
   (B)   Fences may be permitted along property lines subject to the following.
      (1)   Fences may be placed along property lines provided no physical
damage of any kind results to abutting property.
      (2)   Fences on commercial and industrial property in the I-1A and I-1B
Zoning Districts may be erected on the lot line to a height of six feet or to a
height of eight feet with a security arm for barbed wire.
      (3)   Fences along any lot lines or within any building setback lines as
defined in §
153.005 of this code may be a maximum of six feet in height, except as provided
in division (B)(5) below. All fences parallel to any road shall be set back a
minimum of 20 feet from the road right-of-way for line-of-sight safety reasons.
All fences which exceed four feet in height and which are parallel to any road
shall be screened in accordance with division (B)(8) below.
      (4)   Shall the rear lot line of a lot be common with the side lot line
of an abutting lot, that portion of the rear lot line equal to the required
front yard of the abutting lot shall not be fenced to a height of more than
four feet.
      (5)   All fences on lake lots shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet from
the ordinary high water mark. Fences along interior lot lines between the 20-
foot setback from the ordinary high water mark and the required building
setback from the ordinary high water mark shall not exceed four feet in height.
      (6)   Fences located within the buildable area of a lot or eight feet or
more from the rear lot line may be up to eight feet in height.
      (7)   Where the property line is not clearly defined, a certificate of
survey may be required by the Zoning Administrator to establish the property
line.
      (8)   The screening required in this section shall consist of forms of
landscaping (plant materials) so as to block direct visual access to the fence
from the street.
(Prior Code, § 12-190) (Ord. 06-2020, passed 7-21-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.081 SCREENING.
   (A)   Screening shall be required in all zoning districts where:
      (1)   Any off-street parking area contains more than four parking spaces
and is within 30 feet of an adjoining Residential Zoning District; and
      (2)   The driveway to a parking area of more than six parking spaces is
within 15 feet of an adjoining residential use or zoning district.
   (B)   Where any business or industrial use (structure, parking or storage)
is adjacent to property zoned for residential use, that business or industry
shall provide screening along the boundary of the residential property.
Screening shall also be provided where a business, parking lot or industry is
across the street from a Residential Zoning District, but not on the side of a
business or industry considered to be the front.
   (C)   All exterior storage shall be screened except materials and equipment
currently being used for construction on the premises and exterior storage on
farms, except those required to do so on an individual basis by action of the
City Council.
   (D)   The screening required in this section shall mean the installation of
a solid wooden fence of a required height, and/or plantings, and/or berms. All
plantings used as screening shall be a minimum of six feet in height when
planted, shall be of a variety that the Soil and Water Conservation District
recommends as suitable for the site, and shall be a variety which is fast
growing and non-deciduous. In addition, earth berms shall be considered to be
screening. Any berm required as a condition of a conditional use permit shall
be high enough to prevent visual access to the structure it is screening. Berms
may be required to have plantings, watering systems to support life for the
plants, fences or other screening. All screening of whatever type shall provide
90% screening of the structure or facility being screened.
(Prior Code, § 12-191)
§ 153.082 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Landscaping on a lot shall consist of a finished grade and a soil
retention cover such as sod, seed and mulch, plantings or as may be required by
the Zoning Administrator to protect the soil and aesthetic values on the lot
and adjacent property.
   (B)   In all zoning districts, all developed uses shall provide landscaping
from the edge of the street pavement to the street right-of-way lines. This
landscaped yard shall be kept clear of all structures, exterior storage and
off-street parking.
   (C)   No trees or shrubs shall be planted within a public right-of-way
except as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   The grassy area on the public right-of-way adjoining the traveled
portion of the city streets in the old village is designated as a boulevard and
thus may be planted and maintained by the abutting property owner subject to
the following conditions.
      (1)   Nothing shall be planted or allowed to grow in a manner as to
obscure signage or impede vision on the traveled portion of the street.
      (2)   All boulevards shall be maintained by the abutting property owner
in a neat and orderly fashion consistent with the atmosphere of the old
village.
      (3)   The city shall remain the sole owner of the boulevard area.
      (4)   The city reserves the right to enter on the boulevard for any
lawful purpose including, but not limited to, mowing, trimming, snow plowing or
any street or utility maintenance.
      (5)   The city reserves the right to reclaim any boulevard area and
remove any plantings if, in the sole discretion of the city, the boulevard area
is needed for any lawful purpose including, but not limited to, street
widening, parking or utility easements.
   (E)   Landscaping shall be provided and maintained on all required front and
side yards on all developed lots except where pavement or crushed stone is used
for walkways or driveways.
(Prior Code, § 12-192)
§ 153.083 REASONABLE MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   In all zoning districts, all structures, landscaping and fences shall be
reasonably maintained so as to avoid health and safety hazards and prevent a
degradation in the value of adjacent property.
(Prior Code, § 12-193)
§ 153.084 EXTERIOR STORAGE.
   (A)   In all zoning districts except for the uses permitted in the MS
District, only personal property of the property owner or tenant shall be
stored on the premises. This property shall be stored within a building or
fully screened so as not to be visible from adjoining properties and public
places and streets, except for the following. Laundry drying and recreational
equipment, construction and landscaping materials and equipment currently
(within a period of three months, which may be extended to coincide with the
timeline of a building permit or a grading permit) being used on the premises,
agricultural equipment and materials if these are used or intended for use on
the premises; off-street parking of licensed passenger automobiles, pick-up
trucks, boats and trailers are permissible if stored more than ten feet from
any property line, except as regulated by division (B) below. Off-street
parking of recreational vehicles is allowed if stored more than ten feet from
any property line and behind the front building line of the principal
structure. A recreational vehicle can be stored in front of the principal
structure in the Ag and RR Zones if it meets the front yard setback and is
fully screened year-round from neighboring property and the public street.
Existing uses shall comply with this provision within 12 months following
enactment of the ordinance from which this chapter was derived.
   (B)   In the VHS-R and VHS-C Zoning Districts, only one of the following
items may be stored on any residential premises: recreational vehicle, all-
terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile, boat, trailer not occupied as living
quarters or similar item. This item may not be more than 25 feet in length and
shall be stored behind the front building line of the principal structure at
least ten feet from each lot line.
   (C)   In Nonresidential Zoning Districts, exterior storage of personal
property may be permitted by conditional use permit provided any the property
is so stored for purposes relating to a use of the property permitted by this
chapter and shall not be contrary to the intent and purposes of this chapter.
   (D)   In all zoning districts, all waste, refuse or garbage shall be kept in
an enclosed building or properly contained in a container designed for these
purposes. The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping the land
free of refuse and noxious weeds. Existing uses shall comply with this
provision within 90 days following enactment of the ordinance from which this
chapter was derived.
   (E)   Unlicensed passenger vehicles and trucks shall not be parked on any
property for a period exceeding seven days. All exterior storage not included
as a permitted accessory use, a permitted use or included as part of a
conditional use permit or otherwise permitted by provisions of this chapter
shall be considered to be refuse.
   (F)   Use of shipping containers for storage.
      (1)   A shipping container can be used only for temporary storage.
      (2)   A shipping container can be stored in the driveway or other
location at least ten feet from all property lines.
      (3)   A shipping container cannot remain on a property for more than 180
days, unless it is demonstrated that the storage of specific items is necessary
due to the timing of the construction of a permanent building to which the
stored items are to be moved; in which case the shipping container can remain
for up to an additional 180 days.
      (4)   A shipping container may be used for a public works use in
conjunction with a public works facility on a temporary or permanent basis.
(Prior Code, § 12-194) (Ord. 1997-19, passed 7-15-1997; Ord. 11-2023, passed
10-17-2023) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.085 LIGHTING, LIGHTING FIXTURES AND GLARE.
   (A)   In all zoning districts, any lighting used to illuminate an off-street
parking area, or other structure or area, shall be arranged to deflect light
away from any adjoining Residential Zoning Districts or from the public
streets. Direct or sky-reflected glare, whether from floodlights or from high
temperature processes such as combustion or welding shall not be directed onto
any adjoining property. The source of light shall be hooded or controlled so as
not to light adjacent property. Bare light bulbs shall not be permitted in view
of adjacent property or public rights-of-way. No light or combination of lights
that cast light on a public street shall exceed one foot-candle meter reading
as measured from the centerline of the street nor shall any light or
combination of lights that cast light on residential property exceed 0.4 foot-
candles.
   (B)   Lighting standards shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 12-195) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.086 PARKING.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Existing off-street parking spaces and loading spaces upon the
effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter was derived shall not
be reduced in number unless the number exceeds the requirements set forth
herein for a similar use.
      (2)   Benches in places of public assembly, in stadiums, sport arenas,
churches and other places of public assembly, in which patrons or spectators
occupy benches, pews or other similar seating facilities, each 22 inches of the
seating shall be counted as one seat for the purpose of determining
requirements for off-street parking facilities under this chapter.
      (3)   Each parking space shall not be less than nine feet wide and 18
feet in length exclusive of an adequately designed system of access drives.
Parking lots that separate vehicles based on size may be designed with parking
spaces less than or greater than nine feet wide and 18 feet deep depending upon
the size of the vehicle as long as adequate space is provided for easy and safe
ingress and egress for the vehicle. Each parking space shall be served by an
access aisle at least 24 feet in width. Parking spaces for semi-trailers shall
be a minimum length of 50 feet. Proposed reductions in or additions to the
parking space size must be submitted in a dimensioned site plan with the size
of vehicle to use parking spaces indicated to the Zoning Administrator for
review and approval. Signs specifying the vehicle size to use the parking space
may be required by the Zoning Administrator. Parking spaces for vehicles used
by disabled persons shall not be less than 12 feet wide and 20 feet long.
      (4)   Off-street parking facilities accessory to residential uses shall
be utilized solely for the parking of passenger vehicles and/or one truck not
to exceed 9,000 pounds gross capacity for each dwelling unit. Under no
circumstances shall required parking facilities accessory to residential
structures be used for the storage of commercial vehicles or for the parking of
vehicles belonging to the employees, owners, tenants or customers of nearby
business or manufacturing establishments, provided however, that the parking of
not more than three commercial vehicles in a single garage not to exceed 1,500
square feet in gross area may be permitted by a conditional use permit if
parking the vehicles is accessory to a residential use by the owner of the
vehicles and the business in which they are used. The conditional use permit
may be issued only for a parcel not less than 20 acres in size, zoned A or AP
and conditioned upon no exterior storage, no on-site sales and no office open
to the public. The permit shall state that the Council reserves the right to
revoke the permit when the use becomes incompatible with adjacent land uses or
surrounding parcels become platted. Typical uses which may be eligible for a
conditional use permit include contractor, electrician, painter, plumber,
roofer and septic system pumper and servicer.
      (5)   Off-street parking facilities for a combination of mixed buildings,
structures or uses may be provided collectively in any MS, C or I Zoning
District in which separate parking facilities for each separate building,
structure or use would be required, provided that the total number of spaces
provided shall equal the sum of the separate requirements of each use during
any peak hour parking period.
      (6)   When required accessory off-street parking facilities are provided
elsewhere than on the lot the principal use served is located, they shall be in
the same ownership or control, either by deed or long-term lease, as the
property occupied by the principal use, the owner of the principal use shall
file a recordable document with the County Recorder requiring the owner and his
or her heirs and assigns to maintain the required number of off-street parking
spaces during the existence of the principal use, and shall be located within
the same zoning district as the principal use.
      (7)   Required off-street parking space in any zoning district shall not
be utilized for open storage of goods, or for the storage of vehicles that are
inoperable, for sale or for rent.
   (B)   Design and maintenance of off-street parking areas.
      (1)   Parking areas shall be designed so as to provide adequate means of
access to a public alley or street. In no case shall a driveway exceed 32 feet
in width unless an administrative permit has been obtained approving the larger
width. Driveway access shall be so located as to cause the least interference
with traffic movement. There shall be only one driveway access for each
residential lot, except by administrative permit.
      (2)   When the calculation of the number of off-street parking spaces
required results in a fraction, the fraction shall require a full space.
      (3)   No signs shall be located in any parking area except as necessary
for orderly operation of traffic movement and the signs shall not be a part of
the permitted advertising space.
      (4)   Off-street parking areas shall be improved with a durable and
dustless surface. These areas shall be so graded and drained as to dispose of
all surface water accumulation within the parking area. Durable and dustless
surface may include crushed rock and similar treatment for parking accessory to
residential structures; all other uses shall utilize asphalt, concrete or a
reasonable substitute surface as approved by the City Engineer. All surfacing
must be completed prior to occupancy of the structure unless other arrangements
have been made with the city. Parking areas for less than three vehicles shall
be exempt.
      (5)   Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area shall be
so arranged so it is not directly visible from the adjoining property and in a
downward vertical direction.
      (6)   All open off-street parking areas designed to have head-in parking
along the property line shall provide a bumper curb or guard not less than ten
feet from the property line. When the area is for six or more spaces, screening
not over four feet in height shall be erected along the street side of the
parking area and grass or planting shall occupy the space between the screening
and the street.
      (7)   Each parking space in a lot with a nonporous surface shall be
delineated with four-inch wide stripes painted the entire length of the parking
space.
      (8)   Parking bays that do not head into a lawn area at least six feet
wide and parking bays designed with angle parking of less than 90 degrees shall
be defined with vertical markers at each end of the bay. Vertical markers may
include concrete curbing, bermed planting islands with six-inch concrete
curbing, lighting standards, sign posts, bumper guards at least three feet high
or other devices approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (9)   When a required off-street parking space for six or more cars is
located adjacent to a residential lot, a fence or screen not less than four
feet in height shall be erected along the side and/or rear of the parking area
adjacent to the residential lot or zoning district.
      (10)   All accessory off-street parking facilities required herein shall
be located as follows.
         (a)   Spaces accessory to one- and two-family dwellings shall be on
the same lot as the principal use served.
         (b)   Spaces accessory to uses located in a MS, C or I Zoning District
shall be within 800 feet of a main entrance to the principal building served
and in the same zoning district. Parking as required by the Building Code for
disabled persons shall be provided.
         (c)   There shall be no off-street parking space within ten feet of
any street right-of-way.
         (d)   No off-street parking area shall be located closer than ten feet
from any lot line, except when adjoining an existing parking area on the
adjacent lot in any MS, C and I Zoning Districts.
         (e)   No parking space shall be closer than ten feet to any building.
      (11)   All off-street parking spaces shall have access from driveways and
not directly from the public street.
      (12)   Fire access lanes shall be provided as required by the Building
Code or Fire Code.
      (13)   It shall be the joint responsibility of the operator and the owner
of the principal use or building to reasonably maintain the parking space,
accessways, landscaping and required fences.
   (C)   Truck parking in residential areas. No motor vehicle over one-ton
capacity bearing a commercial license and no commercially licensed trailer
shall be parked or stored in a Residential Zoning District except when loading,
unloading or rendering a service or as provided in division (A)(4) above.
   (D)   Parking limited. Both off-street and on-street parking in residential
areas shall be limited to the use of the residents and their guests, except for
short-term parking of six or fewer hours.
   (E)   Reduction of number. Off-street parking spaces shall not be reduced in
number unless the number exceeds the requirements set forth herein.
   (F)   Number required. Off-street parking spaces required shall be as
follows:
Use Requirements
Use                                          Requirements
                                             1 space for each 3 seats or for
Churches and other places of assembly        each 5 feet of pew length, based
                                             upon maximum design capacity
                                             1 space for each 2 employees on
Industrial, warehouse, storage, whole-sale,  maximum shift or 1 for each 2,000
furniture store, handling of bulk goods      square feet of gross floor area,
                                             whichever is larger
                                             1.5 spaces per slip plus 1 space
Marinas                                      per employee and a minimum of 20
                                             12-foot by 25-foot trailer stalls
Medical or dental clinic                     6 spaces per doctor or dentist
Offices                                      3 spaces for each 1,000 square
                                             feet gross floor area
One- and two-family residences               2 spaces per dwelling unit but not
                                             to exceed 4 per unit
Restaurants, cafés, bars, taverns or supper 1 space for each 2.5 seats, based
clubs                                        on capacity design
Retail store                                 4.5 spaces for each 1,000 square
                                             feet of gross floor area
                                             1 space for each 6 beds, for which
Sanitarium, convalescent home rest home,     accommodations are offered, plus 1
nursing home or institution                  space for each 2 employees on
                                             maximum shift
Schools: Elementary and junior high          3 spaces for each classroom
                                             1 space for each 4 students based
Schools: High school through college         upon design capacity plus 3
                                             additional spaces for each
                                             classroom
Uses not specifically noted                  As determined by the Planning
                                             Commission
 
(Prior Code, § 12-196) (Ord. 1997-19, 7-15-1997; Ord. 02-2008, passed 1-9-2008;
Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic and parking rules, see
Ch. 70
§ 153.087 OFF-STREET LOADING AREAS.
   (A)   Location. All required loading berths shall be off-street and shall be
located on the same lot as the building or use to be served. A loading berth
shall be located at least 25 feet from the intersection of two street rights-
of-way and at least 50 feet from a Residential Zoning District, unless within a
building. Loading berths shall be located to the rear of the structure.
   (B)   Size. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a required loading
berth shall be not less than 12 feet in width, 50 feet in length and 14 feet in
height, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space.
   (C)   Access. Each required loading berth shall be located with appropriate
means of vehicular access to a street or public alley in a manner that shall
least interfere with traffic.
   (D)   Surfacing. All loading berths and accessways shall be improved with a
hard surface to control the dust and drainage before occupancy of the building.
   (E)   Accessory use. Any space allocated as a loading berth or maneuvering
area so as to comply with the terms of this chapter shall not be used for the
storage of goods, inoperable vehicles or be included as a part of the space
requirements to meet the off-street parking area.
   (F)   Deliveries. Any structure erected or substantially altered for a use
that requires the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks
or similar vehicles, shall provide off-street loading space as required for a
new structure.
(Prior Code, § 12-197)
§ 153.088 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   (1)   The traffic generated by any use shall be controlled so as to
prevent:
         (a)   Congestion of the public streets;
         (b)   Traffic hazards; and
         (c)   Excessive traffic through residential areas, particularly truck
traffic.
      (2)   Internal traffic shall be so regulated as to ensure its safe and
orderly flow. Traffic into and out of commercial and industrial areas shall in
all cases be forward moving with no backing into streets.
   (B)   On any corner lot, nothing shall be placed or allowed to grow in a
manner as to impede vision between a height of two and one-half and ten feet
above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets within 15 feet of the
intersecting street right-of-way lines. This restriction shall also apply to
the planting of crops and to yard grades that result in elevations that impede
vision within 15 feet of any intersecting right-of-way lines.
(Prior Code, § 12-198) Penalty, see §
153.999
Cross-reference:
   Traffic and parking rules, see
Ch. 70
§ 153.089 FALLOUT SHELTERS.
   Fallout shelters may be permitted in any district subject to the yard
regulations of the zoning district. The shelters may contain or be contained in
other structures or be constructed separately, and in addition to shelter use,
may be used for any use permitted in the district, subject to the district
regulations on the use.
(Prior Code, § 12-199)
§ 153.090 GUESTHOUSES.
   Guesthouses shall not be permitted in any zoning district.
(Prior Code, § 12-200) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.091 DWELLING UNITS IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Industrial Districts. A dwelling unit for a watchman, alone or with
family, shall be considered an accessory use and shall conform to all
applicable regulations for the zoning district in which it is located, except
as herein modified.
      (1)   No detached dwelling unit shall be permitted in the Industrial
Zoning District.
      (2)   A dwelling unit in an industrial building shall not contain more
than one bedroom.
      (3)   A dwelling unit that is part of the principal building shall be
provided with two exits; one shall be a direct outside exit.
      (4)   All buildings shall conform to the building code and applicable
fire codes.
   (B)   VHS-C District. The following are performance standards for dwelling
units in a commercial building in the VHS-C District.
      (1)   A dwelling unit in the VHS District located in a commercial
structure may be located above the main floor and in the rear of the main
floor, but shall not occupy the front half of the ground floor or be located in
the basement.
      (2)   A maximum of two dwelling units are allowed in a commercial
building in the VHS-C District.
      (3)   A dwelling unit in a commercial building shall not contain more
than two bedrooms.
      (4)   An office use is allowed to be located above the main floor of a
commercial building.
      (5)   A dwelling unit cannot be located in a commercial building unless
there is a commercial use on the main floor
      (6)   A minimum of one off-street parking space shall be provided for
each dwelling unit in a commercial building.
      (7)   A dwelling unit in a commercial building shall require a
conditional use permit.
      (8)   The approval of a dwelling unit in a commercial building shall be
subject to sufficient capacity in the municipal wastewater treatment facility.
Each dwelling unit shall be considered one sewer unit.
      (9)   If a commercial building is not connected to the municipal sanitary
sewer system, the addition of a residential unit to the building shall trigger
the requirement to connect to the sanitary sewer system within 60 days, subject
to weather conditions.
      (10)   A dwelling unit that is part of the principal building shall meet
building and fire code requirements for exits.
      (11)   A commercial building in which a dwelling unit is located shall
conform to the building code and applicable fire codes on an on-going basis.
(Prior Code, § 12-201) (Ord. 1997-21, passed 12-15-1998; Ord. 02-2023, passed
3-21-2023) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.092 RADIATION AND ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No activities shall be permitted that emit dangerous radioactivity beyond
enclosed areas. There shall be no electrical disturbance (except from domestic
household appliances) adversely affecting the operation of ordinary business or
household equipment and appliances. Any omissions are hereby declared a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 12-202) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.093 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   All uses associated with the bulk storage of over 500 gallons of oil,
gasoline, liquid fertilizer, chemicals and similar liquids, except fuel oil
stored for residential use on residential property, shall require a conditional
use permit in order that the city may have the assurance that fire, explosion
or water or soil contamination hazards are not present that would be
detrimental to the public health, safety and general welfare. All existing,
above ground liquid storage tanks having a capacity in excess of 500 gallons
shall secure a conditional use permit within 12 months following enactment of
the ordinance from which this chapter was derived. Suitably sealed diking
capable of holding a leakage capacity equal to 115% of the tank capacity shall
be required around these tanks. Any existing storage tank that, in the opinion
of the Planning Commission, constitutes a hazard to the public safety, shall
discontinue operations within 90 days following notification by the Zoning
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 12-203)
§ 153.094 EXPLOSIVES.
   No activities involving the commercial storage, use or manufacture of
materials or products that could decompose by detonation shall be permitted
except as are specifically permitted by the Council. These materials shall
include but not be confined to all primary explosives such as lead azide and
mercury fulminate, all high explosives and boosters such as TNT, tetryl and
nitrates, propellants and components thereof such as nitrocellulose, black
powder and nitroglycerine, blasting explosives such as dynamite and nuclear
fuel and reactor elements such as uranium 235 and plutonium.
(Prior Code, § 12-204)
§ 153.095 ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION.
   (A)   All uses, buildings and structures shall conform to the regulations of
the state’s Pollution Control Agency relating to air, water, noise and solid
wastes.
   (B)   No use shall be permitted that shall cause or result in the pollution
of any tributary of the St. Croix River, any lake, stream, groundwater or other
body of water in the city.
   (C)   Chemical insecticides or herbicides shall be stored, handled, utilized
and disposed of according to the standards set forth by the state’s Pollution
Control Agency.
(Prior Code, § 12-205)
§ 153.096 NUISANCES.
   (A)   No odors, vibration, noise, smoke, air pollution, liquid or solid
wastes, heat, glare, dust or other sensory irritations or health hazards shall
be permitted in any zoning district in excess of the minimum standards as set
forth in this section.
   (B)   Any violation of these standards is hereby declared a nuisance. The
minimum standards shall be as follows.
      (1)   Odors. Any use shall be so operated as to prevent the emission of
odorous or solid matter of such quality or quantity as to be reasonably
objectionable at any point beyond the lot line of the site on which the use is
located, except as regulated by §§
153.058 and 153.059 of this code regulating agricultural operations.
      (2)   Vibrations. The following vibrations are prohibited:
         (a)   Any vibration discernible beyond the property line to the human
sense of feeling for three minutes or more duration in any one hour; and
         (b)   Any vibration resulting in any combination of amplitudes and
frequencies beyond the safe range of the most current standards of the United
States Bureau of Mines on any structure.
      (3)   Toxic and noxious matter. Any use shall be so operated as not to
discharge across the boundaries of the lot or through percolation into the
atmosphere or the subsoil beyond the boundaries of the lot wherein such use is
located toxic or noxious matter in such concentration as to be detrimental to
or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare or cause injury or
damage to property or business.
      (4)   Air pollution. Any use shall be so operated as to control emission
of smoke or particulate matter to the degree that it is not detrimental to or
shall endanger the public health, safety, comfort or general welfare.
      (5)   Animals. Any building in which domestic farm animals are kept shall
be a minimum distance of 100 feet from all lot lines.
   (C)   Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the minimum
standards of the Pollution Control Agency for noise, air and water pollution
and glare, these shall be the minimum standards for the purposes of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 12-206)
   (D)   It shall be a nuisance for any person to store or keep any vehicle of
a type requiring a license to operate on the public highway, but without a
current license attached thereto, whether such vehicle is dismantled or not,
outside of an enclosed building in any zoning district.
   (E)   Creating or maintaining a junkyard or vehicle dismantling yard shall
be a nuisance and shall be prohibited.
   (F)   The following are declared to be nuisances endangering public health:
      (1)   Causing or suffering the effluent from any cesspool, septic tank,
drainfield or human sewage disposal system to discharge upon the surface of the
ground, or dumping the contents thereof at any place except as authorized by
the state’s Pollution Control Agency;
      (2)   Causing or suffering the pollution of any public well or cistern,
stream or lake, canal or body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other
substances; and
      (3)   Causing or suffering carcasses of animals to not be buried or
destroyed or otherwise disposed of within 24 hours after death.
   (G)   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting the public peace
and safety:
      (1)   The placing or throwing on any street, alley, road, highway,
sidewalk or other public property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other
nuisances that may injure any person or animal or may cause damage to any
pneumatic tire when passing over the same; and
      (2)   The ownership, possession or control of any unused refrigerator or
other container, with doors that fasten automatically when closed, of
sufficient size to retain any person and that is exposed and accessible to the
public without having the doors, lids, hinges or latches removed or having
locks to prevent access by the public.
(Prior Code, § 12-207)
   (H)   For abatement information, see
Chapter 90 of this code of ordinances.
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.097 NOISE.
   (A)   Definitions. Except as provided in this section, words or phrases used
in this section and defined in the rules of the state’s Pollution Control
Agency Noise Section, Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, shall have the meanings given in
those rules.
      A-WEIGHTED. A specific weighting of the sound pressure level for the
purpose of determining the human response to sound. The specific weighting
characteristics and tolerances are those given in American National Standards
Institute S1.4-1983, § 5.1.
      CUT-OUT or BYPASS. A mechanism which varies the exhaust system gas flow
so as to discharge the exhaust gas and acoustic energy to the atmosphere
without passing through the entire length of the system including all exhaust
system sound attenuation components.
      dB(A). A unit of sound level expressed in decibels (dB) and A-weighted.
      EXHAUST SYSTEM. A combination of components which provides an enclosed
flow of exhaust gas from engine parts to the atmosphere.
      HOLIDAY. Any day fixed by the United States or by state law for
suspension of business in whole or in part.
      L10. The sound level, expressed in dB(A) which is exceeded 10% of the
time for a one-hour period, as measured by test procedures approved by the
director of the MPCA.
      L50. The sound level, expressed in dB(A) which is exceeded 50% of the
time for a one-hour period, as measured by test procedures approved by the
director of the MPCA.
      MPCA. The state’s Pollution Control Agency.
      NOISE. Any sound not occurring in the natural environment, including but
not limited to, sounds emanating from airways, roadways, waterways, industrial,
commercial and residential sources.
      NOISE CONTROL OFFICER. The Zoning Administrator or other person appointed
by the City Council.
      NOISE POLLUTION. The presence of any noise or combination of noises in
the quantity, at these levels, of the nature and duration, or under conditions
as could potentially be injurious to human health, safety or welfare; or to
animal life; or could interfere unreasonably with the enjoyment of life or
property.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, trustee,
association, the state and its agencies and subdivision or any body of persons
whether incorporated or not. With respect to acts prohibited or required
herein, person shall include employees and licensees.
   (B)   General noise standard.
      (1)   Incorporation by reference. The MPCA Noise Rule, Minn. Rules parts
7030.0010 through 7030.0080, and all amendments thereof and supplements thereto
are hereby referred to, adopted, incorporated by reference and made a part of
this chapter. A current copy shall be available for public inspection through
the City Administrator’s office.
      (2)   Maximum noise levels by receiving land use districts. No person
shall operate or cause or permit to be operated any source of noise in a manner
as to create a noise level outdoors exceeding the dB limit set in Table 1 for
the receiving land use district specified.
 
Table 1. Sound Levels by Receiving Land Use Districts
                        Day                       Night
                        (7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.) (10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.)
Commercial (VHS-C)      70  65                    70  65
Industrial              80  75                    80  75
Land Use Districts      L10 L50                   L10 L50
Residential (RR, VHS-R) 65  60                    55  50
 
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The levels prescribed in division (B)(2) above do not apply to
noise originating on public streets and alleys but this noise shall be subject
to other ordinances.
      (2)   The levels prescribed above do not apply to farm machinery being
operated by a person actively engaged in productive agricultural operations
provided the machinery is not stationary.
   (D)   Noises prohibited.
      (1)   Horns, audible signaling devices and the like. No person shall
sound any signaling device on any vehicle except as a warning of danger.
      (2)   Engine exhausts. No person shall discharge the exhaust or permit
the discharge of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal
combustion engine, motor boat, motor vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle,
snowmobile or any recreational device except through a muffler or other device
that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises therefrom and complies with
all applicable state laws, regulations and this chapter. No exhaust system on
any engine shall be modified, altered or repaired in any manner, including the
use of a muffler cut-out or bypass, that shall amplify or otherwise increase
noise above that emitted by the device as originally equipped.
      (3)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems and the like. No person shall
use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or other device for
production or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly audible manner
so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person nearby. Operation
of any set, instrument, phonograph, machine or other device between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner as to be plainly audible at the
property line of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a
distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a structure or building,
shall be prima facie evidence of violation of this section.
      (4)   Social gatherings. No person shall participate in any party or
other gathering of people giving rise to noise which disturbs the peace, quiet
or repose of the occupants of adjoining or other property. When a police
officer determines that a gathering is creating a noise disturbance, the
officer shall order all persons present, other than the owner or tenant of the
premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disperse immediately. No person
shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a police officer to do so. Every
owner or tenant of the premises who has knowledge of the disturbance shall
cooperate with police officers and shall make every reasonable effort to see
that the disturbance is abated.
      (5)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers for advertising and the like. No person
shall operate or permit the use or operation of any loudspeaker, sound
amplifier or other device for the production or reproduction of sound on a
street or other public place for the purpose of commercial advertising or
attracting the attention of the public for any purpose whatsoever.
      (6)   Schools, churches and the like. No person shall create any
excessive noise on a street, alley or public grounds adjacent to any school,
institution of learning, church or other place of worship.
   (E)   Hourly restriction on certain operations.
      (1)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a garden or lawn
tractor, power lawn mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden
tiller, edger, power device for bug eradication, drill or other similar
domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this provision.
      (2)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or refuse
in any Residential District except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m., Monday through Saturday.
      (3)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any electric, diesel or gas-
powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m.
      (4)   Exception for emergency work.
         (a)   Noise created exclusively in the performance of emergency work
to preserve the public health, safety or welfare or in the performance of
emergency work necessary to restore public service or eliminate a public hazard
shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter for a period not to exceed
48 hours after the work is commenced.
         (b)   Persons responsible for the work shall inform the noise control
officer of the need to initiate the work or, if the work is commenced during
non-business hours of the city, at the beginning of business hours of the first
business day thereafter.
         (c)   Any person responsible for emergency work shall take all
reasonable actions to minimize the amount of noise and the duration thereof.
   (G)   Powers and duties of noise control officer.
      (1)   Administering officer. The noise control program established by
this chapter shall be administered by the noise control officer.
      (2)   Testing procedures. The noise control officer shall adopt
guidelines establishing the test procedures and instrumentation used in
enforcing the provisions of this section. A copy of these guidelines shall be
kept in the office of the City Administrator and shall be available to the
public for reference during business hours.
      (3)   Investigation and inspection. The noise control officer, with the
assistance of other professional agencies or persons as may be necessary, shall
conduct all research monitoring and other studies related to sound as are
necessary in order to enforce this chapter and shall make all investigations
and inspections in accordance with law as required in applying the provisions
of this chapter.
      (4)   Noise impact statements. The noise control officer may require any
person applying to the city for a change in zoning classification, permit,
license for any structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or
project that may be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise
impact statement on a form prescribed by the officer. Each statement shall be
reviewed to ascertain whether the granting of the change in zoning
classification, permit or license would result in the violation of any
provision of this chapter. Reviews of noise impact statements shall be made by
the zoning committee, Planning Commission if appropriate, and recommendations
shall be made to the City Council.
      (5)   Other powers and duties. The noise control officer shall exercise
other powers and perform other duties as are reasonable and necessary to
enforce the provisions of this section.
   (H)   Enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   When the noise control officer, after appropriate testing has been
done, determines that a noise exceeds the maximum sound level permitted under
division (B) above, the noise control officer shall give written notice of the
violation to the owner or occupant of the premises where the noise originates,
and order this person to correct or remove each specified violation within a
reasonable time as is prescribed in the notice.
      (2)   In all other cases, the noise control officer or the city’s law
enforcement officer may demand immediate termination of the excessive noise.
Failure to adhere to this demand would subject the violator to appropriate
criminal enforcement procedure.
(Prior Code, § 12-208) Penalty, see §
153.999
Cross-reference:
   Environment, see
Ch. 91
Statutory reference:
   Horns, sirens, see M.S. § 169.68
§ 153.098 VISUAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   It is hereby affirmed as essential public policy that the appearance
of this city is a proper matter for public concern and that all open spaces,
buildings, signs, plantings, surfaces and structures which may be seen from the
public ways and waterbodies are subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Plan as adopted clearly states that scenic views,
tree cover, slopes and other features of the natural environment are a city
concern, therefore, a conditional or conditional use permit for any new use or
development may include conditions affecting building setbacks, restrictions on
removal of trees and other vegetation, placement and type of driveway access
and other conditions on appearance from any public street.
(Prior Code, § 12-209)
§ 153.099 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Compliance. No person shall park or occupy a manufactured home on the
premises of a lot with any occupied dwelling or on any land in the city except
as provided for in this section.
   (B)   Care facilities. A manufactured home may be permitted in an A, AP or
RR Zoning District if the Zoning Administrator finds the following conditions
are satisfied:
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be an accessory dwelling unit to be
occupied by persons who:
         (a)   Are infirm to the extent that they require extraordinary care;
         (b)   Need care that can only be provided, without great economic
hardship, by family members residing in the principal dwelling on the premises;
and
         (c)   Have a written statement of a physician stating the infirmity
and the need for care required by divisions (B)(1)(a) and (B)(1)(b) above.
      (2)   The administrative permit is so conditioned that it shall expire
and terminate at a time when the care facility is no longer the residence of
the person suffering from the infirmity who requires care, or at a time as this
care is no longer required.
      (3)   At the time of termination of the administrative permit, the
manufactured home care facility shall be removed from the premises within 30
days.
      (4)   The administrative permit is so conditioned so as to be reviewed
annually by the Zoning Administrator.
      (5)   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, subdivision 9, as
it may be amended from time to time, the city opts out of the requirements of
M.S. § 462.3593, as it may be amended from time to time, which defines and
regulates temporary family health care dwellings.
   (C)   Temporary farm dwelling. A manufactured home may be permitted by
administrative permit in an A or AP Zoning District if the Zoning Administrator
finds the following conditions are satisfied.
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be an accessory dwelling unit located
on a farm of at least 75 acres.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall be occupied by persons who are:
         (a)   Members of the family of the persons occupying the principal
dwelling on the premises; and/or
         (b)   Engaged in the occupation of farming on the premises as partners
or other business associates of the persons living in the principal dwelling on
the premises and who earn 50% or more of their annual gross income for federal
income tax purposes from farming on the premises.
      (3)   The administrative permit is so conditioned that it shall expire
and terminate at a time as the persons occupying the manufactured home are no
longer engaged in farming on the premises as required by division (C)(2)(b)
above.
      (4)   At the time of termination of the administrative permit, the
manufactured home temporary farm dwelling shall be removed from the premises
within 30 days.
      (5)   The administrative permit is conditioned so as to be reviewed
annually by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Temporary construction office. A manufactured home may be permitted by
a administrative permit in any zoning district if the Zoning Administrator
finds the following conditions are satisfied.
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be utilized as a field headquarters for
directing the ongoing construction of a project.
      (2)   Only one manufactured home shall be permitted on each project.
      (3)   The manufactured home shall have adequate sanitary facilities or
the site shall have temporary sanitary facilities installed.
      (4)   The manufactured home and parking spaces shall adhere to all
setback requirements for the zoning district and shall only utilize the
permitted driveway access.
      (5)   The manufactured home shall not be used as a dwelling unit.
      (6)   The administrative permit is issued only after the building permit
has been issued. The manufactured home shall not be placed on the construction
site until both a administrative permit and a building permit have been issued.
      (7)   The permit shall expire 90 days from the date of issuance and may
be renewed for one additional 90-day period.
      (8)   The applicant shall execute a contract with the city agreeing to
remove the manufactured home temporary construction office from the city prior
to the expiration of the permit, secured by a certified check or cash deposit
in an amount set by the Zoning Administrator, and authorizing the city to
remove the manufactured home immediately upon expiration of the permit shall
the applicant fail to do so, and to charge all costs of removal including a
reasonable attorney’s fee against the security deposit.
   (E)   Temporary dwelling unit during construction. A manufactured home may
be permitted by administrative permit in any Residential or Agricultural Zoning
District if the Zoning Administrator finds the following conditions are
satisfied.
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be utilized as a temporary dwelling
unit by the present or potential occupant of a single-family residence during
the construction, reconstruction or alteration of the residency by the present
or potential occupant.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall have adequate sanitary facilities as
prescribed by
Ch. 154 of this code.
      (3)   The administrative permit shall be issued only after the building
permit has been obtained for the proposed construction.
      (4)   The manufactured home and parking spaces shall adhere to all
setback requirements for the zoning district and shall utilize the permitted
driveway access.
      (5)   The permit shall expire 180 days from the date of issuance and may
be renewed for one additional 180-day period.
      (6)   The applicant shall execute a contract with the city agreeing to
remove the manufactured home temporary dwelling unit from the city prior to the
expiration of the permit, secured by a certified check or cash deposit in an
amount set by the Zoning Administrator, and authorizing the city to remove the
manufactured home immediately upon expiration of the permit shall the applicant
fail to do so, and to charge all costs of removal including a reasonable
attorney’s fee against the security deposit.
   (F)   Technical code requirements. All manufactured homes permitted under
this section shall meet or exceed the current manufactured homes Building Code
as defined in M.S. § 327.31, subdivision 3, as it may be amended from time to
time. The manufactured home shall have a sanitary sewer treatment and disposal
system in compliance with
Ch. 154 of this code, the state’s Pollution Control Agency and the Health
Department.
   (G)   Location. When a manufactured home is utilized as allowed by this
section, the placement of the manufactured home is subject to the same zoning
district dimensional setbacks as a principal structure.
   (H)   Additional requirements. Manufactured homes utilized as accessory
dwelling units shall:
      (1)   Use the existing driveway access of the principal dwelling unit;
      (2)   Be separated by a minimum horizontal distance of 40 feet from any
other structure; and
      (3)   Have ground anchors or tie downs as approved by the state’s
Manufactured Home Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 12-213) (Ord. 6-2006, passed 6-6-2006; Ord. 09-2016, passed 9-
20-2016)
§ 153.100 MINING.
   All mining and related uses of land, including but not limited to the
excavation, removal or storage of sand, gravel, rock, clay and other natural
deposits, are subject to the adopted standards, codes, ordinances and
regulations of the city related to activities and all regulations in the mining
ordinance,
Ch. 162 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-214)
Cross-reference:
   Mining, see
Ch. 162
§ 153.101 LAND RECLAMATION AND LAND GRADING.
   (A)   Within this chapter, LAND RECLAMATION AND LAND GRADING is the
depositing, removing and/or moving of material so as to alter the topography of
a lot.
      (1)   Land reclamation and land grading shall be permitted only by a
conditional use permit in all zoning districts.
      (2)   The depositing, moving and/or removing of more than 50 cubic yards
and/or the disturbance of land area of 1,000 square feet or more of material
per lot, either by hauling in and/or out or regrading of an area shall
constitute land reclamation and land grading.
      (3)   Land reclamation and land grading in floodplains shall be in
accordance with
Ch. 159 of this code.
      (4)   The permit shall include as a condition thereof a finished grading
plan that shall not adversely affect the adjacent land and as conditions
thereof shall regulate the type of material permitted, program for rodent
control, plan for fire control and general maintenance of the site, controls of
vehicular ingress and egress, drainage and control of material disbursed from
wind or hauling of material to or from the site, and erosion control and
stabilization plans for the deposited material or excavated area.
      (5)   In addition to a finished grading plan, a Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (ESCP) may be
required, if in the judgment of the Zoning Administrator, significant soil
erosion, vegetation destruction, drainage damage or pollution from stormwater
may occur during, or after the land alteration process. These plans shall
achieve at least the minimum standards described in
Ch. 158 of this code.
      (6)   The finished grading plan and stormwater pollution prevention and
erosion control plan shall be reviewed by the City Engineer and may be
reviewed, as deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator or the City Council,
by the state’s Department of Natural Resources, the county’s Soil and Water
Conservation District and the appropriate Watershed Management Organization
and/or District.
      (7)   The Zoning Administrator may require the applicant to post a bond
or other financial guarantee to ensure compliance with the permit.
   (B)   No person, county, municipality or other political subdivision shall
appropriate or use any public water, surface or underground, without first
obtaining a use of public waters permit and written permission of the
Commissioner of the Division of Waters, Soils and Minerals of the state’s
Department of Natural Resources. For purposes of these regulations, public
waters shall be defined in M.S. Ch. 103G, as it may be amended from time to
time, and as follows:
      (1)   Public waters shall include all lakes, ponds, swamps, streams,
drainageways, floodplains, floodways, natural watercourses, underground water
resources and similar features involving directly or indirectly the use of
water within the city.
      (2)   No public water area shall be filled, partially filled, dredged,
altered by grading, mining or otherwise utilized or disturbed in any manner
without first securing a public waters use permit from the state’s Department
of Natural Resources and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and a grading permit
from the city. Grading permits shall be reviewed and approved by the Department
of Natural Resources, the City Engineer, the Watershed District, the Planning
Commission and the City Council.
   (C)   A land reclamation and land grading permit is not required for the
following activities:
      (1)   Grading activities associated with a construction project provided
a building permit is used and there is a minimal amount of land disturbance;
      (2)   Subdivisions that have received preliminary plat approval;
      (3)   Driveways permitted in conjunction with a driveway permit;
      (4)   Cemetery graves;
      (5)   Refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations;
      (6)   Excavations for wells or tunnels for utilities;
      (7)   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing or stockpiling of sand,
gravel, rock, aggregate or clay where regulated by
Ch. 162 of this code; and
      (8)   Exploratory excavations under the direction of soil engineers or
engineering geologists.
   (D)   Guidelines for grading of slopes are as follows.
      (1)   No slopes of 18% or greater shall be disturbed, with the exception
of driveways crossing human-made slopes that were created by the construction
of roads or related ditches, and that extend only perpendicular to the road for
a horizontal distance of 30 feet or less, and, where no other option is
available to the landowner.
      (2)   Within the Lower St. Croix River Bluffland and Shoreland Management
District, no slopes of 12% or greater shall be disturbed. See §
157.41 of this code.
      (3)   Additional grading and filling requirements are applicable if in
Shoreland Management District. See §
156.056 of this code.
   (E)   The work for which a land reclamation and land grading permit is used
shall commence within 180 days after the date of permit issuance unless an
application for an extension of 90 days has been submitted to and approved by
the Zoning Administrator.
   (F)   Permits issued by the Zoning Administrator under the provisions of
this section shall expire and be null and void if the work authorized by a
permit is abandoned or suspended for a period of 180 days or if work in not
commenced or completed within the time limitations of division (E) above.
(Prior Code, § 12-215) (Ord. 8-2005, passed 5-17-2005; Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-
21-2009; Ord. 11-2016, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 153.102 SOIL CONSERVATION PLANS.
   (A)   On any development or land reclamation project with more than one acre
of soil, drainage patterns or vegetation cover that would be either destroyed
or disturbed by the construction process, the Zoning Administrator may require
the owner or contractor on the project to request the Soil Conservation
District to prepare a soil conservation plan to protect the soil from erosion
or sheet run-off for the duration of the construction project and/or over the
long-term occupancy of the site.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may require a soil conservation plan on
projects that disturb less than one acre of soil, drainage patterns or
vegetation cover if, in the judgment of the Zoning Administrator, significant
soil erosion, vegetation destruction or drainage damage may occur during the
construction process.
   (C)   A soil conservation plan shall consist of specific written
recommendations on how to protect the soil, vegetation and drainage patterns
during the construction process. The Zoning Administrator may require
construction fencing along the edges of the construction area.
   (D)   Where construction of a structure is proposed on slopes of 13% to 18%,
the Zoning Administrator shall require the applicant to provide a grading and
erosion control plan and to obtain an administrative permit.
   (E)   The City Council may require the applicant to post a financial
guarantee to ensure the orderly completion of the grading and erosion control
plan by a specific date.
(Prior Code, § 12-216)
§ 153.103 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No land shall be developed or altered and no use shall be permitted
that results in surface or stormwater run-off causing or with the potential to
cause unreasonable flooding, erosion or deposit of materials on adjacent
properties or waterbodies. The run-off shall be properly channeled into a
stormwater management facility that is consistent with the stormwater
management and erosion and sediment control requirements of Ch. 158 of this
code. Any increase in run-off rate or volume as a result of the developed
portion of a property shall achieve at least the minimum requirements of
Ch. 158 of this code.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator, upon inspection of any site that has created
drainage problems, or could create drainage problems with proposed new
development, may require the owner of a site or the contractor of the
development to complete a grading plan and apply for a grading permit.
   (C)   The owner or contractor of any natural drainage improvement or
alteration may be required by the Zoning Administrator to obtain
recommendations from the state’s Department of Natural Resources, the county’s
Soil Conservation District, the affected Watershed District and/or the City
Engineer, as well as obtaining a grading permit.
   (D)   On any slope in excess of 13% where, in the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator, the natural drainage pattern may be disturbed or altered, the
Zoning Administrator may require the applicant to submit both a grading plan
and a soil conservation plan prior to applying for a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-217) (Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 153.104 VEGETATIVE CUTTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CLEAR CUTTING. The removal of all live vegetation in excess of six inches
in diameter at breast height on any area of 20,000 square feet or more in size.
      SELECTIVE CUTTING. The removal of single scattered live trees or shrubs
in excess of six inches in diameter at breast height.
   (B)   Clear cutting of any site shall require a conditional use permit,
except as regulated by division (E) below. A reclamation, soil conservation or
revegetation plan may be required by the Zoning Administrator as part of the
conditional use permit application.
   (C)   Clear cutting of vegetation shall not be permitted within any required
yard of any lot or parcel within any zoning district.
   (D)   Clear cutting shall not be permitted on slopes greater than 13%.
   (E)   Clear cutting for commercial tree production purposes shall require a
administrative permit.
   (F)   Selective tree cutting may occur on any lot provided:
      (1)   The slope does not exceed 30%;
      (2)   On slopes greater than 13% the Zoning Administrator may require a
revegetation plan and a administrative permit; and
      (3)   Cutting within the St. Croix River District shall be regulated by
Ch. 157 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-218)
§ 153.105 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   A POOL is defined as any swimming pool, outdoor hot tub or other pool
of any type with a capacity of over 3,000 gallons or with a depth of over three
and one-half feet of water.
   (B)   In all zoning districts where single- and two-family dwelling units
are permitted uses, the following standards apply.
      (1)   An administrative permit shall be required for any pool.
      (2)   Any swimming pool requiring an administrative permit shall also be
required to obtain a building permit.
      (3)   An application for an administrative permit shall include a site
plan showing:
         (a)   The type and size of pool;
         (b)   Location of pool;
         (c)   Location of house, garage, fencing and other improvements on the
lot;
         (d)   Location of structures on all adjacent lots;
         (e)   Location of filter unit, pump and writing indicating the type of
the units;
         (f)   Location of back-flush and drainage outlets;
         (g)   Grading plan, finished elevations and final treatment (decking,
landscaping and the like) around the pool;
         (h)   Location of existing overhead and underground wiring, utility
easements, trees and similar features; and
         (i)   Location of any water heating unit.
      (4)   Pools shall not be located within 20 feet of any septic tank,
drainfield or line nor within six feet of any principal structure or frost
footing. Pools shall not be located within any required front, side or rear
yards.
      (5)   Pools shall not be located beneath overhead utility lines nor over
underground utility lines of any type.
      (6)   Pools shall not be located within any private or public utility,
walkway, drainage or other easement.
      (7)   The necessary precautions shall be taken during construction to:
         (a)   Avoid damage, hazards or inconvenience to adjacent or nearby
property; and
         (b)   Assure that proper care shall be taken in stockpiling excavated
material to avoid erosion, dust or other infringements upon adjacent property.
      (8)   All access for construction shall be over the owner’s land and due
care shall be taken to avoid damage to public streets and adjacent private or
public property.
      (9)   To the extent feasible, back-flush water or water from pool
drainage shall be directed onto the owner’s property or into approved public
drainageways. Water shall not drain onto adjacent or nearby private land.
      (10)   The filter unit, pump, heating unit and any other noise making
mechanical equipment shall be located at least 50 feet from any neighboring
residential structure and not closer than ten feet to any lot line.
      (11)   Lighting for the pool shall be directed toward the pool and not
toward adjacent property.
      (12)   A safety fence of a nonclimbable type at least five feet in
height, with a self-closing and latching gate, shall completely enclose the
pool, or a pool auto cover approved by the city shall be an acceptable
enclosure so long as the degree of protection afforded by the pool auto cover
is similar to that afforded by the enclosure, gate and latch described above
for fences; the pool auto cover complies with the American Society for Testing
and Materials (ASTM) Standard F1346-91 (2003) or most recent ASTM standard and
is UL listed; and is sufficient to support the weight of 500 pounds minimum and
completely covers or encloses the pool; and subject to the requirements listed
in divisions (B)(12)(a) and (B)(12)(b) below. The applicant shall submit
documentation verifying that the proposed cover meets the required standard.
The substitution with a pool auto cover shall be done by the issuance of a
building permit.
         (a)   The pool auto cover as an alternative to a fence is only allowed
in the Rural Residential and Agricultural zones.
         (b)   The pool auto cover must be kept in good repair and the auto
cover must be designed, installed and used so that the degree of protection
provided by the auto cover is similar to that afforded by a fence.
      (13)   Required structure or fencing shall be completely installed within
three weeks following the installation of the pool and before any water is
allowed in the pool. A financial guarantee shall be required to assure erection
of the structure or fence.
      (14)   Water in the pool shall be maintained in a suitable manner to
avoid health hazards of any type. The water shall be subject to periodic
inspection by the appointed health officer.
      (15)   All wiring, installation of heating units, grading, installation
of pipes and all other installations and construction shall be subject to
inspection.
      (16)   Any proposed deviation from these standards and requirements shall
require a variance in accordance with normal zoning procedures.
(Prior Code, § 12-219) (Ord. 03-2018, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 153.106 TENNIS COURTS.
   In all zoning districts, the following standards for tennis courts shall
apply.
   (A)   An administrative permit shall be required for all private tennis
courts on residential lots.
   (B)   A conditional use permit shall be required for all public, semipublic
and commercial tennis courts.
   (C)   An application for an administrative permit or a conditional use
permit shall include a site plan drawn to scale showing:
      (1)   The size, shape and pavement and sub-pavement materials;
      (2)   The location of the court;
      (3)   The location of the house, garage, fencing, septic system and other
structural improvements on the lot;
      (4)   The location of structures on all adjacent lots;
      (5)   A grading plan showing all revised drainage patterns and finished
elevations at the four corners of the court;
      (6)   Landscaping and turf protection around the court; and
      (7)   Location of existing and proposed wiring and lighting facilities.
   (D)   Tennis courts shall not be placed within any required yard.
   (E)   Tennis courts shall not be located over underground utility lines of
any type, nor shall any court be located within any private or public utility,
walkway, drainage or other easement.
   (F)   Solid tennis court practice walls shall not exceed ten feet in height.
A building permit shall be required for the walls.
   (G)   Chain link fencing surrounding the tennis court may extend up to 12
feet in height above the tennis court surface elevation.
(Prior Code, § 12-220)
§ 153.107 PRIVATE KENNELS.
   (A)   Private kennels are only permitted after the issuance of a conditional
use permit in the Agricultural and Rural Residential Zoning Districts. Private
kennels are prohibited in other zoning districts.
   (B)   The following standards must be met for private kennels.
      (1)   The kennel shall be operated as a private residential kennel
without any boarding of dogs owned by others, no offering of or actual training
of dogs owned by others and no regular offering of dogs for sale.
      (2)   The minimum acreage required for a residential kennel is five
acres.
      (3)   No more than six dogs over six months of age shall be permitted on
a five-acre parcel. For each additional acre one additional dog over six months
of age shall be permitted, up to a maximum of ten dogs.
      (4)   If the land is subdivided, the number of dogs permitted shall be
reduced if necessary to comply with this chapter.
      (5)   The setback from the side and rear lot line shall be a minimum of
100 feet for any part of the kennel operation, except that it shall be a
minimum of 200 feet from any existing dwelling on an adjacent parcel.
      (6)   There shall be a 2,000-foot separation between kennels.
      (7)   All dogs shall be kenneled within the residence. Outside runs are
permitted provided they do not exceed a total area of 5,000 square feet.
      (8)   No buildings shall be constructed within the runs.
      (9)   All runs shall be attached to the principal dwelling.
      (10)   The fencing shall be constructed so that dogs cannot go over,
under or through the fence.
      (11)   The fencing shall be constructed as per the plans accompanying the
application which shall be on file in the City Hall.
      (12)   The applicant shall take measures as are required to limit the
noise from the dogs. Complaints of the dogs frequently or habitually howling,
yelping, barking or complaints of odor may be grounds for revoking the permit.
      (13)   Owner shall be present on the premises when more than three dogs
are outside.
      (14)   The permit for private kennel shall be subject to annual review.
         (a)   Adjoining landowners shall be notified at least two weeks before
the permit is to be reviewed in order that they may have time to comment on the
use.
         (b)   The applicant shall provide a list of adjoining landowners at
least 30 days before the required review and pay fees as are set from time to
time by resolution of the City Council.
      (15)   All waste materials shall be disposed of in accordance with the
ordinances of the city and state law and in a manner as to avoid the creation
of a nuisance.
      (16)   Periodic inspection shall be made by the Zoning Administrator.
      (17)   Failure to meet the conditions of the conditional use permit shall
constitute grounds for revocation of the permit.
      (18)   All dogs in the kennel shall be licensed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-221) (Ord. 1997-3, passed 12-16-1997) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.108 BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITIES.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast facilities are permitted only after the issuance of
a conditional use permit, which shall be subject to annual renewal. Bed and
breakfast facilities are prohibited in the industrial zone.
   (B)   The following standards must be met for bed and breakfast facilities.
      (1)   The owner shall be in residence when the rooms are being rented by
paying guests.
      (2)   The rooms rented out shall be within the residence and not in any
accessory building.
      (3)   No more than two rooms shall be rented, and there shall be no more
than four paying guests at one time.
      (4)   Off-street parking shall be provided, with a minimum of one space
per guest room and one space for the operator. An additional space shall be
provided for any type of trailer or other towed item
belonging to a paying guest.
      (5)   The septic system shall be to code and sized for the proposed use,
and the property must contain adequate space for an alternate septic system.
      (6)   There shall be no signs other than those allowed for the district.
      (7)   There shall be no exterior indication that the residence is a bed
and breakfast facility.
      (8)   No paying guest shall stay in the facility for more than 14
consecutive days.
      (9)   The facility shall not be used for commercial receptions, parties
and the like, for the serving to paying guests of meals other than breakfast or
the serving of meals to nonresident guests for compensation. There shall be no
cooking in guestrooms.
      (10)   Smoke alarms shall be installed. Certification that the facility
has passed inspection by the Fire District shall be submitted to the city
before the permit is issued.
      (11)   The Building Official shall inspect and approve the facility, and
certification that the facility has passed inspection by the Building Official
shall be submitted to the city before the permit is issued.
      (12)   A license is required by the county’s Public Health Department and
a copy of the license issued by the Public Health Department shall be submitted
to the city within ten days of its receipt by the operator of the bed and
breakfast facility.
      (13)   Bed and breakfast facilities shall meet the current side and rear
setback requirements for the zone in which they are located.
      (14)   Operators of bed and breakfast facilities are required to give
clients directions for reaching the residence.
      (15)   Failure to meet the conditions of the conditional use permit shall
constitute grounds for withdrawal of the permit.
      (16)   If ownership is transferred, an amended conditional use permit
must be applied for by the new owner within 60 days of the change in ownership.
      (17)   The conditional use permit shall terminate if the amended permit
is not requested within 60 days or if there is no request for annual renewal.
(Prior Code, § 12-222) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.109 HOTELS.
   (A)   A hotel as defined in §
153.005 of this code shall be permitted in the VHS-C Zoning District only, upon
the issuance of a conditional use permit.
   (B)   One off-street parking space as defined in §
153.086 of this code shall be required for each guest room in a hotel and one
space for each employee shall be provided. These parking spaces are in addition
to off-street parking spaces required for any associated use such as a
restaurant, bar and related facilities.
   (C)   Minimum lot size, lot width, setbacks (except where the structure
involved exists as nonconforming and no increase in the violation of the
setback occurs) and maximum site coverage shall be regulated as per §
153.051 of this code, and the number of hotel rooms in the structure shall be
limited to two double occupancy hotel rooms per old village lot contained
within the contiguous property upon which the structure is located, or within
the contiguous property in an adjacent block situated entirely within the VHS-
C Zoning District. If lots in an adjacent block are used for density purposes
for hotel rooms, they shall not be used for any principal purpose, but may be
used only for septic area or parking spaces required for the hotel and
associated uses such as a restaurant or bar.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities must comply with all state, county and city codes
and the sanitary facilities of the hotel shall be exclusively for the use of
hotel room guests.
   (E)   Signage for a hotel shall be regulated as per §
153.130 of this code.
   (F)   Hotel shall not be of more than two stories in height unless approved
by the City Council upon recommendation of the Fire Marshal.
   (G)   The fire safety, sprinkler and alarm systems shall be in compliance
with the state, county and local codes, and shall be adequate in the view of
the Fire Marshal and the City Engineer for the health and safety of the
occupants of the hotel and the adjoining landowners.
   (H)   All other codes, including
Ch. 157 and
159 of this code, must be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 12-223)
§ 153.110 MARINAS.
   (A)   A marina may be permitted in the VHS District only, upon the issuance
of a conditional use permit.
   (B)   One and one-half parking spaces (as defined in §
153.086 of this code) per slip, plus one space per employee, shall be provided.
Additional parking for trailers may be required as determined necessary by the
city.
   (C)   Minimum lot size, lot widths and maximum site coverage shall be
regulated as per this chapter and
Ch. 157 of this code.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities must comply with all state, county and city codes.
   (E)   All structures and other facilities associated with the marina must
meet applicable setbacks from the river as outlined in
Ch. 157 of this code.
   (F)   Design and operation of facilities must be consistent with applicable
provisions of the state’s Fire Code, various licenses, permits or design
standards of the state’s Pollution Control Agency, Department of Natural
Resources and Department of Public Health.
   (G)   Docks must be at least as long as watercraft moored and must be at
least three feet wide if provided on both sides of watercraft or at least five
feet wide if provided on only one side. Replacement of docks at existing
marinas may be replaced at the same width and length as they existed at time of
replacement.
   (H)   Covered slips may be allowed if they are earth tone in color.
   (I)   All other codes, including
Ch. 157 and
159 of this code, must be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 12-224)
§ 153.111 COIN-OPERATED MACHINES.
   Coin-operated, automatic machines dispensing food, soft drinks and other
food and materials shall not be permitted outside of a building, except as
approved by conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-225)
§ 153.112 GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   No person or organization shall hold more than four garage sale
occasions in the course of any calendar year.
   (B)   All garage sales held within the city limits shall abide by the
following provisions:
      (1)   No garage sales shall last for more than three consecutive days.
      (2)   Garage sales shall not commence earlier than 8:00 a.m. and shall
not conduct business beyond 8:00 p.m.
      (3)   Signs advertising garage sales must comply with the existing city
ordinances at the time of the sale and must be retrieved by 6:00 p.m. on the
day following the last day of the sale.
   (C)   Any person or organization violating the provisions of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 12-227) (Res. 1997-5, passed 2-11-1997; Res. 1997-16, passed 6-
17-1997) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.113 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Requirements for home occupations are as follows.
   (A)   There shall be no outward indication that the residence is anything
other than a single-family residential dwelling unit.
   (B)   Each permitted home occupation must be conducted within the principal
dwelling unit and shall not be conducted in an accessory building.
   (C)   No exterior storage of equipment or materials used in a home
occupation shall be permitted.
   (D)   Uses which are otherwise permitted by conditional use permit or
administrative permit shall not be considered home occupations but shall be
subject to the requirements of §
153.053 of this code.
   (E)   No home occupation shall be permitted that creates the need for more
than three parking spaces at any given time in addition to the parking spaces
required by the occupants.
   (F)   There shall be no signage visible from outside the dwelling other than
those otherwise permitted in the zoning district in which the dwelling is
located.
   (G)   The home occupation shall not produce light, glare, noise, fumes,
smoke, dust, heat, odors or vibration detectable to the normal senses off the
property, or traffic. Pollutants and toxic wastes of any nature are not
allowed.
   (H)   No equipment shall be permitted to be used in the home occupation,
which may create electromagnetic interference to surrounding property.
   (I)   There shall be no retail sales of goods allowed as part of any home
occupation, with the exception of limited retail sales of food items as allowed
under the Cottage Food Law, if the sales are under the Tier 1 sales cap of the
Cottage Food Law, the individual is registered for cottage food sales, and an
administrative permit is obtained from the city for the cottage food sales.
      (1)   The individual shall provide documentation of the initial cottage
food registration, as well as documentation of each annual renewal of the
registration.
      (2)   The administrative permit may be revoked if the cottage food use
does not meet city code requirements or the Cottage Food Law requirements.
   (J)   Any interior or exterior alterations resulting from home occupations
shall be prohibited, except those customarily found in a single-family
dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 12-228) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 03-2024, passed 6-
18-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.114 FARMERS MARKET.
   (A)   A farmers market requires a special event permit.
   (B)   In the VHS-R, a farmers market can be held only in a public park.
   (C)   A farmers market shall be operated by a local non-profit organization,
and shall not be operated by a commercial entity.
   (D)   The sale of food products is subject to obtaining any required permits
or licenses from the Public Health Department.
   (E)   Parking and display areas associated with the farmers market shall not
distract or interfere with existing business operations, traffic circulation
patterns or parking.
   (F)   The site shall be kept in a neat and orderly manner and display of
items shall be as compact as possible so as to not interfere with existing
business, parking or driveway operations.
   (G)   Sales merchandise trailers, temporary stands and the like shall be
located on an asphalt or concrete surface unless approved in a city park
through a special event permit.
   (H)   A farmers market with a valid special event permit may have one
temporary sign not to exceed 24 square feet in area and not more than six feet
in height.
   (I)   The operator shall have the written permission of the current property
owner to locate on a specific site.
   (J)   A daily clean-up program shall be presented as part of the permit
application.
   (K)   Signage and lighting plans shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator prior to any sales.
   (L)   Dates, times and location of the sales shall be approved as part of
the special event permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-231) (Ord. 01-2015, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 153.115 SHORT-TERM HOME RENTALS.
   (A)   Scope. This section applies to all short-term home rentals in the
city.
   (B)   Purpose. The city has adopted this section for the purpose of allowing
short-term home rentals consistent with Rural Residential, Agricultural and
Village Historic Site zone uses where appropriate while mitigating impacts upon
surrounding properties by implementing balanced regulations, and to protect the
general public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. When consistent with the context, words in the plural
include the singular and words in the singular include the plural.
      CERTIFICATE OF SEPTIC SYSTEM COMPLIANCE. A compliance certificate that
was issued on a new septic system installed within the past five years or a
copy of a compliance inspection which was performed within the past three
years.
      CITY. City of Afton.
      DWELLING. A principal structure that contains one dwelling unit, intended
or designated to be used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied for
living purposes.
      DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
      GUEST. A person who is registered as staying at the property as part of a
short-term home rental.
      OWNER. Any person who, alone or with others, has title or interest in any
building, property, dwelling, dwelling unit or portion thereof, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof, including any person who as tenant,
agent, executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of an estate has charge,
care, control of any dwelling or dwelling unit.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, governmental
entity or partnership and its agents or assigns.
      PRIMARY RESIDENCE. The dwelling unit within which a person lives for six
months plus a day during a calendar year.
      PRIMARY RESIDENT. A person living on a property where the property is the
person’s primary residence.
      SHORT-TERM HOME RENTAL, TYPE A (HOSTED SHORT-TERM RENTAL). A dwelling
unit that is offered to transient guests for a period of less than 30
consecutive days, where a primary resident of the property is present while the
transient guests are present.
      SHORT-TERM HOME RENTAL, TYPE B (UNHOSTED SHORT-TERM RENTAL). A dwelling
unit that is offered to transient guests for a period of less than 30
consecutive days, where the property serves as a person’s primary residence but
a primary resident of the property is not present while the transient guests
are present.
      SHORT-TERM HOME RENTALS, TYPE C (DEDICATED SHORT-TERM RENTAL). A dwelling
unit that is offered to transient guests for a period of less than 30
consecutive days, where the property does not serve as a person’s primary
residence.
      SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A dwelling unit, or a portion of a dwelling unit,
rented for a period of less than 30 days. No more than one rental of a SHORT-
TERM RENTAL dwelling unit or portion thereof shall be permitted per day.
   (D)   License required. No property may be used for Type A, B or C short-
term home rental unless a license is granted by the city.
      (1)   Term. The initial short-term rental license shall expire one year
from the date the license is issued, unless revoked. Subsequent renewals shall
not be for a period of more than three years.
      (2)   Renewal. A renewal license must be applied for every three years.
The renewal license application may only be submitted after the property has
passed a city inspection as required and appropriate fees have been paid.
      (3)   Non-transferable. Licenses are non-transferable and shall expire
upon change of ownership of the property.
   (E)   License application. Any property owner desiring to undertake short-
term home rentals must apply to the city for a short-term home rental license.
A license must be approved prior to operating within the city. The license
application request must be submitted on the form provided by the city and must
include all the information requested on the application form. A criminal
background check consistent with M.S. Ch. 299C, as it may be amended from time
to time, shall be conducted on managers (as defined by M.S. § 299C.67,
subdivision 4, as it may be amended from time to time) as part of the license
application review.
   (F)   License fee. The license application form must be accompanied by
payment in full of the required license application fee. The license
application fee shall be determined by the City Council in the city’s fee
schedule.
   (G)   License issuance. Licenses shall be issued exclusively for principal
structures with one dwelling unit, with the exception of a duplex in the Rural
Residential District with a valid conditional use permit, which has two
dwelling units, and with the exception of a commercial building in the VHS-
District with a valid conditional use permit which has two dwelling units. The
process for review and issuance of a license shall vary depending upon the type
of short-term home rental as follows:
      (1)   Type A. Hosted short-term home rentals in a homesteaded property
with more than 14 days of rentals per year. Type A short-term home rental
licenses shall be issued administratively if all the terms and conditions of
this section are met.
      (2)   Type B. Unhosted, short-term home rentals in a homesteaded
property. Type B short-term home rental licenses shall be issued
administratively if all the terms and conditions of this section are met.
      (3)   Type C. Unhosted, dedicated short-term rental. Type C short-term
home rental licenses require a conditional use permit and shall be issued
administratively if all the terms and conditions of this section are met and a
conditional use permit (CUP) is granted. The conditional use permit application
shall be reviewed according to the CUP process established in §
153.027 of this code.
   (H)   Performance standards. Type A, B and C short-term home rentals shall
be subject to the performance standards identified below, except where a
performance standard is specifically applicable to only specific types of
rentals.
      (1)   Parking. In Residential Zoning Districts, all guest parking must be
accommodated on improved driveways and improved parking surfaces on the
premises. No on-street parking is allowed for guests.
      (2)   Length of guest stay. The minimum length of stay is one day. The
maximum length of stay, as it pertains to this chapter, is 30 days.
      (3)   Number of guests. The maximum number of guests shall be limited to
two times the number of bedrooms, plus two guests. Children under the age of 12
are excluded from the calculation of number of guests.
      (4)   Annual water testing. The licensee for Type A, B and C short-term
rentals shall test the water serving the dwelling for coliform bacteria,
nitrates and lead on an annual basis, and the water must meet health-based
standards for these items.
      (5)   Guest records. The licensee for Type B and C short-term rentals
must keep a guest record including the name, address, phone number and vehicle
license plate information for all guests and must provide this information in a
report to the city upon 48 hours’ notice, if requested by the city. The request
for a report shall include how and to whom the report shall be provided.
      (6)   Manager information. For Type B and C short-term home rentals, the
licensee must provide the name, phone number and address of the owner,
operating lessee or managing agent/representative to the city, along with
mailing labels for all property owners within 500 feet of the property lines.
The city shall then send the information to the adjacent property owners. The
licensee shall provide any changes to this information, along with additional
mailing labels, to the City Administrator within ten days of any changes. The
City Administrator shall then send the information to the adjacent property
owners.
      (7)   Guest disclosures. The licensee must disclose in writing to their
guests the following rules and regulations and must submit a copy of the
disclosure to the city with the license application and renewal applications.
In addition, the disclosures must be conspicuously displayed in the home. The
disclosures must include the following:
         (a)   For Type B and C short-term home rentals, the name, phone number
and address of the owner, operating lessee or managing agent/representative;
         (b)   The maximum number of guests allowed at the property;
         (c)   The maximum number of vehicles allowed at the property and the
approved parking areas, as indicated on the site plan provided with the license
application;
         (d)   Property rules related to use of outdoor features, such as
decks, patios, grills, recreational fires, saunas and other recreational
facilities;
         (e)   That city nuisance ordinances shall be enforced by the County
Sheriff’s Department, including reduced noise levels between 10:00 p.m. and 8:
00 a.m.; and
         (f)   That no events are allowed to be hosted by a guest on the
premises.
      (8)   Posting of license number. The licensee must post the city license
number at the property and on all print, poster or web advertisements.
      (9)   Proximity of assistance. For Type C short-term home rentals, the
property owner or a manager/representative must be located within 30 minutes
travel time of the property.
      (10)   Signage. For Type A, B and C short-term home rental no signage is
allowed on the property.
      (11)   Events. Events are not allowed to be hosted by guests on the
premises. For purposes of this section, an EVENT means a gathering on the
premises of more than three un-registered guests. Events hosted by the property
owner are allowed but must comply with all applicable city ordinances and
policies, including the prohibition on renting out private residential property
for events.
      (12)   Insurance. The licensee must provide proof of sufficient and
suitable property insurance, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, with
the license application and must be able to confirm that the coverage remains
in place within 24 hours of a request by the city.
      (13)   There shall be no change in the exterior appearance of the home or
premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of a short-term home rental,
except that additional on-site city code compliant parking may be provided.
      (14)   No lessee under this chapter shall be granted any benefit
otherwise granted to lessees of homes under the firearms ordinance in
Ch. 130 of this code.
      (15)   Advertising for short-term rentals without a license for short-
term home rentals is prohibited.
   (I)   Required health and safety inspections.
      (1)   Type A, B and C license applications shall not be accepted without
an approved inspection report signed by the city’s Fire Department and Building
Department. The inspection must have been completed no more than 60 days prior
to submission of the license application.
      (2)   The list of health and safety items that shall be inspected shall
be included in license application materials so that the licensee shall know in
advance what items shall be inspected. If the inspection identifies items that
must be corrected, all corrections must be completed and verified by the city
before the license shall be issued.
      (3)   Any property licensed under this section shall be subject to lawful
inspection by the Zoning Administrator and the Zoning Administrator’s
authorized representatives upon a schedule determined by the Zoning
Administrator or upon complaint.
   (J)   Site plan and floor plan for Type A, B and C short-term home rentals.
      (1)   The applicant must submit a site plan of the property drawn to
scale, showing parking and driveways, all structures and outdoor recreational
areas that guests shall be allowed to use, including, but not limited to, deck/
patio, barbeque grill, recreational fire or sauna.
      (2)   The applicant must submit a floor plan of the residence drawn to
scale identifying which rooms are proposed to be used as guest bedrooms. The
number of bedrooms in the application must match the number of bedrooms
reflected in the county’s property tax records.
   (K)   Interchangeability of license types. A licensee may use the license to
operate any short-term home rental type equal to or less restrictive than the
one for which the license was issued. For example, if an owner is issued a Type
C license, the property is permitted to operate as a Type C, B or A. If a Type
B license is issued, the property is permitted to operate as a Type B or A.
   (L)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Injunctive relief. In the event of a violation or threatened
violation of this section, the city, in addition to other remedies, is entitled
to seek injunctive relief or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate
the violations or threatened violations.
      (2)   Suspension or revocation.
         (a)   Any short-term home rental license may be suspended or revoked
for one or more of the following reasons upon notice and the provision of an
opportunity for hearing for good cause:
            1.   Violation of, or noncompliance with, any license requirement
or performance standard, or any applicable law, statute or ordinance;
            2.   It is the second substantiated and relevant complaint, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator, within a 12-month period;
            3.   The licensee/property owner or their agent has failed to pay
all of the appropriate fees related to the license, or is delinquent on any
other city fees;
            4.   The licensee/property owner or their agent has made fraudulent
statements, misrepresentations, not fully disclosed information or made false
statements in the application for or in the course of the licensee’s business;
            5.   The licensee/property owner or their agent has been convicted
of any crime or offense in the previous five years involving or relating to the
short-term home rental business and the licensee has failed to show competent
evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties
of the business;
            6.   The licensee/property owner or their agent has acted in an
unauthorized manner or beyond the scope of the license granted; or
            7.   The licensee/property owner or their agent has advertised the
property in a way that conflicts with any limitation or requirement of this
chapter.
            8.   Anyone operating a short-term home rental or advertising a
short-term home rental, without a license from the city, after receiving
notification by the city that they are in violation and a license is required
prior to renting, is subject to immediate and permanent revocation of all
short-term rentals in the city owned and/or operated by the violator.
         (b)   If a license is revoked, the owner is prohibited from making
application for another license for any type of short-term home rental for a
period of one year. If a property is found to be providing short-term home
rentals without the required license, the owner shall be prohibited from using
the property for short-term home rentals, or making application for a license
for any type of short-term home rental, for a period of three years, subject to
the payment of any penalty fees.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-17-2020; Ord. 01-2023, passed 2-21-2023) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.116 FARM KITCHEN, ACCESSORY.
   (A)   A majority of the foods prepared shall include ingredients grown in
the city.
   (B)   Value added agricultural products produced in an accessory farm
kitchen may be sold via a CSA (community supported agriculture) or a roadside
farm stand.
   (C)   An accessory farm kitchen shall be an accessory use to a farm that
meets the definition of agriculture, rural.
   (D)   An accessory farm kitchen shall obtain all applicable state and county
licensing and permits.
   (E)   An accessory farm kitchen shall not exceed a size of 1,200 square feet
unless a conditional use permit is obtained.
(Ord. 08-2021, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 153.117 FARM WINERY.
   (A)   A farm winery is allowed with an approved conditional use permit in
the Agricultural Zone.
   (B)   Wholesale sales of wine are allowed with a state farm winery license.
   (C)   Wine tastings are allowed and shall be by appointment only, and
appointments shall be limited to a maximum of ten people and a maximum of two
hours. Wine tastings shall be limited to three days per week and shall not
extend beyond 9:00 p.m. Wine tastings require a state farm winery license.
   (D)   Off-sale retail sales of wine may occur only as part of an allowed
wine tasting.
   (E)   No food sales are allowed as part of a wine tasting.
   (F)   On-sale retail sale of wine is not allowed.
   (G)   Off-street parking shall be provided, with adequate parking for guests
at wine tastings and for employees.
   (H)   The plans for a farm winery building and parking area shall be subject
to review and approval as part of a conditional use permit application review
process.
   (I)   A farm winery cannot be used as a commercial event venue.
(Ord. 09-2024, passed 8-20-2024)
SIGNS
§ 153.130 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to protect and retain the
natural scenic beauty of the roadsides throughout the city. By the construction
of public roads, the public has created views to which the public retains a
right-of-way view, and it is the intent of these standards to prevent the
taking of that right.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SIGN. A notice that directs attention to a product, place, activity,
person, institution, organization or business for public view.
      SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign that directs attention to a business or
profession or to a commodity, service or entertainment.
      SIGN, AREA. The entire area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the
extreme limits of the sign. However, the perimeter shall not include any
structural elements lying outside of the sign and not forming an integral part
or border of the sign.
      SIGN, BANNER. Any sign made of flexible material hung up on a crossbar or
between two points of any permanent structure or poles advertising an event
such as a grand opening, special sale or similar situation.
      SIGN, BILLBOARD. An outdoor panel for the display of large advertisements
in public places, such as alongside highways, roads and streets.
      SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign that directs attention to a business or profession
or to the commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises
where the sign is located or to which it is attached.
      SIGN, DISPLAY. Any commodity that is sold or produced by the occupant
which is exhibited outside the premises for the purpose of bringing to the
attention of others, those items currently for sale within the premises.
      SIGN, FLASHING. An illuminated sign which has a light source not constant
in intensity or color at all times while the sign is in use.
      SIGN, GROUND. A sign which is supported by one or more uprights, poles or
braces in or upon the ground.
      SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign which is lighted with an artificial light
source, that meets government mandated regulations and is appropriate to the
application of a building’s historic period.
      SIGN, MOTION. A sign that has moving parts.
      SIGN, NAMEPLATE. A sign which states the address of a property, or in the
case of a business or industrial property, the name and/or address of the
business or industrial occupant.
      SIGN, OFF-PREMISES DIRECTIONAL. A sign for public or non-profit
organizations, including religious organizations, that is located distant from
a building or activity area, and may or may not be located on the same parcel
as the building or activity area.
      SIGN, PORTABLE. An unlighted sign not affixed to the ground or building
and easily carried or moved.
      SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign offering property (land and/or buildings) for
sale, lease or rent and located on the property being offered.
      SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet of a building.
      SIGN, STRUCTURE. The supports, uprights, braces and framework of the
sign.
      SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign, except a banner sign, placed in a manner as
not to be solidly affixed to any building, structure or land and advertising an
event such as a bazaar, special sale, sporting event, or similar situation.
      SIGN, WALL. A sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building
with the exposed face of the sign parallel to the wall.
      SIGN, WARNING. A sign which warns the public of a danger or hazard in the
immediate vicinity and is obviously not intended for advertising purposes.
   (C)   Permit required.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no sign shall be
erected, constructed, altered, rebuilt or relocated until a conditional use
permit or sign permit for the sign has been issued according to the sign permit
chart in §
153.133 of this code.
      (2)   No permit shall be required under this section for the following
signs:
         (a)   Real estate sale signs nine square feet or less;
         (b)   Political signs;
         (c)   Warning signs which do not exceed five square feet in area;
         (d)   Public notices defined as notices placed or authorized by the
city which are located on private property with permission of the landowner, or
on public property or right-of-way; and
         (e)   Nameplate signs two square feet in area or less.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The regulations contained in this subchapter do not apply to signs
attached by adhesive or otherwise attached to or visible through windows and
glass portions of doors.
      (2)   On-premises signs for churches or other places of worship shall be
permitted by conditional use permit. The total surface area of all on-premises
signs for churches or other places of worship shall not exceed 100 square feet.
The top of the signs including supporting structure shall not exceed 14 feet
above the average grade. The width of the signs shall not exceed 16 feet. The
maximum surface area for any sign shall not one-tenth square feet per foot of
road frontage. The signs may be illuminated as restricted in §§
153.130 and
153.132 of this code.
   (E)   General prohibitions.
      (1)   No sign shall be allowed that prevents ingress or egress from any
door, window or fire escape; that tends to accumulate debris as a fire hazard;
or that is attached to a standpipe or fire escape or in any other way
constitutes a hazard to health, safety or general welfare of the public.
      (2)   Signs shall not be painted directly on the outside wall of a
building except by a sign permit. Signs shall not be placed or mounted on a
fence, tree, stone or other natural growth nor on any utility pole or
structure.
      (3)   Roof signs are prohibited in all zoning districts.
      (4)   Signs on benches, newsstands, car stands, bus stop shelters and
similar places shall be prohibited.
      (5)   No sign shall contain any indecent or offensive picture or written
matter.
      (6)   Signs flashing shall be prohibited.
      (7)   Neon and fluorescent signs are not allowed except for interior use.
   (F)   Sign design, construction and maintenance.
      (1)   Required marking on signs. Every sign for which a permit is
required shall have painted in a conspicuous place thereon in letters not less
than one inch in height, the date of erection, the permit number and the
voltage of any electrical apparatus used in connection therewith.
      (2)   Projecting signs. Signs shall in no case project from a building or
structure to any point closer than two feet of a line drawn perpendicularly
upward from the curb line. No projecting sign shall be less than nine feet
above the sidewalk or the ground level. All projecting signs for which a permit
is required shall be constructed entirely of fire-resistant material.
      (3)   Ground signs.
         (a)   No ground sign for which a permit is required shall be erected
to a height of more than 12 feet above the ground, unless the face is
constructed of sheet metal or other noncombustible facing materials.
         (b)   The bottom of the facing of every ground sign shall be a minimum
of one foot and a maximum of three feet above the ground, which space may be
filled with landscaping, platform or decorative trim of light wood or metal
construction.
         (c)   The soil used for the dug-in type of anchor or post support
shall be carefully placed and thoroughly compacted. The anchors and supports
shall penetrate to a depth below ground level of 42 inches.
      (4)   Multi-faced signs. Multi-faced signs shall not exceed two times the
allowed square footage of single faced signs, except for billboard signs which
shall be limited to single facing.
      (5)   Wall signs. Wall signs attached to exterior walls of solid masonry
or concrete shall be safely and securely attached to the same by means of metal
anchors, bolts or expansion screws of not less than three-eighths inch in
diameter which shall be embedded at least five inches. No wooden blocks or
anchorage with wood used in connection with screws or nails shall be considered
proper anchorage, except in the case of wall signs attached to buildings with
walls of wood. No wall sign shall be entirely supported by an unbraced parapet
wall.
      (6)   Sign maintenance. The owner of any sign shall be required to have
the sign properly painted at least once every two years, if needed, including
all parts and supports of the sign, unless the parts or supports are galvanized
or otherwise treated to prevent rust or decay. The owner or lessee of any sign,
or the owner of the land on which the sign is located shall keep the grass,
weeds or other growth cut and the area free from refuse between the sign and
the street and also for a distance of six feet all around the sign.
      (7)   Unsafe or dangerous signs. Any sign which becomes structurally
unsafe, in disrepair, abandoned or endangers the safety of a building or
premises shall be taken down and removed or structurally improved by the owner,
agent or person having the beneficial use of the building, structure or land
upon which the sign is located within ten days after written notification from
the Zoning Administrator.
      (8)   Obsolete signs. Any sign for which no permit has been issued or
business has ceased to function shall be taken down and removed by the owner,
agent or person having the beneficial use of the building, or land upon which
the sign may be found within 30 days after written notice from the Zoning
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 12-210) (Ord. 01-2014, passed 5-20-2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
Cross-reference:
   Signs in heritage preservation areas, see §
161.56
   Street signs, see § 160.084
§ 153.131 REGULATIONS BY ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Required signs. In all zoning districts, one nameplate sign shall be
required per building, except accessory structures and residential buildings
which shall be required only to display the street address or property number.
   (B)   Signs by conditional use permit. Where a use is permitted in a zoning
district by conditional use permit, the sign for that use shall require a
conditional use permit unless the sign is otherwise provided for in this
subchapter.
   (C)   A, AP and MS Zoning Districts. No sign shall be permitted in an A, AP
or MS Zoning District except the following signs if authorized by a permit or
as provided in this subchapter.
      (1)   Banner, business, nameplate, political, portable, real estate
sales, religious organization, temporary, wall and warning signs are allowed.
      (2)   No sign shall be so constructed as to have more than two surfaces.
      (3)   One of each of the permitted type signs, except temporary signs
where two shall be permitted and political signs where one for each candidate,
shall be permitted per lot frontage.
      (4)   The size of sign may be no more than a total of 32 square feet,
with an eight-foot maximum for any dimension except as otherwise provided in §
153.130(D)(2) of this code.
      (5)   The top of the sign and supporting structure shall not exceed ten
feet above grade except as otherwise provided in §
153.130(D)(2) of this code.
      (6)   Any sign over two square feet shall be setback at least ten feet
from any lot line or right-of-way.
   (D)   RR Zoning District.
      (1)   Gateway, nameplate, political, portable, real estate sales,
religious organization, temporary, wall and warning signs are allowed.
      (2)   No sign shall be so constructed as to have more than two surfaces.
      (3)   The number of each type of sign allowed per lot frontage is one of
each of the permitted type signs, except temporary signs where two shall be
permitted and political signs where one for each candidate shall be permitted.
      (4)   The size of signs may be not more than a total of 16 square feet
with a four-foot maximum for any dimension except as otherwise provided in this
section. The total surface area for all signs shall not exceed 32 square feet
per lot except as otherwise provided in §
153.130(D)(2) of this code.
      (5)   The top of the sign shall not exceed eight feet above grade except
as otherwise provided in §
153.130(D)(2) of this code.
      (6)   The number and size of a gateway sign is exempted from this section
of the code and is instead regulated in §
153.132(F).
      (7)   All signs shall be setback at least ten feet from any lot line or
right-of-way.
   (E)   VHS-R and VHS-C Zoning Districts.
      (1)   All applications for a sign permit shall be reviewed by the Design
Review/Heritage Preservation Commission.
      (2)   The types of signs allowed are banner (VHS-C only), business (VHS-
C only), illuminated (VHS-C only), nameplate, political, portable, real estate
sales, religious organization, temporary, wall and warning.
      (3)   The number of each type of sign allowed per lot frontage, is one
real estate sales sign, two temporary signs, one nameplate sign, one political
sign for each candidate and one business sign or one sign for a church or other
place of worship.
      (4)   The size of signs permitted is as follows.
         (a)   Each real estate sales sign, temporary sign and political sign
shall not exceed 16 square feet in area.
         (b)   Total area of permanent business signs shall not exceed 16
square feet.
         (c)   Total area of nameplate signs shall not exceed six square feet.
         (d)   In addition to the total sign area of 16 square feet, one eight-
inch by ten-inch sign may be posted on the outside of the principal structure.
         (e)   The total surface area of all on-premises signs for churches or
other places of worship shall not exceed 100 square feet. The top of the signs
and supporting structures shall not exceed 14 feet above the average grade. The
width of the signs shall not exceed 16 feet. The maximum square feet for any
sign shall not exceed one-tenth square feet per foot of frontage.
      (5)   The top of the sign shall not exceed 14 feet above the average
grade.
      (6)   In no case shall any part of a sign be closer than two feet to a
vertical line drawn at the property line.
   (F)   Industrial (I) Zoning Districts.
      (1)   The type of signs allowed are advertising, banner, business,
illuminated, nameplate, political, portable, real estate sales, religious
organization, temporary, wall and warning.
      (2)   The number of each type of sign allowed per lot frontage is one of
each of the permitted type signs, except temporary where two shall be permitted
and political where one for each candidate shall be permitted.
      (3)   No business sign shall exceed 100 square feet in area or face a
Residential Zoning District. No other sign shall exceed 35 square feet in area,
except a billboard sign.
      (4)   The top of the sign shall not exceed 20 feet above the average
grade.
      (5)   Any sign over ten square feet, with the exception of a billboard
sign, shall be set back at least ten feet from any lot line or right-of-way.
All signs shall be set back at least 50 feet from any Residential or
Agricultural Zoning District.
(Prior Code, § 12-211) (Ord. 1997-19, passed 7-15-1997; Ord. 09-2006, passed 9-
13-2006; Ord. 01-2014, passed 5-20-2014)
§ 153.132 REGULATIONS BY SIGN TYPE.
   (A)   Banner signs.
      (1)   Banner signs shall conform to the provisions of this subchapter
just as permanently affixed signs.
      (2)   Banners shall not exceed 30 square feet.
      (3)   In no event shall banner signs be placed on any lot or parcel of
land for a period to exceed 30 days out of any 12-month period.
   (B)   Billboard signs.
      (1)   No billboard sign may face a Residential District causing it to
obscure the residents’ view.
      (2)   There shall be no more than one advertisement on the face of the
billboard sign. The sign may not be multi-faced.
      (3)   Any billboard sign is limited to one side and the advertising area
on that one side is not to exceed 160 square feet.
      (4)   The sign structure, including border, trim and apron, is not to
exceed 20 feet overall height. The bottom of the sign is to be no more than
eight feet from the ground.
      (5)   The sign area is not to exceed eight feet by 20 feet (160 square
feet). The structure, including the border, trim and apron is not to exceed ten
and one-half feet by 22 feet (231 square feet.)
      (6)   Any off-site billboard sign is to be a minimum of 3,000 feet from
any other billboard, business or nameplate sign.
      (7)   The setback shall be 150 feet from any public road right-of-way,
100 feet from any building, a minimum of 500 feet from the intersection of any
public road.
      (8)   Billboard signs are permitted only in the Industrial Zoning
District.
   (C)   Construction signs.
      (1)   Construction signs not exceeding 32 square feet in area shall be
allowed in all zoning districts during construction.
      (2)   These signs shall be removed when the project is substantially
completed.
   (D)   Displays.
      (1)   A sign permit is required for all displays.
      (2)   Displays shall not contain any light, sign, audio advertising or
other device which would otherwise not be permitted under this subchapter.
      (3)   Permanent displays shall not be permitted.
      (4)   No display shall be allowed that prevents ingress or egress from
any door, window or fire escape; that tends to accumulate debris as a fire
hazard; or that is attached to a standpipe, fire escape or in any other way
constitutes a hazard to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
      (5)   Displays cannot reduce the number of required parking spaces
established by the current parking ordinance. Displays cannot be located within
the public right-of-way of any street or way or other public right-of-way or
placed so as to interfere with pedestrian traffic.
      (6)   Roof displays are not allowed.
      (7)   Displays cannot be located outside a ten-foot radius from the
building or structure. In no case shall displays be closer than ten feet from
any property line or right-of-way. All displays must be located on the same
parcel on which the business is located.
      (8)   No display shall be permitted which by reason of content, location,
shape or overall impression interfere with or serve as a traffic hazard or
disturbance to surrounding properties.
      (9)   The top of the display shall not exceed eight feet above the
average grade.
      (10)   Exceptions may be granted to permit displays for preexisting
nonconforming uses if it is determined that no intensification or expansion of
the nonconforming use would occur if the permit were granted.
   (E)   Electrical signs. No electrically illuminated sign shall be permitted
in a Residential or Agricultural Zoning District except as otherwise provided
in §
153.130(D)(2) of this code.
      (1)   Illuminated signs may be permitted, but flashing signs or digitally
animated signs, shall be prohibited. Signs giving off intermittent, rotating or
direction lights and neon are prohibited.
      (2)   Illuminated signs shall be diffused or indirect so as not to direct
rays of light into adjacent property or onto any public street or way.
      (3)   No illuminated signs or their support structures shall be located
closer than 25 feet to the roadway surface or closer than ten feet to a street
right-of-way line or property line, notwithstanding more restrictive portions
of this section, except as otherwise provided in §
153.131(E).
   (F)   Gateway signs. The city may consider proposals to construct city
gateway signage that serve the purpose of welcoming persons to the city and
directing them to various business areas. Approval or denial of the proposals
shall be at the discretion of the City Council. The following performance
standards shall be adhered to and utilized in the city’s consideration of a
proposal.
      (1)   The sign is to be constructed on city and/or county owned property
and/or right-of-way and may be owned and maintained by the city and/or county.
      (2)   The sign shall function as a “gateway” feature for the city. The
design of the sign must include a visible reference to the city and exude a
feeling of welcome.
      (3)   The sign shall be a monument sign, which is a type or style of a
ground sign that is characterized by a block-type structure, not supported or
elevated above ground by poles or braces.
      (4)   The sign area shall not exceed 100 square feet.
      (5)   The sign shall not exceed 12 feet in height.
      (6)   The sign shall be finished in high-quality finish materials.
      (7)   The signage design shall be reviewed and commented on by the Design
Review/Heritage Preservation Commission if the sign is located within the VHS
District.
   (G)   Nameplate signs.
      (1)   Nameplate signs shall be surface-mounted on the wall of the
building of the property.
      (2)   Nameplate signs shall be no more than six square feet in area.
   (H)   Off-premises directional signs for public and non-profit
organizations, including religious organizations.
      (1)   Signs for public and non-profit organizations, including religious
organizations are permitted.
      (2)   Signs advertising commercial businesses are prohibited.
      (3)   Each sign shall not exceed 20 inches by 30 inches. Signs shall be
erected on a single steel post.
      (4)   The setback required for public and non-profit organizations,
including religious organization signs in Agricultural, Industrial and Rural
Residential Districts, is ten feet from property line or right-of-way; in VHS
Districts, two feet from property line.
      (5)   The number of signs allowed for public or non-profit organizations,
including religious organizations, shall be determined through the sign permit
process.
      (6)   A sign permit is required.
   (I)   Political signs.
      (1)   Political signs are allowed in any zoning district, on private
property, with the consent of the owner of the property.
      (2)   Political signs must be removed within seven days following the
date of the election or elections to which they apply.
   (J)   Portable sign. A portable sign shall only give the name and nature of
the business and hours of operation.
      (1)   There shall be no more than one portable sign per business.
      (2)   Portable signs shall not be larger than 36 inches by 48 inches (12
square feet) of display space on each side with a total height of no more than
four feet. The size of a portable sign shall not be included in the total
square footage allowed on other permitted signs.
      (3)   A sign permit shall be required for all portable signs. In the VHS
District, approval by the Design Review/Heritage Preservation Commission is
also required for portable signs.
      (4)   All portable signs shall be located on the same parcel on which the
business is located. The sign shall not be located in the road right-of-way or
placed so as to interfere with pedestrian traffic.
      (5)   Portable signs and mobile signs on wheels shall be in place only
during the hours the business is open.
      (6)   Portable signs and mobile signs on wheels must be secured so as to
not create a public safety hazard by acts of nature or movement by vandals.
      (7)   Inflatable signs are not permitted.
   (K)   Private signs. Private signs, other than public utility warning signs,
are prohibited within the public right-of-way of any street or way or other
public right-of-way.
   (L)   Real estate signs.
      (1)   Real estate sales signs may be placed in any yard providing the
signs are not closer than ten feet to any property line.
      (2)   Real estate development project sales signs may be erected for the
purpose of selling or promoting a single-family residential project of five or
more dwelling units provided:
         (a)   These signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and shall
require a sign permit;
         (b)   Only one sign shall be erected on each road frontage with a
maximum of two signs per project;
         (c)   These signs shall be removed when the project is 80% completed
or within six months or when sold or leased, whichever comes first; and
         (d)   These signs shall not be located closer than 100 feet to any
existing residence.
   (M)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Signs for non-profit organizations, city sponsored events, fairs
and the like are permitted.
      (2)   Signs advertising businesses are prohibited.
      (3)   The maximum size of temporary signs is 12 square feet of total
advertising area.
      (4)   The sign structure is not to exceed five feet.
      (5)   The setback required for temporary signs in Agricultural and Rural
Residential Districts is ten feet from property line or right-of-way; in VHS
Districts, two feet from property line.
      (6)   No more than two temporary signs are allowed per parcel.
      (7)   A temporary sign permit is required.
      (8)   In no event, however, shall the sign be placed on any lot or parcel
of land for a period to exceed 30 days out of any 12-month period.
   (N)   Traffic signs.
      (1)   No sign may be erected that, by reason of position, shape,
movement, color or any other characteristic, interferes with the proper
functioning of a traffic sign or signal or otherwise constitutes a traffic
hazard; nor shall signs be permitted which would otherwise interfere with
traffic control.
      (2)   No sign shall be permitted which by reason of advertising content,
location, shape or overall impression may be expected to be confused with,
obscure or interfere with any official traffic sign or device or otherwise
serve as a traffic hazard.
      (3)   Private traffic circulation sign and traffic warning signs in
alleys, parking lots or in other hazardous situations may be allowed on private
property, provided that the signs do not exceed three square feet and are used
exclusively for traffic control purposes.
(Prior Code, § 12-211.5) (Ord. 09-2006, passed 9-13-2006; Ord. 01-2014, passed
5-20-2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.133 SIGN PERMIT CHART.
Key:
Key:
CC    Required City Council review and approval
CUP   Conditional use permit (issued by Zoning Administrator)
N     Not allowed
P     Permitted use
SP    Sign permit (issued by Zoning Administrator
Zoning District Abbreviations
A     Agricultural Zoning District
AP    Ag. Preserve, which is an overlay of the Agricultural Zoning District
I     Industrial Zoning District
MS    Marine Services Zoning District
RR    Rural Residential Zoning District
VHS-C Village Historic Site: Commercial Zoning District
VHS-R Village Historic Site: Residential Zoning District
Zoning District MS, A or AP RR VHS-R VHS- C I
Zoning District                                MS, A or AP RR  VHS-R VHS- C I
Advertising/billboard sign                     N           N   N     N      CUP
Banner sign                                    SP          N   N     SP     SP
Churches and other places of worship, on-      CUP         N   CUP   P      P
premises signs
Displays                                       CUP         CUP CUP   CUP    N
Flashing sign                                  N           N   N     N      N
Gateway sign                                   CC          CC  CC    CC     CC
Illuminated sign                               N           N   CUP   CUP    P
Motion sign                                    N           N   N     N      N
Nameplate sign                                 P           P   N     SP     P
Off-premises directional signs (non-profit and SP          SP  SP    SP     SP
religious)
Political sign                                 P           P   P     P      P
Portable sign                                  SP          SP  SP    SP     SP
Real estate development project sales sign     SP          SP  SP    SP     N
Real estate sales sign (over 9 square feet in  SP          SP  SP    SP     SP
area)
Real estate sales sign (up to 9 square feet in P           P   P     P      P
area)
Roof sign                                      N           N   N     N      N
Temporary sign                                 SP          SP  SP    SP     SP
Wall sign                                      P           P   SP    SP     SP
Warning sign                                   P           P   P     P      P
 
(Prior Code, § 12-212) (Ord. 1997-19, passed 7-15-1997; Ord. 97-40, passed 6-
12-2001; Ord. 01-2014, passed 5-20-2014)
WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 153.145 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the installation and operation
of a Wind Energy Conversion System (WECS) within the city not otherwise subject
to siting and oversight by the state under the state’s Power Plant Siting Act
(M.S. §§ 216E.001 through 216E.18, as they may be amended from time to time).
(Prior Code, § 12-229) (Ord. 05-2010, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 10-2010, passed
11-16-2010)
§ 153.146 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A-WEIGHTED. A specific weighting of the sound pressure level for the purpose
of determining the human response to sound.
   dB(A). A unit of sound level expressed in decibels (dB) and A-weighted.
   L10. The sound level, expressed in dB(A)which is exceeded 10% of the time
for a one-hour period, as measured by test procedures approved by the Director
of the MPCA.
   L50. The sound level, expressed in dB(A) which is exceeded 50% of the time
for a one-hour period, as measured by test procedures approved by the Director
of the MPCA.
   NACELLE. Compartment containing the electrical generator.
   ROTOR DIAMETER. The diameter of the circle described by the moving rotor
blades.
   TOTAL HEIGHT OF WECS. The total height shall be measured from the
surrounding grade at the base of the tower before construction to the highest
component of each WECS.
   TOWER FOR WECS. The vertical structure that supports the electrical
generator or rotor blades.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). An electrical generating facility
comprised of one wind turbine and accessory facilities, including but not
limited to: power lines, transformers and substations that operate by
converting the kinetic energy of wind into electrical energy. The energy may be
used on-site and/or distributed into the electrical grid.
   WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine is any electrical generating equipment that
converts the kinetic energy of blowing wind into electrical energy.
(Prior Code, § 12-229) (Ord. 05-2010, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 10-2010, passed
11-16-2010)
§ 153.147 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Safety design standards.
      (1)   Engineering certification. For each WECS, the manufacturer’s
engineer or another qualified engineer shall certify that the turbine,
foundation and tower design of the WECS is within accepted professional
standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
      (2)   Clearance. Rotor blades or airfoils must maintain at least 12 feet
of clearance between their lowest point and the ground.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Generating capacity. A WECS of no more than 40 kW in total name
plate generating capacity shall be permitted in the city.
      (2)   Number per lot. No more than one WECS per lot shall be permitted.
      (3)   Tower configuration. Each WECS shall be installed with monopole or
lattice tower type; no guyed towers shall be permitted.
      (4)   Height. Total height shall not exceed 135 feet from grade existing
at the base of the tower prior to construction or grading.
      (5)   Property line setback. The setback from all property lines and
other structures shall be one and one-half times the tower height plus the
minimum accessory structure setback as defined in §
153.051 of this code.
      (6)   Color and finish. All wind turbines and towers that are part of a
WECS shall be white, grey or another non-obtrusive color. Finishes shall be
matte or non-reflective.
      (7)   Lighting. No tower requiring a light shall be allowed. Lighting of
or on the tower shall be prohibited.
      (8)   Signage. No signage shall be permitted on each WECS with the
exception that the manufacturer’s or owner’s company name and/or logo may be
placed upon the nacelle.
      (9)   Waste disposal. Solid and hazardous wastes, including but not
limited to crates, packaging materials, damaged or worn parts, as well as used
oils and lubricants, shall be removed from the site promptly and disposed of in
accordance with all applicable local, state and federal regulations.
      (10)   Discontinuation and decommissioning. A WECS shall be considered a
discontinued use after 180 days without energy production, unless a plan is
developed and submitted to the City Administrator outlining the steps and
schedule for returning the WECS to service. Each WECS and any accessory
facilities shall be removed to four feet below ground level within 90 days of
the decommissioning of use. The site shall be restored to its pre-existing
condition.
      (11)   Orderly development. Upon issuance of a conditional use permit,
each WECS applicant shall notify the appropriate state agency of the project
location and details.
   (C)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Noise.
         (a)   The following standards which shall include ambient noise shall
be measured and applied at all property lines.
 
Day                       Night
(7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.) (10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.)
L10   L50                 L10   L50
65 dB 60 dB               55 dB 50 dB
 
         (b)   The applicant shall provide a statement listing the existing and
maximum future projected measurements of noise from the proposed WECS for the
following:
            1.   Existing or ambient noise; and
            2.   Existing plus proposed WECS: maximum estimate of noise from
the proposed WECS plus the existing noise environment.
         (c)   No WECS shall be operated in a manner as to create a noise level
exceeding the decibel limit set in Table 1 (see §
153.097 of this code) at any location outside the parcel on which the WECS is
located.
      (2)   Electrical codes and standards. Each WECS and any accessory
equipment and facilities shall comply with the National Electrical Code and
other applicable standards.
      (3)   Federal aviation administration. Each WECS shall comply with FAA
standards and permits.
      (4)   State Building Code. Each WECS shall comply with the International
Building Code as adopted by the state.
      (5)   Interference. The applicant shall minimize or mitigate interference
with electromagnetic communications, such as radio, telephone, microwaves or
television signals caused by any WECS. The applicant shall notify all
communication tower operators within two miles of the proposed WECS location
upon application to the city for permits. No WECS shall be constructed so as to
interfere with city, county or state’s Department of Transportation microwave
transmissions.
(Prior Code, § 12-229) (Ord. 05-2010, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 10-2010, passed
11-16-2010) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.148 REQUIRED PERMITS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall erect, construct in place, re-
erect, replace or make structural repairs to any tower without making
application for and receiving an approved conditional use or administrative
permit and building permit, when applicable.
   (B)   In all cases, review by the Zoning Administrator and Building Official
are required to ensure that necessary administrative permits and conditional
use permits are applied for and reviewed under the procedures established in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-229) (Ord. 05-2010, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 10-2010, passed
11-16-2010) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.149 SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following information is required.
   (A)   The names of project applicant;
   (B)   The name of the project owner;
   (C)   The legal description and address of the project;
   (D)   A description of the project including number, type, name plate
generating capacity, tower height, rotor diameter and total height of all wind
turbines and means of interconnecting with the electrical grid, if applicable;
   (E)   Site layout, including the location of property lines, wind turbines,
electrical wires, interconnection points with the electrical grid and all
related accessory structures. The site layout shall include distances and be
drawn to scale;
   (F)   Engineer’s state certification and project design specifications; and
   (G)   Documentation of land ownership or legal control of the property.
(Prior Code, § 12-229) (Ord. 05-2010, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 10-2010, passed
11-16-2010)
§ 153.150 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   WECS shall not be allowed in the VHS District. WECS shall be
administratively permitted in all other zoning districts.
(Prior Code, § 12-229) (Ord. 05-2010, passed 6-15-2010; Ord. 10-2010, passed
11-16-2010)
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 153.165 SCOPE.
   This subchapter applies to all solar energy installations in the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-230) (Ord. 03-2015, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 153.166 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Consistent with the city’s Comprehensive Plan, the intent of this
subchapter is to allow reasonable capture and use, by households, businesses
and property owners, of their solar energy resource, and encourage the
development of renewable energy businesses, consistent with community
development standards.
   (B)   The city has adopted this subchapter for the following purposes:
      (1)   Comprehensive Plan goals. To meet the goals of the Comprehensive
Plan and preserve the health, safety and welfare of the city’s citizens by
promoting the safe, effective and efficient use of active solar energy systems
installed to reduce the on-site consumption of fossil fuels or utility-supplied
electric energy. The following solar energy standards specifically implement
the following goals:
         (a)   Encourage the use of local renewable energy resources, including
appropriate applications for wind, solar and biomass energy; and
         (b)   Promote sustainable building design and management practices in
residential, commercial and industrial buildings to serve the needs of current
and future generations.
      (2)   Green house gas reduction (GHG). Solar energy is an abundant,
renewable and nonpolluting energy resource and its conversion to electricity or
heat shall reduce our dependence on nonrenewable energy resources and decrease
the green house gas (GHG) emissions and other air and water pollution that
results from the use of conventional energy sources;
      (3)   Local resource. Solar energy is an under-used local energy
resource. Encouraging the use of solar energy shall diversify the community’s
energy supply portfolio and limit exposure to fiscal risks associated with
fossil fuels; and
      (4)   Improve competitive markets. Solar energy systems offer additional
energy choice to consumers and shall improve competition in the electricity and
natural gas supply market.
(Prior Code, § 12-230) (Ord. 03-2015, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 153.167 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS. An active solar energy system that
is an integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a
separate mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or
structural component of the building. BUILDING-INTEGRATED SYSTEMS include but
are not limited to photovoltaic or hot water solar energy systems that are
contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights and awnings.
   COMMUNITY SOLAR. A solar-electric (photovoltaic) array that provides retail
electric power (or a financial proxy for retail power) to multiple community
members or businesses residing or located off-site from the location of the
solar energy system, consistent with M.S. § 216B.1641, or successor statute, as
it may be amended from time to time. A COMMUNITY SOLAR system may be either an
accessory or a principal use.
   GRID-INTERTIE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A photovoltaic solar energy system that
is connected to an electric circuit served by an electric utility company.
   OFF-GRID SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A photovoltaic solar energy system in which
the circuits energized by the solar energy system are not electrically
connected in any way to electric circuits that are served by an electric
utility company.
   PASSIVE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that captures solar light
or heat without transforming it to another form of energy or transferring the
energy via a heat exchanger.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. A solar energy system that converts solar energy
directly into electricity.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY EASEMENT, SOLAR ENERGY EASEMENT. An easement that limits
the height or location, or both, of permissible development on burdened land on
which the easement is placed in terms of a structure or vegetation, or both,
for the purpose of providing access for the benefited land to wind or sunlight
passing over the land on which the easement is placed, as defined in M.S §
500.30 subdivision 3, or most recent version, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy or wind energy system. RENEWABLE
ENERGY SYSTEMS do not include passive systems that serve a dual function, such
as a greenhouse or window.
   ROOF PITCH. The final exterior slope of a building roof calculated by the
rise over the run, typically but not exclusively expressed in twelfths such as
3/12, 9/12, 12/12.
   SOLAR ACCESS. Unobstructed access use of the solar resource (see definition
below) on a lot or building, including access across adjacent parcel air
rights, for the purpose of capturing direct sunlight to operate a solar energy
system.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure or a part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical or electrical energy.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR SURFACE. Any part of a solar collector that absorbs solar
energy for use in the collector’s energy transformation process. COLLECTOR
SURFACE does not include frames, supports and mounting hardware.
   SOLAR DAYLIGHTING. A device specifically designed to capture and redirect
the visible portion of the solar spectrum, while controlling the infrared
portion, for use in illuminating interior building spaces in lieu of artificial
lighting.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY DEVICE. A system or series of mechanisms designed primarily to
provide heating, cooling, electrical power, mechanical power, solar daylighting
or to provide any combination of the foregoing by means of collecting and
transferring solar generated energy into uses either by active or passive
means. The systems may also have the capability of storing energy for future
utilization. Passive solar energy systems are designed as a SOLAR ENERGY
DEVICE, such as a trombe wall, and not merely a part of a normal structure such
as a window.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A device or structural design feature, a substantial
purpose of which is to provide for the collection, storage and distribution of
sunlight for space heating or cooling, generation of electricity, water heating
or providing daylight for interior lighting.
   SOLAR FARM. A commercial facility that converts sunlight into electricity,
whether by photovoltaics (PV), concentrating solar thermal devices (CST), or
other conversion technology, for the primary purpose of wholesale sales of
generated electricity. A SOLAR FARM is the principal land use for the parcel on
which it is located.
   SOLAR HEAT EXCHANGER. A component of a solar energy device that is used to
transfer heat from one substance to another, either liquid or gas.
   SOLAR HOT AIR SYSTEM. An active solar energy system that includes a solar
collector to provide direct supplemental space heating by heating and re-
circulating conditioned building air. The most efficient performance typically
uses a vertically-mounted collector on a south-facing wall.
   SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEM (also referred to as SOLAR THERMAL). A system that
includes a solar collector and a heat exchanger that heats or preheats water
for building heating systems or other hot water needs, including residential
domestic hot water and hot water for commercial processes.
   SOLAR MOUNTING DEVICES. Racking, frames or other devices that allow the
mounting of a solar collector onto a roof surface or the ground.
   SOLAR RESOURCE. A view of the sun from a specific point on a lot or building
that is not obscured by any vegetation, building or object for a minimum of
four hours between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. standard time on any
day of the year.
   SOLAR STORAGE UNIT. A component of a solar energy device that is used to
store solar generated electricity or heat for later use.
(Prior Code, § 12-230) (Ord. 03-2015, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 153.168 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All solar energy systems shall comply with all applicable local, state and
federal regulatory codes including all electrical, building and plumbing code
requirements.
   (A)   Permitted accessory use. Active solar energy systems shall be allowed
as accessory to the primary land use in all zoning districts in which
structures of any sort are allowed and are designed to supply energy for the
primary use.
   (B)   Solar access. The city encourages solar access to be protected in all
new subdivisions and allows for existing solar to be protected consistent with
state statutes.
      (1)   Right to solar access.
         (a)   No structure shall be erected that shall block solar access for
existing principal structures or infringe on the solar access of the buildable
area of a vacant lot or parcel.
         (b)   No homeowners’ agreement, covenant, common interest community or
other contract between multiple property owners shall forbid installation of
solar energy systems or create design standards that effectively preclude solar
energy installations.
      (2)   Easements allowed. The city has elected to allow solar easements to
be filed, consistent with M.S. § 500.30, as it may be amended from time to
time. Any building owner can purchase an easement across neighboring properties
to protect access to sunlight. The easement is purchased from or granted by
owners of neighboring properties and can apply to buildings, trees or other
structures that would diminish solar access.
      (3)   Subdivision solar easements. The city may require new subdivisions
to identify and create solar easements when solar energy systems are
implemented as a condition of a PUD, subdivision, conditional use or other
permit, as specified in Section 8.
   (C)   Safety conditions. All applicable health and safety standards shall be
met.
   (D)   Required permits. Building permits, electrical permits and/or plumbing
permits are required to construct and install solar energy systems in the city,
whether residential or commercial and whether ground-, pole-, building- or
roof-mounted. Electrical permits are obtained through the state. Building and
plumbing permit applications are obtained through the city and shall include:
      (1)   To-scale horizontal and vertical (elevation) drawings of the solar
energy system, including:
         (a)   For a pitched roof-mounted system, the highest finished slope of
the solar collector and the slope of the finished roof surface on which it is
mounted.
         (b)   For a flat roof-mounted system, the distance to the roof edge or
parapets on the building, identifying the height of the building on the street
frontage side, the shortest distance of the system from the street frontage
edge of the building, and the highest finished height of the solar collector
above the finished surface of the roof and/or parapet.
      (2)   Site drawing showing the type and locations of the systems and
their placement on the property, including required setbacks and property
lines.
   (E)   Interconnection agreement.
      (1)   All electric solar energy systems that are connected to the
electric distribution or transmission system through the existing service of
the primary use on the site shall obtain an interconnection agreement with the
electric utility in whose service territory the system is located.
      (2)   Solar energy systems connected directly to the distribution or
transmission system must obtain an interconnection agreement with the
interconnecting electric utility. Off-grid systems are exempt from this
requirement.
(Prior Code, § 12-230) (Ord. 03-2015, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 153.169 STANDARDS.
   All solar energy systems are subject to the accessory use standards for the
district in which it is located, including, but not limited to, setback, height
and coverage limits.
   (A)   Aesthetic. Solar energy systems are subject to the following aesthetic
standards.
      (1)   Installation on residential structures must be designed to blend
into the architecture of the building.
      (2)   Installation on commercial structures shall be placed on the roof
to limit visibility from the public right-of-way or to blend into the roof
design, provided that minimizing visibility still allows the property owner to
reasonably capture solar energy.
      (3)   The color of the solar collector is not required to be consistent
with other roofing materials.
      (4)   Active solar energy systems that do not meet the aesthetic
standards shall require a conditional use permit.
   (B)   Size. For residential applications, under no circumstances shall a
solar array exceed 40 kW.
   (C)   Height.
      (1)   Building- or roof-mounted systems. Shall not exceed the maximum
height allowed in any zoning district.
         (a)   Shall be no higher than 24 inches above the roof.
         (b)   For purposes of height measurement, solar systems other than
building-integrated systems shall be considered to be mechanical devices and
are restricted consistent with other building- mounted mechanical devices for
the zoning district in which the system is being installed, except that solar
energy systems shall not be required to be screened.
      (2)   Ground- or pole-mounted systems. Shall not exceed 20 feet in height
when oriented at maximum tilt.
   (D)   Set-backs. Active solar energy systems must meet the accessory
structure setback for the zoning district and primary land use associated with
the lot on which the system is located.
      (1)   Building- or roof-mounted systems.
         (a)   In addition to the building setback, the collector surface and
mounting devices for roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not extend beyond
the exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is mounted or built,
unless the collector and mounting system has been explicitly engineered to
safely extend beyond the edge, and setback standards are not violated.
         (b)   Exterior piping for solar hot water systems shall be allowed to
extend beyond the perimeter of the building on a side yard exposure.
      (2)   Ground- or pole-mounted systems. Must be set back from the property
line the same distance as required for other accessory structures and may not
extend into the side- or rear-yard setback when oriented at minimum design
tilt.
   (E)   Impervious coverage. The surface area of pole- or ground-mount systems
must comply with the city’s overall impervious coverage requirements.
Impervious coverage shall be calculated based on the footprint of the system at
minimum tilt.
      (1)   Building- or roof-mounted systems. Shall allow for adequate roof
access to the south-facing or flat roof upon which the panels are mounted.
      (2)   Ground- or pole-mounted system. The collector surface of any
foundation, compacted soil or other component of the solar installation is
considered impervious surface.
      (3)   Stormwater runoff. Vegetated ground under the collector surface
shall be used to mitigate stormwater runoff.
   (F)   Glare. All solar energy systems shall minimize glare to minimize the
effect on adjacent or nearby properties. Measures to minimize glare include
selective placement of the system, screening on the north and/or sides of the
solar array, modifying the orientation of the system, reducing use of the
reflector system or other remedies that limit glare. The selection and
requirement of such measures shall be at the sole discretion of the city.
   (G)   Historic buildings. Solar energy systems on buildings within
Designated Historic Districts or on locally designated historic buildings
(exclusive of state or federal historic designation) shall require an
administrative permit and a design review by the Heritage Preservation
Commission (HPC).
(Prior Code, § 12-230) (Ord. 03-2015, passed 8-18-2015; Ord. 04-2022, passed
12-20-2022)
§ 153.170 ZONING DISTRICT AND LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   VHS Districts.
      (1)   For ground-mounted systems, the maximum solar panel square footage
allowed is 150 square feet or 1% of the total square footage of the lot,
whichever is less.
      (2)   Roof-mounted systems solar panel square footage is not restricted,
however, it may be limited by the size of the roof or the roof structure.
      (3)   Must meet city historical preservation standards.
      (4)   Requires an administrative permit and design review by the Heritage
Preservation Commission (HPC).
   (B)   Rural Residential (RR) and Agriculture (Ag) Districts.
      (1)   On lots up to ten acres:
         (a)   If not fully screened: A maximum height of 15 feet at maximum
vertical tilt and a total panel square footage of 300 square feet, at the
required setback; and
         (b)   If fully screened: A maximum height of 20 feet and a total panel
square footage that provides up to 120% of the documented energy usage of the
property, subject to being fully screened from public roads and neighboring
properties, and subject to statutory and/or public utility power generation
restrictions. For residential applications, under no circumstances shall a
solar array exceed 40kW.
      (2)   On lots ten to 20 acres:
         (a)   If not fully screened:
            1.   A maximum height of 15 feet at maximum vertical tilt and a
total panel square footage of 300 square feet, at the required setback; and
            2.   A maximum height of 15 feet and a total panel square footage
of 500 square feet if setback 200 feet from all property lines, subject to
statutory and/or public utility power generation restrictions.
         (b)   If fully screened: A maximum height of 20 feet and a total panel
square footage that provides up to 120% of the documented energy usage of the
property, subject to statutory and/or public utility power generation
restrictions, at the required setback. For residential applications, under no
circumstances shall a solar array exceed 40kW.
      (3)   On lots 20 acres or greater:
         (a)   If not fully screened:
            1.   A maximum height of 20 feet at maximum vertical tilt and a
total panel square footage of 300 square feet, at the required setback;
            2.   A maximum height of 20 feet and a total panel square footage
of 500 square feet if setback 200 feet from all property lines, subject to
statutory and/or public utility power generation restrictions; and
            3.   A maximum height of 20 feet and a total panel square footage
750 square feet if setback 250 feet from all property lines, subject to
statutory and/or public utility power generation restrictions.
         (b)   If fully screened: A maximum height of 20 feet and a total panel
square footage that provides up to 120% of the documented energy usage of the
property if fully screened, subject to statutory and/or public utility power
generation restrictions, at the required setback. For residential applications,
under no circumstances shall a solar array exceed 40kW.
   (C)   Industrial Districts.
      (1)   Rooftop community systems are permitted only in the Industrial
Districts.
      (2)   Ground-mount community solar energy systems are allowed only in the
Industrial Districts and are allowed as conditional uses.
      (3)   Solar farms are only allowed in the Industrial Districts.
(Prior Code, § 12-230) (Ord. 03-2015, passed 8-18-2015; Ord. 04-2022, passed
12-20-2022)
§ 153.171 SOLAR USE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Community solar energy systems. Roof- or ground-mount solar energy
systems, may be either accessory or primary use, designed to supply energy for
off-site uses on the distribution grid, consistent with M.S. § 216B.1641 or
successor statute, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   Rooftop community systems are permitted only in the Industrial
Districts.
      (2)   Ground-mount community solar energy systems are allowed only in the
Industrial Districts and are allowed as conditional uses.
      (3)   An interconnection agreement must be completed with the electric
utility in whose service territory the system is located.
      (4)   All structures must comply with setback, height and coverage
limitations for the district in which the system is located.
      (5)   Ground-mount systems must comply with all required standards for
structures in the district in which the system is located.
   (B)   Solar farms.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   Solar farms are only allowed in the Industrial Districts.
         (b)   Solar farms require a conditional use permit.
         (c)   Solar farms are subject to the city’s stormwater management and
erosion and sediment control provisions and National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit requirements.
      (2)   Foundations. A qualified engineer shall certify that the foundation
and design of the solar panels racking and support is within accepted
professional standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
      (3)   Power and communication lines. Power and communication lines
running between banks of solar panels and to nearby electric substations or
interconnections with buildings shall be buried underground. Exemptions may be
granted by the city in instances where shallow bedrock, water courses or other
elements of the natural landscape interfere with the ability to bury lines, or
distance makes undergrounding infeasible, at the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator.
      (4)   Site plan required. A detailed site plan for both existing and
proposed conditions must be submitted, showing location of all solar arrays,
other structures, property lines, rights-of-way, service roads, floodplains,
wetlands and other protected natural resources, topography, electric equipment
and all other characteristics requested by the city. The site plan shall also
show all zoning districts and overlay districts.
      (5)   Aviation protection. For solar farms located within 500 feet of an
airport or within the A or B safety zones of an airport, the applicant must
complete and provide the results of the Solar Glare Hazard Analysis Tool
(SGHAT) for the Airport Traffic Control Tower cab and final approach paths,
consistent with the Interim Policy, FAA Review of Solar Energy Projects on
Federally Obligated Airports, or most recent version adopted by the FAA.
      (6)   Agricultural protection. Solar farms must comply with site
assessment or soil identification standards that are intended to protect
agricultural soils.
      (7)   Proper maintenance. All solar installations shall be maintained
according to industry standards and shall be in working order for the duration
of its useful life.
(Prior Code, § 12-230) (Ord. 03-2015, passed 8-18-2015) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.172 DISCONTINUATION AND DECOMMISSIONING.
   (A)   A decommissioning plan shall be required to ensure that facilities are
properly removed if they are known to be dysfunctional or are discontinued
after their useful life.
   (B)   Decommissioning of solar panels must occur in the event they are not
in use for six consecutive months.
   (C)   The plan shall include provisions for removal of all structures and
foundations, restoration of soil and vegetation and a plan ensuring financial
resources shall be available to fully decommission the site.
   (D)   Disposal of structures and/or foundations shall meet the provisions of
the city’s solid waste ordinance.
   (E)   The city may require the posting of a bond, letter of credit or the
establishment of an escrow account to ensure proper decommissioning.
(Prior Code, § 12-230) (Ord. 03-2015, passed 8-18-2015)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter or the violation of the
conditions or provisions of any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof the violator shall be subject to
punishment in accordance with §
10.99 of this code. Unless otherwise provided, each act of violation and every
day on which the violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 12-59)
   (B)   Any owner who fails to implement corrective measures to the
satisfaction of the City Council according to §
153.058 of this code within one year of notice shall be subject to a fine of
not more than $1,000. The City Council may recover the penalty by a civil
action in a court of competent jurisdiction. Costs incurred by the city in the
enforcement of this section may be charged to the property owner. Charges not
timely paid may be placed on the tax rolls and collected as a special
assessment against the property.
(Prior Code, § 12-139)
   (C)   The penalty for a violation of §
153.115 of this code shall be a misdemeanor.
   (D)   In addition to penalty provisions in division (D) above, the
administrative fines for violations of §
153.115 of this code shall be as established by the City Council in the annual
fee schedule.
   (E)   Section 10.99 of this code shall apply to a violation of §
153.097 of this code.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-17-2020)
CHAPTER 154: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Connection to individual subsurface septic treatment system (ISTS) and
community septic treatment systems
   
154.04   Connection to large subsurface treatment system (LSTS)
   
154.05   Inspections
   
154.06   Enforcement
   
154.07   Appeals or variance requests
   
154.08   ISTS located in a floodplain and/or subject to flooding
   
154.09   Septic system compliance and inspection
Public Sewage Treatment Systems
   
154.20   Unlawful surface discharge
   
154.21   Unlawful connection to public sewage treatment system, permit
   
154.22   Unlawful discharge to LSTS
   
154.23   Pretreatment, control and refusal of extraordinary wastes
   
154.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Septic permits regarding zoning, see §
153.032
   Sewers and subdivisions, see §
160.082
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Protecting the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
community, present and future and in accordance with the city’s SDS, and where
applicable, NPDES permit; and
   (B)   Regulating the discharge of wastes into soil treatment units and
associated collection systems which would have an adverse effect on the
operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment facilities.
(Prior Code, § 12-1951)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE MAINTENANCE. A maintenance program for individual sewage treatment
systems whereby the property owner has complete responsibility for effecting
operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) in a manner acceptable to the
city.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lower horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer which begins at
least one foot outside the building line.
   BUILDING SEWER. The part of the drainage system which extends from the end
of the building drain and conveys its discharge to the public sewer, private
sewer, individual sewage-disposal system or other point of disposal.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The amount of oxygen required for organic
material breakdown. It is often used as a gauge for organic water quality.
   COMMUNITY SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A sewage treatment system which collects
sewage from two or more residences or other establishments, consisting of
collector lines, pumps, sewage tanks and soil treatment unit. Also known as a
CLUSTER SYSTEM or COLLECTOR SYSTEM.
   EASEMENT. A legal transfer of rights, privileges or uses of private
property.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNITS (ERU). Wastewater charges will be established
based on EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNITS (ERU). One ERU is defined as a unit of
wastewater volume of 240 gallons per day with a theoretical waste strength of
300 mg/l of BOD, 200 mg/l of TSS and 50 mg/l O&G.
   GARBAGE. Solid waste resulting from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage or sale of meat,
fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables and condemned food.
   HISTORIC VILLAGE SEWAGE TREATMENT SERVICE AREA (HVSTSA). The part of the
city served by the publicly operated large subsurface/sewage treatment system
as shown in the Comprehensive Plan.
   INDIVIDUAL SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM (ISTS) or ON-SITE SEWAGE
TREATMENT SYSTEM.
      (1)   An individual sewage treatment system or part thereof, as set forth
in M.S. §§ 115.03 and 115.55, as they may be amended from time to time, that
employs sewage tanks or other treatment devices with final discharge into the
soil below the natural soil elevation or elevated final grade that are designed
to receive a sewage design flow of 5,000 gallons per day or less.
      (2)   ISTS includes the holding tanks and privies, but does not include
any pump tanks used in a sewage collection system. ISTS does not include
building sewers or other components regulated under Minn. Rules part 4715, or
sewage collection systems.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The solid, liquid or gaseous waste resulting from
industrial or manufacturing processes, trade or business or from the
development, recovery or processing of natural resources.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly-owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   LARGE SUBSURFACE/SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM (LSTS). A subsurface collection and
sewage treatment system that employs sewage tanks or other treatment devices
with final discharge into the soil below the natural soil elevation or elevated
final grade and that is designed to receive sewage design flow of greater than
10,000 gallons per day.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTES. Wastes which are characterized by a per
capita discharge of 75 gallons per day at a loading of 300 mg per liter BOD,
200 mg per liter TSS and 50 mg per liter O&G.
   O&G (also known as FOG). Oil and grease (or fat, oil and grease), a
component of sewage typically originating from foodstuffs such as animal fats
or vegetable oils or consisting of compounds of alcohol or glycerol with fatty
acids such as soaps and lotions, typically expressed in mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment system, throughout the useful life
of the treatment works and at the level of performance for which the treatment
works were constructed. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
   OTHER WASTES. Garbage, municipal refuse, decayed wood, sawdust, shavings,
bark, lime, sand, ashes, oil, tar, chemicals, offal and all other substances
except sewage or industrial waste.
   PASSIVE MAINTENANCE. A maintenance program for community sewage treatment
systems whereby the community in which the treatment system is situated is
responsible for conducting operation, maintenance and replacement in a manner
acceptable to the city.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater,
surface water and groundwater are not intentionally discharged.
   SANITARY WASTE. The liquid and water carried wastes discharged from sanitary
plumbing facilities.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage, industrial wastes or other
waste liquids.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, forcemains and all
other devices and appliances appurtenant thereto, used for collecting or
conducting sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes to a point of ultimate
disposal.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flow during normal operation.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system as
defined by M.S. § 115.01, subdivision 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards pursuant to § 307(a) of the Clean Water
Act.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Clean water uncontaminated by industrial wastes, other
wastes or any substance which renders water unclean or noxious or impure so as
to be actually or potentially harmful or detrimental, or injurious to public
health, safety or welfare; to domestic, commercial, industrial or recreational
uses; or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
   WASTEWATER FACILITY. The structures, equipment or processes required to
collect, convey and treat domestic and commercial waste and dispose of the
effluent.
(Prior Code, § 12-1952) (Ord. 08-2010, passed 9-21-2010; Ord. 04-2015, passed
9-15-2015)
§ 154.03 CONNECTION TO INDIVIDUAL SUBSURFACE SEPTIC TREATMENT SYSTEM (ISTS) AND
COMMUNITY SEPTIC TREATMENT SYSTEMS.
   All improved properties not located in the Historic Village Sewage Treatment
Service Area shall be connected to a compliant ISTS, per Minnesota Rules.
(Prior Code, § 12-1953)
§ 154.04 CONNECTION TO LARGE SUBSURFACE TREATMENT SYSTEM (LSTS).
   (A)   This chapter shall apply and be in effect for the stated purposes
within the Historic Village Sewage Treatment Service Area, as shown in the
Comprehensive Plan. Any property outside of the HVSTSA shall be connected to an
individual subsurface sewage treatment system (ISTS) meeting the requirements
of §
153.032 of this code or to a community sewage treatment system approved under
the authority of the city.
   (B)   The sewer permit fee and sewer connection charges shall be established
by the city, as outlined in the city’s fee schedule.
   (C)   At the time the LSTS becomes available to properties within the
HVSTSA, the City Engineer shall contact the property owner in writing notifying
them of the availability of the LSTS and requesting completion of a sewer
permit and to schedule a connection. Properties previously connected to the
“201” community sewage treatment system or with existing ISTS which are failing
to adequately treat sewage, posing a hazard to the public health or otherwise
deemed by the city to be non-compliant shall connect within 60 days from when
the LSTS becomes available.
      (1)   In the case when it is not clear whether an existing ISTS is
compliant; if a property owner is not able to demonstrate that the existing
ISTS is compliant, a compliance inspection is required within 30 days.
      (2)   If the compliance inspection does not find that the ISTS is
compliant, or if the property owner fails to obtain a compliance inspection
within 30 days, the property shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system
within 60 days.
   (D)   At the time a property within the HVSTSA with an ISTS is sold,
transferred or otherwise disposed of, the property shall connect to the LSTS
within 60 days.
   (E)   All properties located in the HVSTSA shall be connected to the LSTS no
later than December 31, 2024.
   (F)   Properties within the HVSTSA where construction is proposed for a new
structure with a building drain requiring sewage treatment shall not be granted
final building permit approval without the issuance of a sewer permit to
connect to the LSTS system.
   (G)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the state’s building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in the
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and
Water Pollution Control Federation (WPCF) Manual of Practice No. 9, shall
apply.
   (H)   If ground conditions do not reasonably allow a connection to sewer
within the required 60-day period, i.e. the ground is frozen, an extended time
for connection could be allowed, as determined by the city.
   (I)   A non-compliant ISTS that is not connected within the required
timeline shall be subject to a fee, and the fee shall be as set out in the
city’s fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 12-1954) (Ord. 02-2019, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 154.05 INSPECTIONS.
   Inspections of ISTS, community systems or connections to LSTS, including
inspections to determine unlawful connections and unlawful discharge to LSTS,
as required to determine compliance with this chapter shall be performed by the
City Administrator or his or her agent under the following circumstances.
   (A)   Duly authorized employees of the city shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with §
10.20 of this code and the provisions of this chapter. Those employees shall
have no authority to inquire into processes including metallurgical, chemical,
oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries except as is necessary to
determine the kind and source of the discharge to the public sewer.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of a property shall be responsible to provide
access at reasonable times, to the City Administrator or his or her agent, for
the purpose of performing inspections required under this chapter.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private property as referred to
in division (A) above, the authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises.
   (D)   Fees for inspections, maintenance or other services rendered under
this chapter shall be as set by resolution of the City Council from time to
time.
   (E)   The city may issue construction stop work orders until stormwater
management measures meet specifications and the applicant repairs any damage
caused by stormwater runoff. An inspection by the community must follow before
the construction project work can resume.
   (F)   The city can take any combination of the following actions in the
event of a failure by the applicant to meet the terms of this chapter:
      (1)   Withhold inspections or issuance of certificates or approvals;
      (2)   Revoke any permit issued by the city to the applicant;
      (3)   Conduct remedial or corrective action on the development site or
adjacent site affected by the failure;
      (4)   Charge the applicant for all costs associated with correcting the
failure or remediating damage from the failure; if payment is not made within
30 days, payment will be made from the applicant’s financial securities; and/or
      (5)   Bring other actions against the applicant to recover costs of
remediation or meeting the terms of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-1955) (Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017; Ord. 02-2019, passed
6-18-2019) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Administrator and his or her agent shall be responsible for
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The City Administrator or his or her agent shall be qualified and
certified by the MPCA as competent in the design, evaluation and inspection of
ISTS and connections to LSTS and shall carry a current individual sewage
treatment system certificate and a current class C operator’s certificate.
(Prior Code, § 12-1957) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.07 APPEALS OR VARIANCE REQUESTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals and review any order,
decision or determination made by the City Administrator and his or her agent
regarding the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The City Council shall hear and act upon all rate adjustment and
variance requests.
   (C)   Any appeal of an administrative decision or determination may be filed
by any person, department, bureau, town, city, county or state which is
aggrieved by the decisions.
(Prior Code, § 12-1957)
§ 154.08 ISTS LOCATED IN A FLOODPLAIN AND/OR SUBJECT TO FLOODING.
   ISTS located in a floodplain and/or subject to flooding shall be prohibited
from being used during periods when the system does not meet the required
three-foot separation from groundwater that is necessary to properly treat
wastewater and/or any part of the system is inundated with water in order that
wastewater may be released into the floodwaters, with the exception that a
water-tight septic tank that can be disconnected and sealed off from the
drainfield and regularly pumped to prevent wastewater from being released into
the floodwaters could continue to be used.
(Ord. 02-2019, passed 6-18-2019) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 SEPTIC SYSTEM COMPLIANCE AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   In addition to the septic system compliance inspection regulations
detailed in § 8.10, Ch. 4 of the county’s Subsurface Sewage Treatment System
(SSTS) Regulations, Ord. 196, the city does hereby require existing septic
systems to be inspected for compliance when any building permit application is
made for work:
      (1)   That has a valuation of over $75,000; or
      (2)   That has a value that is more than 40% of the assessed value of the
principal structure on the property.
   (B)   A septic inspection must be conducted to ensure compliance with
applicable requirements, unless the owner can document that the septic system
has passed an inspection within the last ten years.
(Ord. 10-2016, passed 10-18-2016)
PUBLIC SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS
§ 154.20 UNLAWFUL SURFACE DISCHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter and the city’s National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-1981) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.21 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM, PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect a building sewer to the large
subsurface treatment system in the HVSTSA without first obtaining a sewer
permit from the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1982) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.22 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO LSTS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged directly or
indirectly any waste which, by volume or strength or nature, may harm the LSTS
facility or cause obstruction to the free flow in sewers or endanger life or
cause a nuisance.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged directly or
indirectly any stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, waste
from on-site disposal systems, unpolluted cooling or processing water to the
LSTS except as permitted by the city.
   (C)   No person shall connect a sump pump to the LSTS. Unlawful connections
shall be subject to penalty, per city’s fee schedule.
   (D)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted water shall be discharged to a
storm sewer or to the ground surface, and as allowed by MPCA.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged directly or
indirectly to any treatment system the following substances:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited
to: gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols,
ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides,
hydrides and sulfides;
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the wastewater treatment works;
      (3)   Any water or waste having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and people;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances, either whole or ground, in quantities
or of a size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the sewers, or other
interference with the proper continuation of the wastewater facilities such as,
but not limited to, ashes, cinders, disposable diapers, glass grinding or
polishing wastes, stone cuttings or polishing wastes, sand, mud, straw,
shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage,
whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, sanitary napkins,
paper dishes, cups, milk containers and other paper products;
      (5)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or substances which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance or repairs; and/or
      (6)   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, including
wastes which may adversely affect the permeability of soils, such as dairy
products and blood.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged directly or
indirectly the following described substances to the LSTS unless, in the
opinion of the city, the discharge will not harm the wastewater facilities, nor
cause obstruction to free flow in the LSTS, nor otherwise endanger life, limb
or public property, nor constitute a nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the
acceptability of the wastes, the city may give consideration to factors as the
materials or construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment facilities, the city’s SDS permit,
and other pertinent factors. The city may make the determination either on a
general basis or as to discharges from individual users or specific discharges,
and may prohibit certain discharges from individual users because of unusual
concentrations or combinations which may occur. The substances include:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature in excess of 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 50 milligrams per liter or containing
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F
and 150°F (0°C and 65°C). Any garbage that has not been ground or comminuted to
the degree that all particles will be carried freely in suspension under flows
normally prevailing in the public sewers, with no particles greater than one-
half inch in any dimension. Commercial sources shall have a grease interceptor
internal or external prior to discharge. O&G must be intercepted prior to
discharge;
      (3)   Any water or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not; substances not
intended for use in household cleaning, including but not limited to solvents,
pesticides, flammables, photo finishing chemicals, paint and dry-cleaning
chemicals and medicines;
      (4)   Chemically-treated hot tub and all pool water; floor drains from
garages;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances which constitute a nuisance or hazard to the structures,
equipment or personnel of the sewage works, or which interfere with the
treatment required to meet the requirements of the state or federal government,
or any other public agency with proper authority to regulate the discharge from
the sewage treatment plant;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration that they are not in compliance with regulations issued by the
appropriate authority having control over their use or may cause damage or
hazards to the treatment works or personnel operating it;
      (7)   Any water or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5; and
      (8)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of suspended solids, (such as, but not
limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD or chemical oxygen demand in the quantities as to
constitute a significant load on the wastewater treatment facilities; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of waste constituting a
slug.
(Prior Code, § 12-1984) (Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 02-2019, passed
6-18-2019) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.23 PRETREATMENT, CONTROL AND REFUSAL OF EXTRAORDINARY WASTES.
   (A)   If any water or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged directly or indirectly to the LSTS, which water or wastes do not
meet the standards set out in or promulgated under this section, or which in
the judgment of the city may have a deleterious effect upon the treatment
facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters or which otherwise create
a hazard to life, or constitute a public nuisance, the city may take all or any
of the following steps:
      (1)   Refuse to accept the discharges;
      (2)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
      (3)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for the discharge
to the public sewers; or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling or treating the
wastes.
   (B)   The design and installation of a plant or equipment for pretreatment
or equalization of flows shall be subject to the review and approval of the
city, and subject to the requirements of 40 C.F.R. part 403, entitled
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedure for the Analysis of Pollutants, and the
state’s Pollution Control Agency.
      (1)   Grease, oil and mud interceptors shall be provided when they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease
in excessive amounts, as specified in §
154.22 of this code, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the city and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Where preliminary treatment, flow equalization or interceptors are
required for any water or waste, they shall be effectively operated and
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective condition by the owner at
his or her expense and shall be available for inspection by the city at all
reasonable times.
      (3)   When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
structure together with the necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. These structure and equipment, when required, shall be constructed at
the owner’s expense in accordance with plans approved by the city and shall be
maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
      (4)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
water and waste to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136, Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures
for the Analysis of Pollutants; the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and shall be determined at the control
structure provided, or upon suitable samples taken at the control structure. If
no special structure has been required, the control structure shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer from the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effluent constituents and their
effect upon the treatment works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, health and property. Sampling methods location, times, durations and
frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by
the city.
      (5)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this chapter and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with the federal, state and local standards are being
met. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and
reporting required by the city. At the times as deemed necessary, the city
reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside
laboratory.
      (6)   New connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient flow capacity is available in all downstream facilities.
      (7)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern, providing that national categorical pretreatment standards
and the city’s NPDES and/or state disposal system permit limitations are not
violated.
(Prior Code, § 12-1985) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to violate any term or
provision of this chapter. All violations and penalties of this chapter shall
following the procedures set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   If no action or remedy is made regarding making a required connection
to the LSTS, the city will make that connection to the LSTS and shall assess
the cost of connection to benefitting properties.
   (C)   Any person failing to comply with or violating any regulations in §
154.05 of this code, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to
a fine or imprisonment or both. Each day that a separate violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 12-1958) (Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
CHAPTER 155: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
Section
Charges Established
   
155.01   Sewer utility and connection charges
   
155.02   Equivalent residential units (ERU)
   
155.03   Annual user charge rates
   
155.04   Records
Determination of Charges
   
155.15   Recovery of costs
   
155.16   Fees and payments
   
155.17   Septic tank effluent pumping surcharge
   
155.18   Fees for unusual wastes
   
155.19   Toxic or incompatible waste clean-up
   
155.20   Establishment of special accounts
Administration
   
155.35   Applicability of wastewater service charge system
   
155.36   Enforcement
   
155.37   Appeals and variances
Failure to Make Payment
   
155.50   Interest on unpaid balances
   
155.51   Permit revocation and service disconnection
   
155.52   Effective date
 
   
155.99   Penalty
CHARGES ESTABLISHED
§ 155.01 SEWER UTILITY AND CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Sewer utility charge. The city hereby establishes a sewer utility
charge system whereby revenue collected from users of the LSTS will be used to
offset all expenditures incurred for administration, annual operation and
maintenance and equipment replacement.
   (B)   Sewer connection charge.
      (1)   The city hereby establishes a sewer connection charge whereby a
one- time connection fee will be collected from new properties to cover the
costs related to capital investments in the LSTS.
      (2)   New properties shall include any properties connected to the LSTS
that were not originally assessed for the construction, including those newly
created lots through lot split or subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 12-2201) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 155.02 EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNITS (ERU).
   (A)   Wastewater charges will be established based on equivalent residential
units (ERU). One ERU is defined as a unit of wastewater volume of 240 gallons
per day with a theoretical waste strength of 300 mg/l of BOD, 200 mg/l of TSS
and 50 mg/L O&G. The assignment of ERUs will be made by the city. Commercial
properties will have multiple units as identified by the City Administrator or
his or her agent.
   (B)   Users may appeal the number of ERUs assigned to a particular
connection by installing and maintaining, at their own expense, water meters of
a type approved by the city. The meters shall be equipped with remote
registering recorders located at an accessible site on the owner’s property.
   (C)   (1)   The city may, at its discretion require nonresidential users to
install water meters for the purpose of determining wastewater volume. The city
may require residential connections to install water or wastewater meters
within the HVSTSA as part of a comprehensive program to install meters.
      (2)   When so required, the meters shall be of a type approved by the
city and equipped with remote registering recorders, and located at an
accessible site on the owner’s property.
(Prior Code, § 12-2202) (Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 04-2015, passed
9-15-2015)
§ 155.03 ANNUAL USER CHARGE RATES.
   At the beginning of each calendar year, the city will update its user charge
rates as part of the city’s fee schedule approval.
(Prior Code, § 12-2203) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 155.04 RECORDS.
   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the City Administrator
will be responsible for maintaining all records necessary to document with the
wastewater service charge system adopted.
(Prior Code, § 12-2204) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
DETERMINATION OF CHARGES
§ 155.15 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   It is the intent of this subchapter that the wastewater service charges
shall cover the costs of operating and maintaining the wastewater systems, and
that costs are recovered from all users in a proportionate manner. The city
shall maintain a proper system of accounts suitable for determining the
operation and maintenance and equipment replacement costs of the collection and
treatment facilities. These costs shall be reviewed at regular annual
intervals. The city shall determine whether or not sufficient revenue is being
generated for the effective operation and maintenance and management of the
wastewater system, and that user charges are being distributed proportionately
to all users. Any inequities and/or shortages shall be corrected by adjusting
the rates accordingly by resolution of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-2211) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 155.16 FEES AND PAYMENTS.
   All users of the wastewater treatment facilities shall be charged for sewer
service based on the number of equivalent residential units assigned. Payment
shall be rendered in full within 30 days of the billing date.
(Prior Code, § 12-2212) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 155.17 SEPTIC TANK EFFLUENT PUMPING SURCHARGE.
   An additional fee shall be charged to users of the community sewage
treatment system who, for whatever reason, require septic tank pumping more
frequently than once in two years. The surcharge for frequent pumping shall be
at the same rate, either per tank or per gallon, as established by contract for
the routine pumping of each septic tank on the community sewage treatment
system.
(Prior Code, § 12-2214) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 155.18 FEES FOR UNUSUAL WASTES.
   If a user discharges wastes of unusual strength or character to the
treatment facilities which cause or increase the operation and maintenance
costs, he or she shall be ordered either to install pretreatment facilities or
pay for the extra costs of treating the wastes. This decision will be made by
the city, prior to the time the user begins to discharge extra strength wastes.
(Prior Code, § 12-2215) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 155.19 TOXIC OR INCOMPATIBLE WASTE CLEAN-UP.
   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of toxics
or other incompatible wastes, including the costs of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean-up and restoration of ground and surface water and
environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger(s) of the
wastes, at no expense to the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-2216) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 155.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL ACCOUNTS.
   The city hereby establishes a Wastewater Service Fund into which all revenue
collected from users will be deposited for disbursements into the General
Operating Fund and the Replacement Fund. For the purpose of community and cost
accounting records, this fund is designated as an income account. Revenue
sufficient to ensure adequate replacement shall be held in the replacement fund
separate from the Operation and Maintenance Fund proportionately to each fund.
(Prior Code, § 12-2217) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.35 APPLICABILITY OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   This subchapter shall apply and be in effect for the stated purposes within
the historic village sewage treatment service area in the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-2226) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 155.36 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall be responsible for administration and
enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The City Administrator or his or her agent shall be qualified and
certified by the MPCA as competent in the design, evaluation and inspection of
the following sewage treatment systems as overseen or regulated by the city:
      (1)   Large subsurface/sewage treatment systems, and shall carry a
current large subsurface/sewage treatment system certificate and a current
class C operator’s certificate;
      (2)   Individual on-site sewage treatment systems, and shall carry a
current individual sewage certificate and a current Class D operation’s
certificate; and
      (3)   Community sewage treatment systems.
(Prior Code, § 12-2227) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 155.37 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   The city shall hear and decide appeals and review any order, decision
or determination made by the City Administrator regarding the enforcement of
this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall hear and act upon all rate
adjustment and variance requests.
   (C)   Any appeal of an administrative decision or determination may be filed
by any person, department, bureau, town, city, county or state which is
aggrieved by a decision.
(Prior Code, § 12-228) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
FAILURE TO MAKE PAYMENT
§ 155.50 INTEREST ON UNPAID BALANCES.
   (A)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable to
recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner or user of
the real estate being served by the treatment works shall be liable for
interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate set forth in the city’s fee
schedule.
(Prior Code, § 12-2237)
   (B)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect that:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within ten
days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (C)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (D)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
(Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 155.51 PERMIT REVOCATION AND SERVICE DISCONNECTION.
   The city reserves the right to revoke discharge permits and to disconnect
service to any user whenever wastewater treatment becomes unacceptable or
negatively impacts the LSTS.
(Prior Code, § 12-2238) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 155.52 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter took effect upon passage and
publication.
(Prior Code, § 12-2239) (Ord. 04-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any bill not paid four weeks after date of billing shall be declared
delinquent and a past-due notice shall be issued to the billed party. The past-
due notice shall contain an additional charge to cover the costs of the
rebilling. Additional delinquent notices including their respective charges
shall be sent at eight and 12 weeks after the billing date.
   (B)   Should a bill still be delinquent after 120 days, the city may elect
to take the following actions.
      (1)   Delinquent bills. Whenever wastewater service charge bills become
delinquent, the amount due shall be certified to the County Auditor for
inclusion with the following year’s tax statement.
      (2)   Lien. Whenever wastewater treatment bills become delinquent the
same shall become and constitute a lien upon the real estate to which sewer
service is supplied. Statements rendered for this charge shall be deemed notice
to all parties, whether or not the person charged with the statement is the
property served. The claim for lien shall be made in the form of a sworn
statement setting forth:
         (a)   A description of the real estate, sufficient for the
identification thereof, upon or for which the sewage service was supplied;
         (b)   The amount of money due for sewage service; and
         (c)   The date or dates when the amount or amounts became delinquent.
If all amounts shown due remain unpaid after recording as provided by state
statutes, the city may foreclose the lien in the same manner and with the same
effect as the foreclosing of mortgages on real estate.
      (3)   Civil action. In the alternative of levying a lien, the city may,
at its discretion, file suit in a civil action to collect the amounts as are
delinquent and due against the occupant or user of the real estate and shall
collect, as well, all attorney’s fees incurred by the city in filing the civil
action. The attorney’s fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
(Prior Code, § 12-2236) (Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-21-2009; Ord. 04-2015, passed
9-15-2015)
CHAPTER 156: SHORELAND MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Statutory authorization
   
156.002   Policy
   
156.003   Jurisdiction
   
156.004   Compliance
   
156.005   Enforcement
   
156.006   Interpretation
   
156.007   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
156.008   Definitions
Administration
   
156.020   Permits required
   
156.021   Certificate of zoning compliance
   
156.022   Variances
   
156.023   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources
Classification Systems
   
156.035   Basis of classification
   
156.036   Criteria for designation
   
156.037   Land use district descriptions
   
156.038   Use, upgrading of inconsistent land use districts
Zoning and Water Supply Sanitary Requirements
   
156.050   Lot area and width standards
   
156.051   Placement of structures on lots
   
156.052   Design criteria for structures
   
156.053   Height of structures
   
156.054   Shoreland alterations
   
156.055   Vegetation alterations
   
156.056   Topographic alterations; grading and filling
   
156.057   Placement and design of roads, driveways and parking areas
   
156.058   Stormwater management
   
156.059   Agricultural use standards
   
156.060   Special uses
   
156.061   Water supply
   
156.062   Sewage treatment
Nonconformities
   
156.075   Nonconforming uses
   
156.076   Construction on nonconforming lots of record
   
156.077   Additions and expansions to nonconforming structures
Subdivision Requirements
   
156.090   Land suitability
   
156.091   Consistency with other controls
   
156.092   Information requirements
   
156.093   Dedications
   
156.094   Platting
   
156.095   Controlled access or recreational lots
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and policies contained
in M.S.§§ 103F.201 through 103F.227, as it may be amended from time to time,
Minn. Rules parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900, and the planning and zoning
enabling legislation in M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 12-276)
§ 156.002 POLICY.
   (A)   The uncontrolled use of shorelands of the city affects the public
health, safety and general welfare not only by contributing to pollution of
public waters, but also by impairing the local tax base. Therefore, it is in
the best interests of the public health, safety and welfare to provide for the
wise subdivision, use and development of shorelands of public waters.
   (B)   The state legislature has delegated responsibility to local
governments of the state to regulate the subdivision, use and development of
the shorelands of public waters and thus preserve and enhance the quality of
surface waters, conserve the economic and natural environmental values of
shorelands, and provide for the wise use of waters and related land resources.
This responsibility is hereby recognized by the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-277)
§ 156.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the shorelands of the public
waterbodies as classified in §
156.035 of this code. Pursuant to Minn. Rules parts 6120.2500 through
6120.3900, no lake, pond or flowage less than ten acres in size in
municipalities or 25 acres in size in unincorporated areas need be regulated in
a local government’s shoreland regulations. A body of water created by a
private user where there was no previous shoreland may, at the discretion of
the Council, be exempt from this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-278)
§ 156.004 COMPLIANCE.
   The use of any shoreland of public waters; the size and shape of lots; the
use, size, type and location of structures on lots; the installation and
maintenance of water supply and waste treatment systems, the grading and
filling of any shoreland area; the cutting of shoreland vegetation; and the
subdivision of land shall be in full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-279)
§ 156.005 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Zoning Administrator is responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-280) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.006 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the Council and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other powers granted by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 12-281)
§ 156.007 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
   (B)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other law, ordinance, statute, resolution or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are most restrictive or which impose higher standards or
requirements shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 12-282)
§ 156.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment having the
following characteristics:
      (1)   Is a slope of 18% or greater as measured over horizontal distances
of 50 feet or more;
      (2)   The slope drains toward the waterbody; and
      (3)   Part or all of the feature is located in the shoreland area.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 40 feet from the top of a
bluff.
   BLUFFLINE. A line along the top of a slope connecting the points at which
the slope, proceeding away from the water, becomes less than 18% and it only
includes slopes greater than 18% visible from the waterbody. The location of
the BLUFFLINE for any particular property shall be certified by the Zoning
Administrator who may require certification by a registered land surveyor. All
setbacks required shall be applicable to each BLUFFLINE.
   BOATHOUSE. A structure designed and used solely for the storage of boats or
boating equipment.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water
level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development as defined by this chapter which
may be allowed as provided by this chapter.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A land use or development as defined by ordinance
that would not be appropriate generally but may be allowed with appropriate
restrictions as provided by official controls upon a finding that certain
conditions as detailed in Ch. 153 of this code, exist, the use or development
conforms to the comprehensive and use plan of the community, and the use is
compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site and at any point extending more than three feet above
ground.
   DUPLEX. A dwelling structure on a lot having two units, being attached by
common walls and each unit equipped with separate sleeping, cooking, eating,
living and sanitation facilities, and meeting the density requirements.
   DWELLING SITE. A designated location for residential use by one or more
persons using temporary or moveable shelter, including camping and recreational
vehicle sites.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any structure or portion of a structure, or other shelter
designed as short or long-term living quarters for one or more persons,
including rental or timeshare accommodations such as motel, hotel, bed and
breakfast and resort rooms and cabins.
   EARTHEN TONE. Shades of brown or green which blend with the surrounding
vegetation so as to be visually inconspicuous from the water during summer
months.
   EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of land for surface or subsurface removal of sand,
gravel, rock, industrial minerals, other nonmetallic minerals and peat not
regulated under M.S. §§ 93.44 through 93.51, as they may be amended from time
to time.
   FOREST LAND CONVERSION. The clear cutting of forested lands to prepare for a
new land use other than reestablishment of a subsequent forest stand.
   FOREST MANAGEMENT. The primary use of the land is for commercial timber
production.
   GUEST COTTAGE. Is not permitted in any zoning district.
   HARDSHIP. The same as that term is defined in M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   INDUSTRIAL USES. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row or block.
   LOT. A parcel of land designated by plat, metes and bounds, registered land
survey, auditor’s plat or other accepted means and separated from other parcels
or portions by the description for the purpose of sale, lease or separation.
   LOT COVERAGE. The portion of a lot covered by any structures, driveway,
parking facility or any impervious surface.
   LOT WIDTH. Three hundred feet of frontage on an improved public road and at
the ordinary high water mark.
   NONCONFORMITY. Any legal use, structure or parcel of land already in
existence, recorded or authorized before the adoption of official controls or
amendments thereto that would not have been permitted to become established
under the terms of the official controls as now written, if the official
controls had been in effect prior to the date it was established, recorded or
authorized.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of public waters and wetlands, and
shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel. For reservoirs and flowages, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. Is not permitted in any zoning district.
   PROTECTED WATER. Any water as defined in M.S. § 645.44, subdivision 8a, and
M.S. § 103G.005, subdivision 15a, as they may be amended from time to time.
   PUBLIC WATER. Any waters as defined in M.S. § 645.44, subdivision 8a, and
M.S. § 103G.005, subdivision 15a, as they may be amended from time to time.
   SCENIC EASEMENT, also referred to as a NATURAL PROTECTION EASEMENT. An
easement dedicated by a developer restricting the use of lands with steep
slopes, floodprone areas as well as other fragile areas. The purpose of the
SCENIC EASEMENT is to protect environmentally sensitive lands.
      (1)   SCENIC EASEMENTS shall be required on slopes of 18% and greater,
wetlands, drainageways and other lands and soils judged to be fragile by the
soil conservation service. The easements shall be required as a condition of
subdivision approval, and shall prohibit the following activities:
         (a)   Dumping;
         (b)   Burning;
         (c)   Grading;
         (d)   Grazing of domesticated farm animals;
         (e)   Vegetative cutting;
         (f)   Motorized vehicles; and
         (g)   Construction of any structure, including driveways.
      (2)   The SCENIC EASEMENTS shall be recorded against the affected lots in
the subdivision.
      (3)   The city shall have the right to reasonable access to easement
areas to verify compliance with the restrictions, and to cross adjacent lands
in common ownership with the easement area to obtain access.
      (4)   A SCENIC EASEMENT prohibits the owner from engaging in harmful
activities in the area subject to the easement, but does not grant the general
public any right of access to the land.
   SEMIPUBLIC USE. The use of land by a private, nonprofit organization to
provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the
regular constituency of the organization.
   SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over groundwater or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding or occurrence of flora or fauna in
need of special protection.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system or other facility and an ordinary high water level, sewage
treatment system, top of a bluff, road, highway, property line or other
facility.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A septic tank and soil absorption system as
described in §
156.062 of this code.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations and force main and all
other construction, devices, appliances or appurtenances used for conducting
sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate disposal.
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the structure
setback.
   SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public waters:
1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond or flowage; and
300 feet from a river or stream or the landward extent of a floodplain
designated by ordinance on a river or stream, whichever is greater. The limits
of SHORELANDS may be reduced whenever the waters involved are bounded by
topographic divides which extend landward from the waters for lesser distances
and when approved by the Commissioner.
   SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITE. Any archaeological site, standing structure or
other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register
of Historic Places or is listed in the state’s Register of Historic Sites, or
is determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of
M.S. § 307.08, as it may be amended from time to time. A historic site meets
these criteria if it is presently listed on either register or if it is
determined to meet the qualifications for listing after review by the State
Archaeologist or the Director of the state’s Historical Society. All unplatted
cemeteries are automatically considered to be SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITES.
   SPECIAL PROTECTION DISTRICT. Properly managed development in areas generally
unsuitable for development or uses due to flooding, erosion, limiting soil
conditions, steep slopes or other major physical constraints. It also means
management and preservation of areas with special historical, natural or
biological characteristics.
   STRUCTURE. Any building or appurtenance, including decks, swimming pools,
tennis courts or anything constructed or erected the use of which requires
location on the ground or attached to something having location on the ground.
   SUBDIVISION. Land that is divided for the purpose of sale, rent or lease.
   VARIANCE. The same as that term is defined or described in M.S. Ch. 462, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   WETLANDS. Those lands which are transitional between terrestrial and aquatic
systems where the water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is
covered by shallow water. A WETLAND has one or more of the following
attributes.
      (1)   At least periodically, the land supports predominantly wetland
vegetation. Wetland vegetation is listed in National List of Plant Species that
Occur in Wetlands: North Central (Region 3), Fish and Wildlife Service, May
1988, or later revisions.
      (2)   The substrata is predominantly undrained hydric soil. Hydric soils
are those which have been exposed to water for long enough periods of time to
experience oxygen deletion. Hydric soils are listed in Hydric Soils of the
United States, Soil Conservation Service, October, 1985, or later revisions.
      (3)   Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.
   WETLANDS IN THIS CITY. Are identified in the city’s water resources
inventory and the county’s Soil and Water Conservation District, January 1983,
or later revisions.
(Prior Code, § 12-283) Penalty, see §
156.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.020 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit is required for the construction of buildings or building
additions (and including related activities as construction of decks and
signs), the installation and/or alteration of sewage treatment systems, and
those grading and filling activities not exempted by §
156.056 of this code. Application for a permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator on the forms provided. The application shall include the
necessary information so that the Zoning Administrator can determine the site’s
suitability for the intended use and that a compliant sewage treatment system
will be provided.
   (B)   A permit authorizing an addition to an existing structure shall
stipulate that an identified nonconforming sewage treatment system, as defined
by §
156.062 of this code, shall be reconstructed or replaced in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-326)
§ 156.021 CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a certificate of zoning compliance for
each activity requiring a permit as specified in §
156.020 of this code. This certificate will specify that the use of land
conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Any use, arrangement, or
construction at variance with that authorized by permit shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter and shall be punishable as provided in §
156.999 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-327) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.022 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances may only be granted in accordance with M.S. Ch. 462, as it
may be amended from time to time. A variance may not circumvent the general
purposes and intent of this chapter. No variance may be granted that would
allow any use that is prohibited in the zoning district in which the subject
property is located. Conditions may be imposed in the granting of a variance to
ensure compliance and to protect adjacent properties and the public interest.
In considering a variance request, the Board of Adjustment must also consider
whether the property owner has reasonable use of the land without the variance,
whether the property is used seasonally or year-round, whether the variance is
being requested solely on the basis of economic considerations and the
characteristics of development on adjacent properties.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hear requests for variances in
accordance with the rules that it has adopted for the conduct of business and
shall make recommendations to the City Council which acts as the Board of
Adjustment. When a variance is approved after the Department of Natural
Resources has formally recommended denial in the hearing record, the
notification of the approved variance required in §
156.023 of this code shall also include the Board of Adjustment’s summary of
the public record/testimony and the findings of facts and conclusions which
supported the issuance of the variance.
   (C)   For existing developments, the application for variance must clearly
demonstrate whether a conforming sewage treatment system is present for the
intended use of the property. The variance, if issued, must require
reconstruction of a nonconforming sewage treatment system in compliance with
Ch. 154 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-328) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.023 NOTIFICATIONS TO THE DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES.
   (A)   Copies of all notices of any public hearings to consider variances,
amendments or special uses under local shoreland management controls must be
sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner’s designated representative and
postmarked at least ten days before the hearings. Notices of hearings to
consider proposed subdivisions/plats must include copies of the subdivision/
plat.
   (B)   A copy of approved amendments and subdivision/plats, and final
decisions granting variances or conditional uses under local shoreland
management controls must be sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner’s
designated representative and postmarked within ten days of final action.
(Prior Code, § 12-329)
CLASSIFICATION SYSTEMS
§ 156.035 BASIS OF CLASSIFICATION.
   The public waters of the city have been classified below consistent with the
criteria found in Minn. Rules part 6120.3300, and the Protected Waters
Inventory Map for the county.
   (A)   Shoreland areas. The shoreland area for the waterbodies listed in
divisions (B) and (C) below shall be defined in §
156.008 of this code and as shown on the official zoning map.
   (B)   Lakes.
 
Natural Environment Lakes Protected Waters Inventory I.D. #
Belwin Lake               7W
Fahlstrom Pond            5W
Lake Edith                4P
Metcalf Lake              464W
 
   (C)   Rivers and streams.
      (1)   Tributary streams. All protected watercourses in the city shown on
the county’s Protected Waters Inventory Map, a copy of which is hereby adopted
by reference, not given a classification in divisions (A) and (B) above shall
be considered tributary.
 
Trout Brook                Sections 30, 31, 32, 33, 34
Unnamed to St. Croix River Sections 28, 21, 22, 23
Valley Branch              Sections 9, 10, 14, 15
 
      (2)   Trout streams.
 
South Fork of the Valley Branch Sections 14, 15, 16, 17, 18
 
      (3)   Other rivers. All other rivers and streams in the city having a
total drainage area of greater than two square miles are assigned a tributary
streams classification.
(Prior Code, § 12-361)
§ 156.036 CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION.
   The land use districts in §
156.037 of this code, and the delineation of a land use district’s boundaries
on the official zoning map, must be consistent with the goals, policies and
objectives of the comprehensive land use plan and the following criteria,
considerations and objectives:
   (A)   General considerations and criteria for all land uses:
      (1)   Preservation of natural areas;
      (2)   Present ownership and development of shoreland areas;
      (3)   Shoreland soil types and their engineering capabilities;
      (4)   Topographic characteristics;
      (5)   Vegetative cover;
      (6)   In-water physical characteristics, values and constraints;
      (7)   Recreational use of the surface water;
      (8)   Road accessibility;
      (9)   Socioeconomic development needs and plans as they involve water and
related land resources; and
      (10)   The necessity to preserve and restore certain areas having
significant historical or ecological value.
   (B)   General considerations and criteria for all water uses:
      (1)   Preservation of wildlife habitat;
      (2)   Preservation of aquatic habitat;
      (3)   Prevention of shoreline erosion;
      (4)   Prevention of the degradation of water quality; and
      (5)   Protection of the environment of outdoor educational facilities.
   (C)   Restrictions. In order to achieve the above-listed objectives and in
consideration of the limited size of the waterbodies:
      (1)   No motorized vehicles or craft shall be permitted with the
exception of electric motors;
      (2)   No motorized vehicles or craft used for recreational purposes shall
be permitted within 50 feet of the high water mark of any lake or stream;
      (3)   No aquatic chemicals shall be used without notice to riparian lot
owners and the city;
      (4)   No structure shall remain on the water during winter months for
longer than 12 hours; and
      (5)   No lawn chemicals, fertilizers or pesticides shall be applied
within 200 feet of the high water mark of any protected water, pursuant to
Chapter 25, Article 1, Section 25-1 to 25-7.
(Prior Code, § 12-362) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.037 LAND USE DISTRICT DESCRIPTIONS.
   (A)   Land use districts. The land use districts, provided below, and the
allowable land uses therein for the given classifications of waterbodies, shall
be properly delineated on the official zoning map for the shorelands of this
community. These land use districts are in conformance with the criteria
specified in Minn. Rules part 6120.3200, subdivision 3:
 
A Administrative permit
C Conditional use permit
N Not permitted
P Permitted use
 
   (B)   Land use districts for lakes.
Special Protection District Uses Natural Environment Lakes
Special Protection District Uses     Natural Environment Lakes
Agricultural cropland and pasture    P
Agricultural feedlots                N
Duplex                               C
Extractive use                       N
Forest management                    N
Industrial use                       N
Mining of metallic minerals and peat N
Parks and historic sites             C
PUD                                  N
Semipublic                           C
Sensitive resource management        P
Single residential                   P
 
   (C)   Land use districts for rivers and streams.
Special Protection District Uses Tributary Trout Stream
Special Protection District Uses     Tributary Trout Stream
Agricultural cropland and pasture    P         P
Agricultural feedlots                N         N
Duplex                               C         C
Extractive use                       N         N
Forest management                    N         N
Industrial use                       N         N
Mining of metallic minerals and peat N         N
Parks and historic sites             C         C
PUD                                  N         N
Semipublic                           C         C
Sensitive resource management        P         P
Single residential                   A         A
 
      (1)   One-half the distance from the water’s edge of any trout stream to
the closest point of any dwelling but not less than 20 feet nor more than 50
feet either side of the centerline, vegetative cutting of grass and shrubs
shall not be permitted in order to maintain important shade and cover as well
as to minimize sedimentation of the trout creek. Parcels currently
nonconforming will be subject to §
153.007 of this code.
      (2)   Any discharge from development affecting the creek shall not exceed
the discharge rate prior to development, nor shall it increase the
sedimentation in the creek.
(Prior Code, § 12-363)
§ 156.038 USE, UPGRADING OF INCONSISTENT LAND USE DISTRICTS.
   When an interpretation question arises about whether a specific land use
fits within a given “use” category, the interpretation shall be made by the
City Council after a public hearing and a recommendation by the Planning
Commission. When a question arises as to whether a land use district’s
boundaries are properly delineated on the official zoning map, this
interpretation shall be made by the City Council after a public hearing and a
recommendation by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 12-364)
ZONING AND WATER SUPPLY SANITARY REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.050 LOT AREA AND WIDTH STANDARDS.
   The lot area and lot width standards for single and duplex residential lots
created after the date of enactment of this chapter for the lake and river/
stream classifications are the following:
   (A)   Unsewered lakes. Natural environment lakes:
 
             Riparian Lots     Nonriparian Lots
             Area     Width    Area      Width
Duplex (CUP) 10 acres 400 feet 100 acres 400 feet
Single       5 acres  300 feet 5 acres   300 feet
 
   (B)   River or stream lot width standards.
      (1)   Tributary.
 
             Acres Feet
Duplex (CUP) 10    400
Single       5     300
 
      (2)   Trout stream.
 
             Acres Feet
Duplex (CUP) 10    400
Single       5     300
 
   (C)   Additional special provisions.
      (1)   Only land above the ordinary high water level of public waters can
be used to meet lot area standards, and lot width standards must be met at both
the ordinary high water level and at the building setback line.
      (2)   Subdivisions of duplexes, (permitted only by conditional use
permit) on natural environment lakes and tributary and trout streams must also
meet the following standards.
         (a)   Each building must be set back at least 200 feet from the
ordinary high water level.
         (b)   Each building must have common sewage treatment and water
systems in one location and serve both dwelling units in the building.
         (c)   Watercraft docking facilities for each lot must be centralized
in one location and serve both dwelling units in the building.
         (d)   No more than 25% of a lake’s shoreline in the proposed
development can be in duplex developments.
      (3)   Lots intended as controlled accesses to public waters shall not be
permitted.
(Prior Code, § 12-401)
§ 156.051 PLACEMENT OF STRUCTURES ON LOTS.
   (A)   When more than one setback applies to a site, structures and
facilities must be located to meet all setbacks. On an undeveloped bluffland or
shoreland lot which has two adjacent lots, with principal dwelling structures
on both the adjacent lots within 200 feet of the common lot line, any new
structure shall be setback from the ordinary high water mark the average
setback of the adjacent structures plus 40 feet or the minimum standard
setback, whichever is less.
   (B)   Structure and on-site sewage system setbacks (in feet) from ordinary
high water level*:
 
Setbacks
Classes of Public Waters Structures Unsewered (feet) Sewage Treatment System
                                                     (feet)
Lakes:
   Natural environment200                         150
Recreational rivers:
   Tributary          200                         150
   Trout streams      200                         150
 
   (C)   (1)   The following additional structure setbacks apply, regardless of
the classification of the waterbody:
 
Setback From       Setback (in feet)
Top of bluff       40
Unplatted cemetery 150
 
      (2)   All other setbacks shall meet the regulations in
Ch. 153 of this code.
   (D)   Development on a lot, any portion of which is within 75 feet of the
ordinary high water mark of any unclassified body of water, shall be subject to
a building and septic system setback of 75 feet from the ordinary high water
mark. All other lot requirements shall be subject to the regulations of
Ch. 153 of this code, for the basic zoning district in which the lot is
located.
   (E)   Maximum site coverage by any structure and parking area is 10% or one-
half acre, whichever is greater.
   (F)   Structures and accessory facilities, except stairways and landings,
must not be placed within bluff impact zones.
(Prior Code, § 12-402)
§ 156.052 DESIGN CRITERIA FOR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   High water elevations. Structures must be placed in accordance with
any floodplain regulations applicable to the site. Where these controls do not
exist, the elevation to which the lowest floor, including basement, is placed
or floodproofed must be determined as follows:
      (1)   For lakes, by placing the lowest floor at a level at least three
feet above the highest known water level, or three feet above the ordinary high
water level, whichever is higher; or
      (2)   For rivers and streams, by placing the lowest floor at least three
feet above the flood of record, if data are available. If data are not
available, by placing the lowest floor at least three feet above the ordinary
high water level, or by conducting a technical evaluation to determine effects
of proposed construction upon flood stages and flood flows and to establish a
flood protection elevation. Under all three approaches, technical evaluations
must be done by a qualified engineer or hydrologist consistent with Minn. Rules
parts 6120.5000 through 6120.6200 governing the management of floodplain areas.
If more than one approach is used, the highest flood protection elevation
determined must be used for placing structures and other facilities.
   (B)   Stairways, lifts and landings. Stairways and lifts are the preferred
alternative to major topographic alterations for achieving access up and down
bluffs and steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways and lifts must meet the
following design requirements.
      (1)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots.
      (2)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area.
      (3)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts or landings.
      (4)   Stairways, lifts and landings may be either constructed above the
ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion, and must
be approved by the Soil and Water Conservation District.
      (5)   Stairways, lifts and landings must be located in the most visually
inconspicuous portions of lots as viewed from the surface of the public water
assuming summer, leaf-on conditions and be of an earthen tone.
      (6)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore areas,
provided that the dimensional and performance standards of divisions (B)(1)
through (B)(5) above are complied with in addition to the requirements of M.S.
Ch. 1034G, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (7)   Stairways, lifts and landings are not permitted on scenic
easements.
   (C)   Significant historic sites. No structure may be placed on a
significant historic site in a manner that affects the values of the site
unless adequate information about the site has been removed and documented in a
public repository.
   (D)   Steep slopes.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator must evaluate possible soil erosion
impacts and development visibility from public waters before issuing a permit
for construction of sewage treatment systems, roads, driveways, structures or
other improvements on steep slopes.
      (2)   When determined necessary, conditions must be attached to issued
permits to prevent erosion and to preserve existing vegetation screening of
structures, vehicles and other facilities as viewed from the surface of public
waters, assuming summer, leaf-on vegetation.
(Prior Code, § 12-403)
Statutory reference:
   Curb Ramps and Blended Transitions and Platform Lifts, see Minn. Rules
1341.0406 A117.1 § 406 through Minn. Rules 1341.0410 A117.1 § 410
§ 156.053 HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES.
   All structures in Special Protection District must not exceed 35 feet in
height.
(Prior Code, § 12-404) (Ord. 97-43, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 156.054 SHORELAND ALTERATIONS.
   Alterations of vegetation and topography will be regulated to prevent
erosion into public waters, fix nutrients, preserve shoreland aesthetics,
preserve historic values, prevent bank slumping and protect fish and wildlife
habitat.
§ 156.055 VEGETATION ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of structures and
sewage treatment systems and the construction of driveways are subject to the
vegetation restoration requirements and standards provided below.
   (B)   Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for agricultural uses as
regulated in §
156.076 of this code is subject to the following standards.
      (1)   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and bluff impact
zones and on steep slopes is not allowed in order that structures, vehicles and
other facilities are screened as viewed from the water assuming summer leaf-on
conditions.
      (2)   Along rivers and streams, existing shading of water surface shall
be preserved.
      (3)   In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, limited
clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning and trimming of trees is
allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling site and to
accommodate the placements of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access
paths, livestock watering areas, beach and watercraft access areas, provided
that:
         (a)   The screening of structures, vehicles or other facilities as
viewed from the water, assuming summer leaf-on conditions, is not substantially
reduced;
         (b)   The cutting, including topping, involves trees less than six
inches in diameter at breast height;
         (c)   The essential character, quality and density of existing growths
is preserved and continuous canopy cover is maintained;
         (d)   Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces is preserved;
         (e)   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of trees,
limbs or branches that are dead, diseased or pose safety hazards; and
         (f)   A permit is obtained from the Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   A vegetative cutting permit may be issued only if a plan is
submitted and approved by the Zoning Administrator that is consistent with the
following vegetative cutting permit provisions, and if applicable, is
consistent with the requirements, guidelines and standards for vegetation
restoration, tree preservation, tree protection and tree replacement set out in
the divisions below.
         (a)   The cutting, including topping, may not involve trees greater
than six inches in diameter at a height of four and one-half feet above ground;
         (b)   The cutting, including topping, may not involve vegetation which
is screening any structure from view from a river, lake or stream;
         (c)   The essential character, quality, and density of existing
growths is preserved and continuous canopy cover is maintained;
         (d)   The reasonable removal of any diseased, noxious, or hazardous
trees or shrubs is allowed with a vegetative cutting permit that is subject to
pre-inspection and confirmation by the city's forester or a landscape
architect, and may require a vegetative restoration plan meeting the standards
in division (D)(3). If the removals are on a slope of 12% or greater, and/or if
the removals are in the Shore Impact Zone, a groundcover restoration plan and
erosion control plan may be required. Excessive removals are subject to
restoration as required in division (D)(3) below; or
         (e)   Trees and shrubs may not be removed to expand areas maintained
as lawn.
   (C)   Vegetative cutting exceptions. A vegetative cutting permit is not
required for the following activities, provided the existing quality,
character, density, and canopy is maintained as viewed from the river, lake or
stream:
      (1)   Clearing the minimum necessary for a validly permitted structure,
septic system, roadway, and parking areas.
      (2)   Maintenance trimming or pruning on a particular parcel or in
transportation or utility rights-of-way.
    (D)   Vegetation restoration.
      (1)   As a condition of approval, the Zoning Administrator may require a
vegetation restoration plan meeting the standards of division (D)(3) below.
      (2)   Vegetation cutting violations. Where a violation of the vegetative
cutting standards has been documented, the property owner shall be subject to a
vegetation restoration plan meeting the standards in division (D)(3) below.
      (3)   Standards for vegetation preservation and restoration.
         (a)   Vegetation restorations, when required, must be accompanied by a
restoration plan approved by the local Zoning Administrator. The plan must
identify all trees to be removed, as well as the replacements.
         (b)   Any removal of woody trees must be replaced with native species
consistent with the replacement standards in the table below. Replacements
shall be concentrated along shore and/or waterward of the location where the
removal occurred to screen the structure as viewed from the river, lake or
stream.
         (c)   Near shore or highly erodible locations shall be planted with a
mix of deep-rooted woody and herbaceous vegetation with a high stem-density,
and if applicable, resilient to fluctuations in water levels.
         (d)   The plan must detail establishment and scheduled maintenance
over the next three years in the restoration plan, and is subject to
restoration for noncompliance or unsuccessful restorations.
         (e)   Restoration is subject to inspection by the Zoning Administrator
or Washington Conservation District to make a finding that tree survival/growth
and integrity and inherent stability of the existing landscape will be
maintained.
         (f)   See the following table for replacement tree minimum
requirements.
 
Diameter at Breast Height (DBH) of Number of Replacement Trees 2.5 inch DBH
Existing Tree Removed              Minimum (Coniferous Trees 6 Foot Height
                                   Minimum)
Between 6 and 12 inches            3
Between 12 and 18 inches           4
Between 18 and 24 inches           5
Greater than 24 inches             7
 
         (g)   Tree preservation plan for new construction. The applicant must
provide a tree preservation plan certified by a forester or landscape architect
indicating all of the significant trees in the proposed construction area (for
purposes of applying this definition, construction area shall include all areas
to be disturbed by grading for excavation and fill permits and 30 feet
surrounding the building pad area, ten feet along driveways). The tree
preservation plan shall include the size, species and location of all
significant trees within the area and identify trees which would be removed.
Replacement of the trees must adhere to the tree replacement guidelines set
forth below.
         (h)   The applicant for new home construction must provide a site plan
on a certified survey indicating the tree preservation plan originally
submitted and approved during the permitting process. Any additional tree loss
not approved during the permitting process must follow the replacement
guidelines. Furthermore, security for the tree replacement and reforestation
shall be required as set out in division (D)(3)(m) below.
         (i)   Tree protection. Snow fencing or erosion control fencing placed
at the drip line of significant trees to be preserved. The tree protection
measures shall remain in place until all primary grading activity is terminated
and the forester or landscape architect has certified to the city that the tree
preservation plan has been followed.
         (j)   Replacement requirements. Tree replacement shall be required if
construction removes any significant trees. Every tree lost shall require
replacement as shown in the table in division (D)(3)(f) above. The applicant
must supply a tree replacement plan which has been certified by a forester or
landscape architect.
         (k)   Significant tree loss occurring beyond the indicated tree
preservation plan as submitted during the permitting process shall require tree
replacement at the rate shown in division (D)(3)(f) above.
         (l)   Reforestation guidelines. The following criteria will be used to
determine reforestation:
            1.   Trees must be from the approved list of desirable species;
            2.   No more than one-third of the trees may be from any one tree
genus;
            3.   Not less than 20% of the trees shall be conifers;
            4.   Tree replacement sizes will be followed; and
            5.   Trees shall be used that are appropriate to the soil
conditions found on site.
         (m)   Security for tree replacement and reforestation. Security for
new construction, excavation and fill permits, or other land alteration
activities. Security, in the form of a letter of credit, cash, or escrow will
be provided by the applicant, in favor of the city, in the amount of 125% of
the estimated cost of the replacement trees (charged with the building permit
fees) will be held until the replacement trees have been planted and
successfully survived for a period of two years from the date of planting.
         (n)   Maintenance of tree replacement plantings. All plantings
required as part of an approved tree replacement plan shall be maintained in
good health for a period of at least 40 years, and the property owner shall
agree to the recording of a covenant on the property reflecting the maintenance
requirement.
(Prior Code, 12-406) (Ord. 10-2023, passed 10-17-2023) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.056 TOPOGRAPHIC ALTERATIONS; GRADING AND FILLING.
   (A)   Grading and filling and excavations necessary for the construction of
structures, sewage treatment systems and driveways under validly issued
construction permits for these facilities do not require the issuance of a
separate grading and filling permit. However, the grading and filling standards
in this section must be incorporated into the issuance of permits for
construction of structures, sewage treatment systems and driveways.
   (B)   Public roads and parking areas are regulated by §
156.057 of this code.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) above, a grading and filling
permit will be required in order to meet the following.
      (1)   Within this chapter, land reclamation is the reclaiming of land by
depositing or moving material so as to alter the grade. Land reclamation shall
be permitted only by conditional use permit in all zoning districts. However,
no conditional use permit for land reclamation shall be permitted on slopes of
18% or greater nor in any wetland. Depositing a total of more than 50 cubic
yards of material per acre, either by hauling in or regrading the area shall
constitute land reclamation. Land reclamation in floodplains shall be in
accordance with Ch. 159 of this code. The permit shall include as a condition
thereof a finished grading plan that will not adversely affect the adjacent
land and as conditions thereof shall regulate the type of material permitted,
program for rodent control, plan for fire control and general maintenance of
the site, controls of vehicular ingress and egress, drainage and control of
material disbursed from wind or hauling of material to or from the site and
erosion control and stabilization plans for the deposited material or excavated
area. All plans must be approved by the soil and water conservation service.
      (2)   No person, county, municipality or other political subdivision
shall appropriate or use any public water, surface or underground, without
first obtaining a use of public waters permit and written permission of the
Commissioner of the division of waters, soils and minerals of the state’s
Department of Natural Resources and all other state, county and local permits.
      (3)   For purposes of these regulations, public waters shall be defined
in M.S. § 103G.005, subdivision 8a, and M.S. § 103G.005, subdivision 15a, as
they may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Public waters shall include all lakes, ponds, swamps, streams,
drainageways, floodplains, floodways, natural water courses, underground water
resources and similar features involving directly or indirectly the use of
water within the city.
      (5)   (a)   No public water area shall be filled, partially filled,
dredged, altered by grading, mining or otherwise utilized or disturbed in any
manner without first securing a public waters use permit from the state’s
Department of Natural Resources and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and a
grading permit from the city.
         (b)   These grading permits shall be reviewed and approved by the
Department of Natural Resources, the City Engineer, the Watershed District, the
Planning Commission and the City Council.
   (D)   The following considerations and conditions must be adhered to during
the issuance of construction permits, grading and filling permits, conditional
use permits, variances and subdivision approvals:
      (1)   No grading or filling of any wetland is permitted.
      (2)   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that ensures
only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest time
possible.
      (3)   Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary, for
temporary bare soil coverage, and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible.
      (4)   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before they
reach any surface water feature must be used.
      (5)   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the local Soil
and Water Conservation Districts and the United States Soil Conservation
Service.
      (6)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope.
      (7)   Fill or excavated material shall not be placed on steep slopes,
with the exception of driveways over human-made slopes that were created by the
construction of roads or related ditches, and that extend only perpendicular to
the road for a horizontal distance of 30 feet or less.
      (8)   Fill or excavated material shall not be placed in bluff impact
zones.
      (9)   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters must first be authorized by the Commissioner under M.S. § 103G.245, as
it may be amended from time to time.
      (10)   Alterations of topography shall only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties, and do not cause the potential for erosion.
      (11)   Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated grading of
the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the finished
slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to one foot vertical, the landward
extent of the riprap is within ten feet of the ordinary high water level, and
the height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level does not exceed
three feet.
      (12)   Scenic easements on slopes greater than 18% shall be required as
per Ch. 160 of this code, with the exception of driveways over human-made
slopes that were created by the construction of roads or related ditches, and
that extend only perpendicular to the road for a horizontal distance of 30 feet
or less.
   (E)   Excavations where the intended purpose is connection to a public
water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons and harbors, must be controlled by
local shoreland controls. Permission for excavations may be given only after
the Commissioner has approved the proposed connection to public waters.
(Prior Code, § 12-407) (Ord. 11-2016, passed 10-18-2016)
Cross-reference:
   Mining, see
Ch. 162
§ 156.057 PLACEMENT AND DESIGN OF ROADS, DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   (1)   All driveways, parking areas and public roads must be designed
to take advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve maximum
screening from view from public waters.
      (2)   Documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that all
roads and parking areas are designed and constructed to minimize and control
erosion to public waters consistent with the field office technical guides of
the local Soil and Water Conservation District, and plans must be approved by
the Soil and Water Conservation District.
   (B)   Roads, driveways and parking areas must meet structure setbacks and
must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones. No parking facilities
other than residential parking shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 12-408)
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 151
§ 156.058 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Unless otherwise exempted by this chapter, a Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (ESCP) shall
be required as part of any building permit or land disturbing activity that
meets the criteria in
Ch. 158 of this code. All related plans shall achieve at least the minimum
standards of
Ch. 158 of this code.
   (B)   The following general and specific standards shall apply.
      (1)   Existing natural drainageways, wetlands and vegetated soil surfaces
must be used to convey, store, filter and retain stormwater runoff before
discharge to public waters shall not be eliminated by construction or land
disturbance.
      (2)   Impervious surface coverage of lots must not exceed 10% of the lot
area or one-half acre, whichever is greater.
(Prior Code, § 12-409) (Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 156.059 AGRICULTURAL USE STANDARDS.
   General cultivation farming, grazing, nurseries, horticulture, truck farming
and wild crop harvesting are permitted provided they do not occur on slopes
greater than 12% and do not intrude on the bluff impact zones and provided the
shore and impact zones are maintained in a permanent vegetative condition. The
shore impact zone for parcels with permitted agricultural land uses is equal to
a line parallel to and 50 feet from the ordinary high water level.
(Prior Code, § 12-410)
§ 156.060 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Special uses allowable within shoreland areas shall be subject to the
review and approval procedures and criteria and conditions for review of
special uses established community-wide.
   (B)   The following additional evaluation criteria and conditions apply
within shoreland areas.
      (1)   Evaluation criteria. A thorough evaluation of the waterbody and the
topographic, vegetation and soils conditions on the site must be made to
ensure:
         (a)   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters as well as the runoff of landscape chemicals including
fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides both during and after construction;
         (b)   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed from
public waters is limited;
         (c)   The site is adequate for water supply and onsite sewage
treatment; and
         (d)   The types, uses and numbers of watercraft that the project will
generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercrafts.
      (2)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. The Planning
Commission, upon consideration of the criteria listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, shall recommend to the City Council conditions to the issuance of
the conditional use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of
this chapter. These conditions may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Increased setbacks from the ordinary high water level;
         (b)   Limitations on the natural vegetation to be removed or the
requirement that additional vegetation be planted; and
         (c)   Special provisions for the location, design and use of
structures, sewage treatment systems, watercraft launching and docking areas
and vehicle parking areas.
(Prior Code, § 12-411)
§ 156.061 WATER SUPPLY.
   Any public or private supply of water for domestic purposes must meet or
exceed standards for water quality of the state’s Department of Health and the
state’s Pollution Control Agency.
(Prior Code, § 12-412)
§ 156.062 SEWAGE TREATMENT.
   (A)   Sewage treatment. Any premises used for human occupancy must be
provided with an adequate method of sewage treatment, as follows.
      (1)   Publicly-owned sewer systems must be used where available.
      (2)   All private sewage treatment systems must meet or exceed the
state’s Pollution Control Agency’s standards for individual sewage treatment
systems contained in the document titled, Individual Sewage Treatment Systems
Standards, Minn. Rules Ch. 7080, a copy of which is hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter and must meet the city’s septic
system requirements.
      (3)   On-site sewage treatment systems must be set back from the ordinary
high water level in accordance with the setbacks contained in §
156.051 of this code.
      (4)   All proposed sites for individual sewage treatment systems shall be
evaluated in accordance with the criteria in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3)
above. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide sufficient
soil borings and percolation tests from on-site field investigations. The
evaluation criteria are:
         (a)   Depth to the highest known or calculated groundwater table or
bedrock;
         (b)   Soil conditions, properties and permeability;
         (c)   Slope; including the ability of the septic system to meet the
required setbacks; and
         (d)   The existence of lowlands, local surface depressions and rock
outcrops.
      (5)   Nonconforming sewage treatment systems shall be regulated and
upgraded in accordance with Section 12-479.
   (B)   Nonconforming sewage treatment systems. These systems must meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   A sewage treatment system not meeting the requirements of this
section must be upgraded, at a minimum, at any time a permit or variance of any
type is required for any improvement on, or use of, the property or when the
property is transferred. For the purposes of this provision, a sewage treatment
system shall not be considered nonconforming if the only deficiency is the
sewage treatment system’s improper setback from the ordinary high water level.
The city sanitarian is required to submit a report to the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The city shall identify nonconforming or illegal sewage treatment
systems located on properties identified in §
156.035(B) and (C) of this code and shall require repair, replacement or
reconstruction when appropriate. The city shall require that nonconforming
systems be pumped at a minimum of once every two years and a well water test be
made to determine the level of nitrates and coliforms present.
      (3)   The pumping shall be done by a licensed pumper who shall certify as
to the observed conditions of the system and the results placed on file at City
Hall. The well testing results shall be verified by a laboratory approved by
the Zoning Administrator or by the county’s Public Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 12-413)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 156.075 NONCONFORMING USES.
   All legally established nonconformities as of the date of adoption of the
ordinance from which this chapter was derived may continue, but they will be
managed according to applicable state statutes and other regulations of this
community for the subjects of alterations and additions, repair after damage,
discontinuance of use and intensification of use; except that the standards in
this subchapter will also apply in shoreland areas.
(Prior Code, § 12-476)
§ 156.076 CONSTRUCTION ON NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   Lots of record in the office of the County Recorder on August 19,
1975, that do not meet the requirements of §
156.050 of this code may be allowed as building sites provided the use is
permitted in the zoning district, the lot has been in separate ownership from
abutting lands at all times since it became substandard, was created compliant
with official controls in effect at the time, sewage treatment and setback
requirements of this chapter are met and the lot meets the requirements of
Ch. 153 of this code, regarding nonconformity.
   (B)   A variance from setback requirements must be obtained before any use,
sewage treatment system or building permit is issued for the lot. In evaluating
the variance, the Board of Adjustment shall consider, along with all criteria
listed in §
156.022 of this code, sewage treatment and water supply capabilities or
constraints of the lot and shall deny the variance if adequate facilities
cannot be provided.
   (C)   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under the same
ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements of §
156.050 of this code the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel of
land for the purposes of sale or development. The lot must be combined with the
one or more contiguous lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each
meeting the requirements of §
156.050 of this code and
Ch. 153 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-477)
§ 156.077 ADDITIONS AND EXPANSIONS TO NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All structures in existence prior to the adoption of the ordinance
from which this chapter was derived which do not meet the structure setbacks
and other dimensional standards of this chapter shall be considered substandard
structures.
   (B)   Any extension, enlargement or alteration of an existing substandard
structure or sanitary facility shall meet the setback standards of this
chapter.
   (C)   Exceptions to the setback standards for substandard structures may
include the following.
      (1)   An extension, enlargement or alteration of an existing substandard
structure or sanitary facility may be permitted on the side of the structure or
facility facing away from the shoreline or ordinary high water level.
      (2)   An improvement to an existing structure or facility may be allowed
to extend laterally (parallel to the shoreline or ordinary high water level)
when the improvement is within 60% of the required setback and in compliance
with all of the dimensional standards and side yard setbacks of
Ch. 153 of this code.
      (3)   Exterior decks attached to the structure which do not extend any
roof or foundation, may be permitted to extend laterally (parallel to the
shoreline or ordinary high water level) at the same setback as the substandard
structure.
   (D)   If a substandard structure needs replacing due to destruction,
deterioration or obsolescence, the replacement shall comply with the
dimensional standards of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-478) (Ord. 97-43, passed 11-13-2001)
SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.090 LAND SUITABILITY.
   Each lot created through subdivision, must be suitable in its natural state
for the proposed use with minimal alteration. Suitability analysis by the local
unit of government shall consider susceptibility to flooding, existence of
wetlands, soil and rock formations with severe limitations for development,
severe erosion potential, steep topography, inadequate water supply or sewage
treatment capabilities, near-shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-
based recreation, important fish and wildlife habitat, presence of significant
historic sites or any other feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to
the health, safety or welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision
or of the community.
(Prior Code, § 12-501)
§ 156.091 CONSISTENCY WITH OTHER CONTROLS.
   (A)   Subdivisions must conform to all official controls of the city. A
subdivision will not be approved where a later variance from one or more
standards in official controls would be needed to use the lots for their
intended purpose. In areas not served by publicly-owned sewer and water
systems, a subdivision will not be approved unless domestic water supply is
available and a sewage treatment system consistent with §§
156.051 and
156.062 of this code and an approved septic system can be provided for every
lot.
   (B)   Each lot shall meet the minimum lot size and dimensional requirements
of §
156.050 of this code, including at least a minimum contiguous lawn area, that
is free of limiting factors as identified in the city ordinance sufficient for
the construction of two standard soil treatment systems. Lots that would
require use of holding tanks shall not be approved.
(Prior Code, § 12-502) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.092 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Sufficient information must be submitted by the applicant for the
community to make a determination of land suitability as well as complying with
Ch. 160 of this code.
   (B)   The information shall include at least the following:
      (1)   Topographic contours at ten-foot intervals or less from United
States Geological Survey maps or more accurate sources, showing limiting site
characteristics;
      (2)   The surface water features required in M.S. § 505.02, subdivision
1, as it may be amended from time to time, to be shown on plats, obtained from
United States Geological Survey quadrangle topographic maps or more accurate
sources;
      (3)   Adequate soils information to determine suitability for building
and on-site sewage treatment capabilities for every lot from the most current
existing sources or from field investigations such as soil borings, percolation
tests or other methods;
      (4)   Information regarding adequacy of domestic water supply; extent of
anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations; near-shore aquatic
conditions, including depths, types of bottom sediments and aquatic vegetation;
and proposed methods for achieving the controlling stormwater runoff and
erosion and sediment control provisions of
Ch. 158 of this code; proposed methods for controlling runoff of landscape
chemicals including fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides both during and
after construction activities;
      (5)   Location of 100-year floodplain areas and floodway districts from
existing adopted maps or data;
      (6)   A line or contour representing the ordinary high water level, the
“toe” and the “top” of bluffs, and the minimum building setback distances from
the top of the bluff and the lake or stream;
      (7)   All slopes of 18% or greater shall be identified; and
      (8)   All slopes of 12% to 18% shall be identified.
(Prior Code, § 12-503) (Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 156.093 DEDICATIONS.
   When a land or easement dedication is a condition of subdivision approval,
the approval must provide easements over natural drainage, facilities for
management of stormwater required by
Ch. 158 of this code and significant wetlands.
(Prior Code, § 12-504) (Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 156.094 PLATTING.
   All subdivisions as a plat in accordance with M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be
amended from time to time, and this subchapter: No permit for construction of
buildings or sewage treatment systems shall be issued for lots created after
these official controls were enacted unless the lot was approved as part of a
formal subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 12-505)
§ 156.095 CONTROLLED ACCESS OR RECREATIONAL LOTS.
   Lots intended as controlled accesses to public waters or for recreational
use areas for use by nonriparian lots within a subdivision shall not be
permitted.
(Prior Code, § 12-506) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law. Violations
of this chapter can occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required for
a regulated activity pursuant to §
156.020 of this code.
   (B)   Penalties for illegal tree removals (§
156.055).
      (1)   Each tree illegally removed shall be considered a separate
misdemeanor, with each to be subject to the full misdemeanor penalties.
      (2)   Each tree illegally removed shall also be subject to a civil
penalty fee of a minimum of $2,000. The removal of a large tree or a group of
trees causing removal of 25% or more of the canopy and/or screening in the area
of the property from the shoreline to the rear of an existing or proposed house
shall be subject to an additional civil penalty fee.
      (3)   The penalties for illegal tree removals may be applied to both the
property owner and the contractor who illegally removes the trees.
(Prior Code, § 12-280) (Ord. 10-2023, passed 10-17-2023)
CHAPTER 157: LOWER ST. CROIX RIVER BLUFFLAND
AND SHORELAND MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Short title
   
157.02   Intent and purpose
   
157.03   Existing codes
   
157.04   Definitions
   
157.05   Substandard structures
   
157.06   Substandard lots
   
157.07   Color of structures
   
157.08   Marinas
   
157.09   Alterations in public waters
   
157.10   Transmission services
   
157.11   Public roads
   
157.12   Requirements for sewage disposal
   
157.13   Conflicting provisions
   
157.14   Measurement of distances
Districts
   
157.25   Designation of districts
   
157.26   Minimum district dimensional requirements
Uses
   
157.40   Purpose
   
157.41   Permitted uses
   
157.42   Site preservation
   
157.43   Vegetative cutting
   
157.44   Grading and filling
   
157.45   Conditionally permitted uses
   
157.46   Prohibited uses
   
157.47   Nonconforming uses
Administration
   
157.60   Administrative procedure
   
157.61   Certification by the Commissioner
   
157.62   Forwarding of a final decision
   
157.63   Permit process
   
157.64   Variances
   
157.65   Requirements for public hearing
   
157.66   Factors considered
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision requirements for the Lower St. Croix River shoreland, see §
160.103
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Lower St. Croix
River Bluffland and Shoreland Management Ordinance”; except as referred to
herein, where it shall be known as, “this chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 12-576)
§ 157.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Designating suitable land use districts along the bluffland and
shoreland of the Lower St. Croix River;
   (B)   Regulating the area of a lot, and the length of bluffland and water
frontage suitable for building sites;
   (C)   Regulating the setback of structures and sanitary waste treatment
facilities from blufflines to protect the existing and/or natural scenic
values, vegetation, soils, water and bedrock from disruption by human-made
structures or facilities;
   (D)   Regulating the setback of structures and sanitary waste treatment
facilities from shorelines to protect the natural scenic value, floodplain and
water quality;
   (E)   Regulating alterations of the natural vegetation and topography; and
   (F)   Conserving and protecting the natural scenic values and resources of
the river valley and maintaining a high standard of environmental quality to
comply with the state’s Department of Natural Resources’ standards and criteria
for the Lower St. Croix National Scenic Riverway.
(Prior Code, § 12-577) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Minn. Rules parts 6105.0351 through 6105.0550
§ 157.03 EXISTING CODES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are in addition to and not in
replacement of the provisions of Ch. 153 of this code. Any provisions of
Ch. 153 of this code, relating to the Lower St. Croix Riverway shall remain in
full force and effect except as they may be contrary to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   In the Village Historic Site (VHS) District of this chapter designated
in §
157.25 of this code, existing zoning districts in effect and uses permitted on
May 1, 1974, by
Ch. 153 of this code may again be permitted by the City Council by conditional
use permit, subject to the provisions of Minn. Rules part 6105.0510, subpart 2,
and approval in writing by the Commissioner of Natural Resources, if they meet
the following standards:
      (1)   The proposed use is consistent with and complementary to the
existing, adjacent, urban land uses and municipal plans;
      (2)   The dimensional requirements of §
157.26 of this code;
      (3)   The sideyard setbacks and frontage requirements of
Ch. 153 of this code;
      (4)   A parking layout and site plan which provides on-site, off-street
parking spaces for all employees of the project, an exclusive area for loading
docks where required by local ordinance and off-street customer parking spaces
as required by local ordinance;
      (5)   An on-site grading and surface water run-off plan for the site
which minimizes soil erosion and degradation of surface water quality;
      (6)   In sewered areas, public sewer will service the proposed project;
      (7)   A landscaping plan for the site is illustrated which minimizes the
visual impact of the proposed project as viewed from the river and which
visually screens all parking areas from the river. The applicant shall provide
the city with a performance bond for the cost of all landscaping to ensure
compliance with the landscaping plan;
      (8)   A public hearing as per §
157.60 of this code and forwarding of the final action of the local community
to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of the final action;
      (9)   The project meets all other existing local zoning and subdivision
requirements;
      (10)   The project requires no alteration or fill of shoreline, bluffland
or floodway, except for temporary docking and launching of watercraft;
      (11)   No lighted or flashing signs shall face riverward; and
      (12)   Detailed plans and specifications as presented at the public
hearing are sufficient to obtain all local access, building, zoning and sewer
permits.
   (C)   In the Village Historic Site (VHS) District, the following are
considered conditionally permitted uses:
      (1)   Seasonal business;
      (2)   Cemeteries;
      (3)   Churches;
      (4)   Information centers;
      (5)   Medical uses;
      (6)   Day and school nurseries;
      (7)   Offices;
      (8)   Off-street loading;
      (9)   Parks;
      (10)   Photo studios;
      (11)   Recreation areas: public and semi-public;
      (12)   Retail shopping;
      (13)   Historic or scenic structures;
      (14)   Taverns or bars;
      (15)   Utility substations;
      (16)   Commercial waterfront uses;
      (17)   Marinas;
      (18)   Hotels;
      (19)   Cafés and restaurants;
      (20)   Supper clubs;
      (21)   Theaters; and
      (22)   Nursery and garden supplies (exterior or enclosed sales).
   (D)   The following are permitted in the Marine Services District as:
      (1)   Conditionally permitted uses. Boat, boat trailer and marine storage
and repair, enclosed or screened; single-family residential; and utility
substation; and
      (2)   Accessory uses. Boat, boat trailer and marine sales; off-street
loading; and storage, enclosed or screened.
(Prior Code, § 12-578) (Ord. 1997-21, passed 12-15-1998; Ord. 1997-19, passed
7-15-1997)
§ 157.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPURTENANCE. A structure subordinate to and serving the principal structure
on the same lot and customarily incidental thereto such as garages, decks,
essential services, signs, docks and stairways and lifts, except that
APPURTENANCE does not include private water supply and sewage and waste
disposal systems below the ground.
   BLUFFLINE. A line along the top of a slope connecting the points at which
the slope, proceeding away from the river or adjoining watershed channel,
becomes less than 12% and it only includes slopes greater than 12% visible from
the river or any watercourse tributary to the river. The location of the
BLUFFLINE for any particular property shall be certified by a registered land
surveyor or the Zoning Administrator. More than one BLUFFLINE may be
encountered proceeding away from the river or adjoining watershed channel. All
setbacks required herein shall be applicable to each BLUFFLINE.
   HARBOR. A portion of a body of water along or landward of the natural
shoreline deep enough for recreational watercraft navigation, and so situated
with respect to shoreline features as to provide protection from winds, waves,
ice and currents. NATURAL HARBORS consist of bays and estuaries, while
artificial HARBORS are constructed by dredging.
   MARINA and MARINE SERVICES. An area of concentrated small craft mooring,
where ancillary facilities may be provided for some or all of services as
fueling, sewage pumpout, boat launching, boat repair and boat storage; except
that MARINA does not mean temporary docks associated with riparian residential
development if the mooring area is of a size not to exceed the resource
limitations of the site and the needs of the residents of the development.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use of land established before the effective date of
the ordinance from which this chapter was derived which does not conform to the
use restrictions of a particular zoning district. This should not be confused
with substandard dimensions of a conforming use.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK. A mark delineating the highest water level which
has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape. The ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is commonly that point where the
natural vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly
terrestrial. In areas where the ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is not evident,
setbacks shall be measured from the stream bank of the following waterbodies
that have permanent flow or open water; the main channel, adjoining side
channels, backwaters and sloughs.
   RIVERWAY BOUNDARY. A legally described line delineating the landward extent
of the St. Croix Riverway.
   ST. CROIX RIVERWAY. All lands and public waters within the riverway boundary
subject to the standards and criteria for the Lower St. Croix National Scenic
Riverway in the state.
   SCENIC EASEMENT. An interest in land, less than fee title, that limits the
use of the land for the purpose of protecting the scenic, recreational and
natural characteristics of areas in the St. Croix Riverway. Unless otherwise
expressly and specifically provided by mutual agreement of the parties, the
easement shall be: Perpetually held for the benefit of the people of the state;
specifically enforceable by its holder or any beneficiary; and binding on the
holder of the servient estate, his or her heirs, successors or assigns. Unless
specifically provided by the parties, no easement shall give the holder or any
beneficiary the right to enter on the land except for enforcement of the
easement.
   SCREENING. The presence of vegetation or topography which makes any
structure on any property visually inconspicuous in summer months as viewed
from the river.
   SLOPE. All lands between the ordinary high water mark and the riverway
boundary having an angle of ascent or descent of more than 12% from the
horizontal.
   STRUCTURE. Any building or appurtenance thereto, except transmission
services.
   SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURE. Any structure established before the effective date
of the ordinance from which this chapter was derived which is permitted within
a particular zoning district but does not meet the structure setbacks or other
dimensional standards of this chapter.
   VARIANCE. Any modification or variation of the dimensional standards of this
chapter where it is determined that, because of practical difficulties, strict
enforcement of this chapter is impractical.
   VISUALLY INCONSPICUOUS. Difficult to see or not readily noticeable in summer
months as viewed from the river.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently. The term applies to either natural or artificially
constructed channels.
(Prior Code, § 12-579) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 1997-15, passed 1-
19-1999; Ord. 02-2014, passed 5-20-2014)
§ 157.05 SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All structures in existence prior to the adoption of the ordinance
from which this chapter was derived which do not meet the structure setbacks
and other dimensional standards of this chapter shall be considered substandard
structures.
   (B)   Any extension, enlargement or alteration of an existing substandard
structure or sanitary facility shall meet the setback standards of this
chapter.
   (C)   Exceptions to the setback standards for substandard structures may
include the following.
      (1)   An extension, enlargement or alteration of an existing substandard
structure or sanitary facility may be permitted on the side of the structure or
facility facing away from the river and/or bluffline.
      (2)   An improvement to an existing structure or facility may be allowed
to extend laterally (parallel to the river or bluff) when the improvement is in
compliance with the dimensional standards of this chapter and the side yard
standards of
Ch. 153 of this code.
      (3)   Exterior decks attached to the structure which do not extend any
roof or foundation, may be permitted to extend laterally (parallel to the river
or bluffline) at the same setback as the substandard structure if the deck is
visually inconspicuous in summer months as viewed from the river, and provided
the deck has no roof or building foundation.
      (4)   Substandard structures which do not meet the bluffland and/or
shoreland setbacks shall not be raised in elevation or roofline, except in
floodplain areas and then only to protect the structure.
   (D)   If a substandard structure needs replacing due to destruction,
deterioration or obsolescence, the replacement shall comply with the
dimensional standards of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-580)
§ 157.06 SUBSTANDARD LOTS.
   (A)   A lot or parcel of land for which a deed has been recorded in the
office of the County Recorder on or prior to May 1, 1974, shall be deemed a
buildable lot provided:
      (1)   It has frontage on a maintained public right-of-way, maintained by
the community or other unit of government, or frontage on a private road which
was established prior to May 1, 1974;
      (2)   It is of record in the office of the County Recorder prior to May
1, 1974;
      (3)   It can be demonstrated that a proper and adequate sewage disposal
system can be installed;
      (4)   The proposed structure can meet the side yard setbacks of
Ch. 153 of this code; and
      (5)   The preexisting single lot or parcel area dimensions in the Rural
District shall meet or exceed 60% of all of the requirements for a new lot; or
in the VHS District, the preexisting single parcel shall meet or exceed 22,500
square feet in area and shall meet or exceed all other dimensional requirements
for a new lot in the VHS District.
   (B)   If in a group of contiguous platted lots under a single ownership, any
individual lot does not meet the minimum requirements of this chapter, the lot
cannot be considered as a separate parcel of land for purposes of sale or
development, but must be combined with adjacent lots under the same ownership
so that the combination of lots will:
      (1)   In the Rural District equal one or more parcels of land each
meeting the full requirements of this chapter; or
      (2)   In the Village Historic Site (VHS) District, equal a platted area
of 22,500 square feet (three old village platted lots) or more, and all other
new lot requirements as listed in §
157.26 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-581) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 157.07 COLOR OF STRUCTURES.
   The exterior color of new or renovated structures, including roofs, in the
Rural District, shall be of earth or summer vegetation tones, unless completely
screened from the river by topography. The exterior color of new or renovated
structures in the Village Historic Site (VHS) District shall be consistent with
the architectural standards for an historic village center as expressed in the
city Comprehensive Plan and ordinances, provided the structure is screened by
vegetation or topography, making it inconspicuous as viewed from the river
during the summer months.
(Prior Code, § 12-582)
§ 157.08 MARINAS.
   (A)   New and or expanded marinas may only be allowed downstream from the
northern city limits of Stillwater in urban districts.
   (B)   New marinas shall meet the design standards of natural resources
regulations including Minn. Rules part 6105.0410, subpart 2.
   (C)   No construction or development associated with a marina shall begin
until all of the following authorizations have been obtained by the applicant.
      (1)   Marinas shall be a conditionally permitted use in this chapter.
      (2)   For uses and structures above the ordinary high water mark
associated with a marina, a public hearing shall be held by the Council to
consider a marina as a conditionally permitted use in accordance with
Department of Natural Resources regulations including Minn. Rules part
6105.0530. The Council may approve or deny the marina on the standards of the
Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   If the Council approves the marina, final issuance of the local
permit shall be conditioned upon granting of all state and federal permits
required in Department of Natural Resources regulations including Minn. Rules
part 6105.0410.
(Prior Code, § 12-583) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 1997-15, passed 1-
19-1999; Ord. 02-2012, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 157.09 ALTERATIONS IN PUBLIC WATERS.
   Changing the course, current or cross-section of public waters shall require
state and federal permits as specified in Minn. Rules part 6105.0420 before any
local permits may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 12-584) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 157.10 TRANSMISSION SERVICES.
   A permit from the Commissioner is required pursuant to M.S. §§ 84.415 or
103G.245, as they may be amended from time to time, before transmission
services may cross state-owned lands or public waters and shall be in
accordance with the natural resources regulations including Minn. Rules part
6105.0430.
(Prior Code, § 12-585) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 157.11 PUBLIC ROADS.
   A permit from the Commissioner of Natural Resources is required before
construction, reconstruction, removal or abandonment of any road or railroad
crossing of public waters within the riverway. The permit shall be in
accordance with the natural resources regulations including Minn. Rules part
6105.0440.
(Prior Code, § 12-586) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 157.12 REQUIREMENTS FOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   (1)   Any premises intended for human occupancy must be provided with
an adequate method of sewage disposal.
      (2)   Public or municipal collection and treatment facilities must be
used where available and where feasible. Where public or municipal facilities
are not available, all on-site individual sewer disposal systems shall conform
to the minimum standards as set forth in §
157.26 of this code. A septic tank/drainfield system shall be the only
acceptable system for installation unless it can be demonstrated that this
system is not feasible on the particular lot in question and it can be
demonstrated that the system being proposed as an alternate will not cause a
pollution problem.
   (B)   No person shall install, alter, repair or extend any individual sewer
disposal system without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Zoning
Administrator for the specific installation, alteration, repair or extension.
(Prior Code, § 12-587) (Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 157.13 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In the event of conflicting provisions in the text of this chapter, and/or
other articles, the more restrictive provision shall apply. The Zoning
Administrator shall determine which is more restrictive, and appeals from this
determination may be made in the manner provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 12-588)
§ 157.14 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES.
   Unless otherwise specified, all distances set forth in this chapter shall be
measured horizontally.
(Prior Code, § 12-589)
DISTRICTS
§ 157.25 DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of protecting the natural resources and natural scenic
values of the land within the boundaries of the Lower St. Croix Riverway and
because there is a difference in development patterns, Rural and Village
Historic Site (VHS) Districts shall be established.
   (B)   The boundaries of the Lower St. Croix Riverway and the Urban and Rural
Zoning Districts within the Riverway include all of the land riverward of the
legally described boundary line in the official copy of the Lower St. Croix
National Scenic Riverway Master Plan and as shown on the map designated as the
“City of Afton, Lower St. Croix Riverway Zoning District Map.”
   (C)   The boundaries of the Lower St. Croix Riverway Zoning District Map
designated as the “City of Afton, Lower St. Croix Riverway District Zoning Map”
published herewith is made a part of this chapter and is on file with the
Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 12-636)
§ 157.26 MINIMUM DISTRICT DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following chart sets forth the minimum area, setbacks and other
requirements of each district:
 Rural VHS
                                   Rural           VHS
Blufflines                         40 feet         40 feet
Building setback from bluffline    100 feet        40 feet
Building setback from ordinary     200 feet        100 feet
high water mark
Lot width at building setback line 200 feet        150 feet
Lot width at waterline             200 feet        150 feet
Maximum structure height           35 feet         35 feet
Maximum total lot area covered by  10% (1.5 acres) 20% or 4,350 square feet,
impervious surface                                 whichever is greater
Minimum lot size above ordinary    Five acres      One acre
high water mark
On-site sewage treatment system    40 feet         40 feet
setback from bluffline
On-site sewage treatment system
setback from ordinary high water   200 feet        100 feet
mark
On slopes less than 12%, the
controlled vegetative cutting      200 feet        100 feet
areas setback are from ordinary
high water mark
 
   (B)   No structures shall be placed or grading done on any slopes greater
than 12% (12 feet vertical rise in 100 feet horizontal distance).
   (C)   No structures shall be placed in any floodway. Structures proposed
within a floodplain shall be consistent with Ch. 159 of this code and state
floodplain ordinances.
   (D)   Exceptions to the minimal dimensional requirements include the
following.
      (1)   (a)   In Rural Districts, structure setbacks from a bluffline may
be reduced up to a minimum of 40 feet when can be demonstrated that no change
in the natural appearance of the shoreline, slope and bluffline will occur and
the structure will be visually inconspicuous in summer months as viewed from
the river. In reviewing the proposed building site, the City Council, after
input from the Zoning Administrator, and in cooperation with an agent of the
Commissioner of Natural Resources, and upon recommendation from the Planning
Commission after public hearing, may determine that the structure setback can
be varied to within the 40- to 100-foot range from a bluffline if the natural
appearance of the shoreline, slope and bluffline is preserved, and the
applicant shall agree to donate a scenic easement to the state and maintain the
scenic easement in an undisturbed condition and appearance.
         (b)   The scenic easement shall specify that on all land lying from
the proposed building line closest to the river, or property line closest to
the river, or lesser area subject to the easement as may be accepted by the
Commissioner, no destruction, cutting, trimming or removal of trees, shrubs,
bushes or plants, and no topographic changes of the natural landscape by
excavation, drainage, filling, dumping or any other means shall occur without a
written authorization from the Commissioner of Natural Resources.
      (2)   Permitted public facilities which by their nature require a
location on or adjacent to the public waters and which also require approval of
the Commissioner of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Temporary or seasonal docks which extend into the water a minimum
distance necessary for the launching or mooring of watercraft.
      (4)   Signs which are necessary for public health and safety or which
designate areas available or not available for public use.
      (5)   Visually inconspicuous stairways and lifts enabling access to the
river from steep slopes.
      (6)   On blufflines or shorelines with substandard adjacent structures on
both sides of a vacant, substandard lot, any new structure on the vacant lot
shall be setback the average setback of the adjacent structures plus 40 feet or
the minimum standard setback, whichever is less.
      (7)   The maximum height limitations for churches and other places of
worship shall be as follows:
         (a)   A maximum height of 35 feet for the occupied area of the
structure;
         (b)   A maximum height of 50 feet for the structural elements; and
         (c)   A maximum height of 60 feet for the following non-structural
elements: spires or steeples, belfries or bell towers, cupolas, crosses or
other religious symbols or decorative elements.
(Prior Code, § 12-637) (Ord. 97-46, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 46-2004, passed 8-
17-2004; Ord. 02-2008, passed 1-9-2008; Ord. 05-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
USES
§ 157.40 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of establishing standards and criteria for uses in the St. Croix
Riverway shall be to protect and preserve existing natural, scenic and
recreational values, to maintain proper relationships between various land use
types, and to prohibit new residential, commercial or industrial uses that are
inconsistent with the National Wild and Scenic Rivers Act and the federal and
state Lower St. Croix River Acts.
(Prior Code, § 12-701) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.41 PERMITTED USES.
   All structures associated with the following uses are permitted in the St.
Croix Riverway, subject to the dimensional requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   Conservancy;
   (B)   Agriculture; and
   (C)   Single-family residential.
(Prior Code, § 12-702)
§ 157.42 SITE PRESERVATION.
   The following standards and criteria are provided to preserve vegetative and
topographical screening, and to reduce surface run-off, soil erosion, and
nutrient loss.
(Prior Code, § 12-703) (Ord. 09-2023, passed 10-17-2023)
§ 157.43 VEGETATIVE CUTTING.
   (A)   Vegetative cutting permit. A vegetative cutting permit is required
prior to cutting of live trees and shrubs on land in the Lower St. Croix
Bluffland and Shoreland Overlay District. A permit may be issued only if a plan
is submitted and approved by the Zoning Administrator that is consistent with
the following vegetative cutting permit provisions, and if applicable, is
consistent with the requirements, guidelines and standards for vegetation
restoration, tree preservation, tree protection and tree replacement set out in
the divisions below:
      (1)   The cutting, including topping, may not involve trees greater than
six inches in diameter at a height of four and one-half feet above ground;
      (2)   The cutting, including topping, may not involve vegetation which is
screening any structure from view from the river;
      (3)   The essential character, quality, and density of existing growths
is preserved and continuous canopy cover is maintained;
      (4)   The reasonable removal of diseased, noxious, or hazardous trees or
shrubs is allowed with a vegetative cutting permit that is subject to pre-
inspection and confirmation by the city's forester or a landscape architect,
and may require a vegetation restoration plan. If the removals are on a slope
of 12% or greater, and/or if the removals are within 100 feet of the ordinary
high water line, a groundcover restoration plan and erosion control plan may be
required. Excessive removals are subject to restoration as required in division
(C)(3) below; or
      (5)   Trees and shrubs may not be removed to expand areas maintained as
lawn.
   (B)   Vegetative cutting exceptions. A vegetative cutting permit is not
required for the following activities, provided the existing quality,
character, density, and canopy is maintained as viewed from the river:
      (1)   Clearing the minimum necessary for a validly permitted structure,
septic system, roadway, and parking areas.
      (2)   Maintenance trimming or pruning on a particular parcel or in
transportation or utility rights-of-way.
      (3)   Clearing on land that is not within 200 feet of the ordinary high
water mark in rural districts, within 100 feet of the ordinary high water mark
in urban districts, on slopes greater than 12% or within 40 feet landward of
blufflines, provided the vegetation to be cleared is not screening any
structure from view from the river.
   (C)   Vegetation restoration.
      (1)   As a condition of approval, the Zoning Administrator may require a
vegetation restoration plan meeting the standards of division (C)(3) below.
      (2)   Vegetation cutting violations. Where a violation of the vegetative
cutting standards has been documented, the property owner shall be subject to a
vegetation restoration plan meeting the standards in division (C)(3) below.
      (3)   Standards for vegetation restoration.
         (a)   Vegetation restorations, when required, must be accompanied by a
restoration plan approved by the local Zoning Administrator. The plan must
identify all trees to be removed, as well as the replacements.
         (b)   Any removal of woody trees must be replaced with native species
consistent with the replacement standards in the table below. Replacements
shall be concentrated along shore and/or waterward of the location where the
removal occurred to screen the structure as viewed from the river.
         (c)   Near shore or highly erodible locations shall be planted with a
mix of deep-rooted woody and herbaceous vegetation with a high stem-density,
and if applicable, resilient to fluctuations in water levels.
         (d)   The plan must detail establishment and scheduled maintenance
over the next three years in the restoration plan, and is subject to
restoration for noncompliance or unsuccessful restorations.
         (e)   Restoration is subject to inspection by the Zoning Administrator
or Washington Conservation District to make a finding that tree survival/growth
and integrity and inherent stability of the existing landscape will be
maintained.
         (f)   See the following table for minimum replacement tree
requirements.
 
Diameter at Breast Height (DBH) of Number of Replacement Trees 2.5 inch. DBH
Exisiting Tree Removed             Minimum (Coniferous Trees 6 Foot Height
                                   Minimum)
Between 6 and 12 inches            3
Between 12 and 18 inches           4
Between 18 and 24 inches           5
Greater than 24 inches             7
 
         (g)   Tree preservation plan for new construction. The applicant must
provide a tree preservation plan certified by a forester or landscape architect
indicating all of the significant trees in the proposed construction area (for
purposes of applying this definition, construction area shall include all areas
to be disturbed by grading for excavation and fill permits and 30 feet
surrounding the building pad area, ten feet along driveways). The tree
preservation plan shall include the size, species and location of all
significant trees within the area and identify trees which would be removed.
Replacement of the trees must adhere to the tree replacement guidelines set
forth in division (C)(3)(f) above.
         (h)   The applicant for new home construction must provide a site plan
on a certified survey indicating the tree preservation plan originally
submitted and approved during the permitting process. Any additional tree loss
not approved during the permitting process must follow the replacement
guidelines. Furthermore, security for the tree replacement and reforestation
shall be required as set out in division (C)(3)(m) below.
         (i)   Tree protection. Snow fencing or erosion control fencing placed
at the drip line of significant trees to be preserved. The tree protection
measures shall remain in place until all primary grading activity is terminated
and the forester or landscape architect has certified to the city that the tree
preservation plan has been followed.
         (j)   Replacement requirements. Tree replacement shall be required if
construction removes any significant trees. Every tree lost shall require
replacement as shown in the table in division (C)(3)(f) above. The applicant
must supply a tree replacement plan which has been certified by a forester or
landscape architect.
         (k)   Significant tree loss occurring beyond the indicated tree
preservation plan as submitted during the permitting process shall require tree
replacement at the rate shown in division (C)(3)(f) above.
         (l)   Reforestation guidelines. The following criteria will be used to
determine reforestation:
            1.   Trees must be from the approved list of desirable species;
            2.   No more than one-third of the trees may be from any one tree
genus;
            3.   Not less than 20% of the trees shall be conifers;
            4.   Tree replacement sizes will be followed; and
            5.   Trees shall be used that are appropriate to the soil
conditions found on site.
         (m)   Security for tree replacement and reforestation. Security for
new construction, excavation and fill permits, or other land alteration
activities. Security, in the form of a letter of credit, cash, or escrow will
be provided by the applicant, in favor of the city, in the amount of 125% of
the estimated cost of the replacement trees (charged with the building permit
fees) will be held until the replacement trees have been planted and
successfully survived for a period of two years from the date of planting.
         (n)   Maintenance of tree replacement plantings. All plantings
required as part of an approved tree replacement plan shall be maintained in
good health for a period of at least 40 years, and the property owner shall
agree to the recording of a covenant on the property reflecting the maintenance
requirement.
   (D)   Penalties for illegal tree removals.
      (1)   Each tree illegally removed shall be considered a separate
misdemeanor, with each to be subject to the full misdemeanor penalties.
      (2)   Each tree illegally removed shall also be subject to a civil
penalty fee of a minimum of $2,000. The removal of a very old/very large tree
or a group of trees causing removal of 25% or more of the canopy and/or
screening in the area of the property from the shoreline to the rear of an
existing or proposed house shall be subject to a larger civil penalty fee.
      (3)   The penalties for illegal tree removals may be applied to both the
property owner and the contractor who illegally removes the trees.
(Prior Code, § 12-704) (Ord. 09-2023, passed 10-17-2023)
§ 157.44 GRADING AND FILLING.
   (A)   Grading, filling, excavating or otherwise changing the topography
landward of the ordinary high water mark shall not be conducted without a
grading permit from the Zoning Administrator. A grading permit may be issued
only if:
      (1)   Slopes greater than 12% (12 feet vertical rise in 100 horizontal
feet) are preserved to the greatest extent possible;
      (2)   Earthmoving, erosion, vegetative cutting, draining or filling of
wetlands and the destruction of natural amenities is minimized;
      (3)   The smallest amount of ground is exposed for as short a time as
feasible;
      (4)   During construction, temporary ground cover, such as mulch is used
and permanent ground cover, such as sod, is planted upon completion;
      (5)   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment are employed; and
      (6)   Fill is stabilized to accepted engineering standards.
   (B)   A separate grading and filling permit is not required for grading,
filling or excavating the minimum area necessary for a structure, sewage
disposal system and private road and parking area undertaken pursuant to a
validly issued building permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-705)
§ 157.45 CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Determination. Conditionally permitted uses are uses which normally
are not permitted in the Urban or Rural Districts of the St. Croix Riverway
unless it is determined by the City Council, after a public hearing before the
Planning Commission, that the proposed use shall:
      (1)   Preserve the scenic and recreational resources of the St. Croix
Riverway, especially in regard to the view from and use of the river;
      (2)   Maintain safe and healthful conditions; and
      (3)   Limit erosion potential of the site based on degree and direction
of slope, soil type and vegetative cover.
   (B)   Urban District conditionally permitted uses. URBAN DISTRICTS shall
mean Village Historic Site (VHS) District conditional uses. In the VHS
District, the conditionally permitted uses listed in §
157.03(C) of this code may be permitted as conditional uses, in accordance with
§
157.03(B) of this code.
   (C)   Rural District conditionally permitted uses. In Rural Districts of
this chapter, the following uses may be permitted as conditional uses:
      (1)   Governmental resource management and interpretative activities;
      (2)   Governmental highway waysides, rest areas, information areas and
scenic overlooks; and
      (3)   Marine services in the Riverway District.
(Prior Code, § 12-706) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 1997-15, passed 1-
19-1999; Ord. 05-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 157.46 PROHIBITED USES.
   In all districts within the St. Croix Riverway, the following new uses or
expansion of existing uses shall be prohibited:
   (A)   Sand and gravel operations;
   (B)   Junkyards;
   (C)   Mobile home parks;
   (D)   Downhill ski areas;
   (E)   Marinas downstream from Stillwater in Rural Districts; and
   (F)   All uses not authorized in the local zoning ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12-707) (Ord. 02-2012, passed 2-21-2012; Ord. 05-2015, passed 9-
15-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.47 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Uses which are prohibited by this chapter but which are in existence prior
to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter was derived
shall be nonconforming uses and may continue as lawful, nonconforming uses.
These uses shall not be intensified, enlarged or expanded beyond the permitted
or delineated boundaries of the use, activity or reclamation plan as stipulated
in the most current permit issued prior to the adoption of the ordinance from
which this chapter was derived.
(Prior Code, § 12-708) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 157.60 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In addition to the applicable administrative procedures set forth in
Ch. 153 of this code, the following procedures shall be implemented with
respect to land, subject to this chapter.
      (1)   A public hearing shall be held by the Planning Commission for all
zoning district amendments, conditional use permits, subdivision and variances.
      (2)   No less than 20 days prior to the public hearing, the Zoning
Administrator shall send notice and copies of the applicants information as
specified in §
157.65 of this code to the following agencies for review and comment:
         (a)   Department of Natural Resources; and
         (b)   The Planning Commission.
   (B)   The applicant for any permit requiring a public hearing shall submit
to the Council at least 30 days prior to the hearing, an abstractors
certificate showing the names and addresses of all property owners within 500
feet of the affected, in incorporated areas or one-half mile in unincorporated
areas.
   (C)   Notice of the purpose, time and place of any public hearing shall be
mailed to all property owners listed in division (B) above by the local
authority at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (D)   Notice of the purpose, time and place of any public hearing shall be
published in the official newspaper of the affected community at least ten days
prior to the date of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 12-831) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 05-2015, passed 9-
15-2015)
§ 157.61 CERTIFICATION BY THE COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Before any zoning district or ordinance amendment becomes final, the
Council shall forward the decision to the Commissioner.
   (B)   The Commissioner of Natural Resources shall certify in writing that
the proposed action complies with the intent of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Acts
and the master plan for the Lower St. Croix River in the manner specified in
Department of Natural Resources regulations, including Minn. Rules part
6105.0540.
(Prior Code, § 12-832) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 157.62 FORWARDING OF A FINAL DECISION.
   The local Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall forward decisions within ten
days of final action on all conditional use permits and subdivisions to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, § 12-833)
§ 157.63 PERMIT PROCESS.
   The permit process for Urban and Rural Districts shall be as follows:
 Urban District Rural District
                                Urban District Rural District
Amendments to district boundary PH-CC          PH-CC
Amendments to ordinance         PH-CC          PH-CC
Building permits                LP             LP
Conditional use permits         PH-FD          PH-FD
Grading permits                 LP             LP
Plats and cluster developments  PH-WA-FD       PH-WA-FD
Septic permits                  LP             LP
Tree cutting permits            LP             LP
Variances                       PH             PH
 
CC Certification by the Commissioner of Natural Resources prior to final local
   approval.
FD Local authority forwards any decisions to the Commissioner of Natural
   Resources within ten days after taking final action.
LP Permit issued by the local authority in accordance with this chapter and all
   other local permits.
   Public hearing necessary by the local authority giving a 20-day notice of
PH meeting to the Commissioner of Natural Resources and other agencies listed
   in §
   157.60(A)(2) of this code.
   The Commissioner of Natural Resources shall submit, after notice of public
WA hearing and before the local authority gives preliminary approval, a written
   review and approval of the project.
 
(Prior Code, § 12-834) (Ord. 1997-15, passed 1-19-1999)
§ 157.64 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be granted where there are practical difficulties
which make the strict enforcement of this chapter impractical, and only when
the variances are in harmony with the general purposes and intent of the
ordinance and when the terms of the variance are consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan. “Practical difficulties” as used in connection with the
granting of a variance includes a three-factor test, all three of which must be
met in order for a variance to be granted.
      (1)   Reasonableness. The property owner proposes to use the property in
a reasonable manner not permitted by the zoning ordinance.
      (2)   Uniqueness. The plight of the landowners is due to circumstances
unique to the property not created by the landowner.
      (3)   Essential character. The variance, if granted, will not alter the
essential character of the locality.
   (B)   Economic considerations alone shall not constitute a practical
difficulty if a reasonable use of the property and associated structures exists
under the conditions allowed by this chapter. In addition, no variance shall be
granted that would permit any use that is prohibited in this chapter in which
the subject property is located. Conditions may be imposed in the granting of a
variance to ensure compliance and to protect adjacent properties and the public
interest, especially in regard to the view from the river.
   (C)   The formal public hearing for a variance shall be held by the Planning
Commission as set forth in
Ch. 153 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-835) (Ord. 02-2014, passed 5-20-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.65 REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC HEARING.
   The applicant shall submit sufficient copies of the following information
and additional information if requested to the local authority 30 days prior to
the public hearing on the application for a special use, variance or
subdivision:
   (A)   Plat of survey showing the property location, boundaries, dimensions,
elevations, blufflines, utility and roadway corridors, the ordinary high water
mark, floodway and floodplain;
   (B)   The most recent aerial photo of the property with property lines drawn
in;
   (C)   Location of existing and proposed structures including height and
setback dimensions;
   (D)   Location of existing and proposed alterations of vegetation and
topography;
   (E)   Adjoining water-oriented uses;
   (F)   Suitability of the area for on-site waste disposal. Type, size and
location of the system shall be indicated. If a public or municipal wastewater
collection and treatment system is to be utilized, the applicant must submit a
written agreement from the municipality or sanitary authority indicating that
the system has the capacity to handle the development;
   (G)   Water supply system; and
   (H)   An estimate of permanent and transient residents.
(Prior Code, § 12-836)
§ 157.66 FACTORS CONSIDERED.
   When considering a proposal or zoning amendment within the St. Croix River
District, the Council shall address the following items in making its
decisions:
   (A)   Preserving the scenic and recreational resources of the St. Croix
Riverway, especially in regard to the view from and use of the river;
   (B)   The maintenance of safe and healthful conditions;
   (C)   The prevention and control of water pollution, including
sedimentation;
   (D)   The location of the site with respect to floodways, floodplains,
slopes and blufflines;
   (E)   The erosion potential of the site based on degree and direction of
slope, soil type and vegetative cover;
   (F)   Potential impact on game and fish habitat;
   (G)   Location of the site with respect to existing or future access roads;
   (H)   The amount of wastes to be generated and the adequacy of the proposed
disposal systems;
   (I)   The anticipated demand for police, fire, medical and school services
and facilities; and
   (J)   The compatibility of the proposed development with uses on adjacent
land.
(Prior Code, § 12-837)
CHAPTER 158: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
158.01   Statutory authorization
   
158.02   Purpose
   
158.03   Scope
   
158.04   Abrogation; greater restrictions
   
158.05   Stormwater management permit
   
158.06   Erosion and sediment control plan
   
158.07   Buffers
   
158.08   Exemptions
   
158.09   Definitions
Permitting Processes, Performance Standards
   
158.20   Permit review process
   
158.21   Site design and MIDS calculator
   
158.22   Stormwater volume reduction performance standards
   
158.23   Flexible treatment alternatives for sites with restrictions
   
158.24   Stormwater management rate control
   
158.25   Other design standards
Inspections, Maintenance and Enforcement
   
158.40   Inspections and record keeping
   
158.41   Right of entry and inspection
   
158.42   Fees
   
158.43   Enforcement tools and stop work orders
   
158.44   Long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater facilities
   
158.45   Financial securities
   
158.46   Enforcement
 
   
158.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and policies
contained in M.S. Ch. 103B, 103D and 462, as they may be amended from time to
time; Minn. Rules parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900; and Minn. Rules parts 8410
and 8420.
   (B)   This chapter is intended to meet the construction site erosion and
sediment control and post construction stormwater management regulatory
requirements for construction activity and small construction activity (NPDES
permit) as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14)(x) and (b)(15), respectively.
   (C)   This chapter is intended to meet the minimal impact design standards
(MIDS) developed under M.S. § 115.03 subdivision 5c, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulatory requirements
for land development and land disturbing activities aimed at minimizing the
threats to public health, safety, public and private property and natural
resources within the city from construction site erosion and postconstruction
stormwater runoff.
   (B)   Specifically, the ordinance establishes regulatory requirements that:
      (1)   Meet MIDS performance standards;
      (2)   Assist in meeting NPDES/SDS construction stormwater general permit
requirements;
      (3)   Assist in meeting Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) plan waste load
allocations for impaired waters through quantification of load reductions;
      (4)   Assist in meeting policies and performance standards of the Middle
St. Croix Water Management Organization (MSCWMO) and Valley Branch Watershed
District (VBWD);
      (5)   Protect life and property from dangers associated with flooding;
      (6)   Protect public and private property and natural resources from
damage resulting from stormwater runoff and erosion;
      (7)   Ensure site design minimizes the generation of stormwater runoff
and maximizes pervious areas for stormwater treatment within the context of the
allowable use;
      (8)   Provide a single, consistent set of performance goals that apply to
all developments;
      (9)   Protect water quality from pollutant loadings of sediment,
suspended solids, nutrients, heavy metals, toxics, debris, bacteria, pathogens,
biological impairments, thermal stress and other pollutants;
      (10)   Promote infiltration and groundwater recharge;
      (11)   Provide vegetated corridors (buffers) to protect water resources
from development;
      (12)   Protect functional values of all types of natural waterbodies
(e.g, rivers, streams, wetlands, lakes, seasonal ponds); and
      (13)   Sustain or enhance biodiversity (native plant and animal habitat)
and support riparian ecosystems.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.03 SCOPE.
   Land shall not be developed for any use without providing stormwater
management measures and erosion and sediment control measures that control or
manage stormwater runoff from the developments.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.04 ABROGATION; GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Relationship to watershed district/water management organization
requirements.
      (1)   All stormwater management and erosion and sediment control
activities shall comply with all applicable requirements of the relevant Water
Management Organization or Watershed District.
      (2)   In the case of conflict between provisions of this chapter and
other stormwater regulations, the strictest provisions shall apply to land
development and/or land disturbing activities.
   (B)   Relationship to city zoning requirements. In the case of conflict
between provisions of this chapter and other regulations in the city’s Zoning
Code, the strictest provisions shall apply to land development, construction
and/or land disturbing activities.
   (C)   Relationship to existing easements, covenants and deed restrictions.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to repeal, abrogate
or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
      (2)   However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.05 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   All stormwater management permits shall include an Erosion and
Sediment Control Plan (ESC Plan) or a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
(SWPPP).
   (B)   Unless otherwise exempted by §
158.08 of this code, an approved stormwater management permit shall be required
prior to any proposed land development activity that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Any project that creates or fully reconstruct 6,000 square feet or
more of impervious surface;
      (2)   All major subdivisions or minor subdivisions that are part of a
common plan of development;
      (3)   Projects within the St. Croix Riverway that add 500 square feet or
greater of additional impervious surface;
      (4)   Any project requiring a variance from the current local impervious
surface zoning requirements for the property; or
      (5)   Any land development activity, regardless of size, that the city
determines is likely to cause an adverse impact to an environmentally sensitive
area or other property.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.06 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN.
   Unless otherwise exempted by §
158.08 of this code, an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan shall be required as
part of any grading and filling permit or building permit which proposes any
land disturbing activity that meets any of the following criteria:
   (A)   Any project undertaking grading, filling or other land alteration
activities which involve
movement of 100 cubic yards of earth or removal of vegetation on greater than
6,000 square feet of land;
   (B)   Any project with wetland impacts, grading within public waters,
grading within buffers or
within 40 feet of the bluff line; or
   (C)   A land disturbing activity, regardless of size, that the city
determines is likely to cause an
adverse impact to an environmentally sensitive area or other property, or may
violate any other erosion and sediment control standard set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.07 BUFFERS.
   A buffer of unmowed natural vegetation shall be required upslope of
wetlands, lakes and streams prior to the approval of any proposed land
development requiring a subdivision, lot split, rezoning, special use permit or
variance, unless otherwise exempted in §
158.08 of this code.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities shall be exempt from all of the requirements of
this chapter:
   (A)   Emergency work necessary to protect life, limb or property; and
   (B)   Routine agricultural activity such as tilling, planting, harvesting
and associated activities. Other agricultural activities are not exempt
including activities such as construction of structures.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.09 DEFINITIONS.
   Words or phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings as defined by
Appendix B of the state’s construction stormwater permit No: MN R100001
(construction permit.) If not defined in the construction permit, then for the
purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words or phrases
shall be interpreted so as to give this chapter its most reasonable
application. For the purpose of this chapter, the words “must,” “shall” and
“will” are mandatory and not permissive.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land submitting an application under the provisions
of this chapter for a stormwater management permit (SWMP) and/or Erosion and
Sediment Control Plan (ESC Plan) to be issued by the community.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). The most effective and practicable means
of erosion prevention and sediment control, and water quality management
practices that are the most effective and practicable means to control, prevent
and minimize degradation of surface water, including avoidance of impacts,
construction-phasing, minimizing the length of time soil areas are exposed,
prohibitions, pollution prevention through good housekeeping, and other
management practices published by state or designated area-wide planning
agencies.
   BETTER SITE DESIGN. The control and management of stormwater quantity and
quality through the application of better site design techniques as outlined in
the current version of the state’s Stormwater Manual. BETTER SITE DESIGN
includes: preservation of natural areas; site reforestation; stream and
shoreland buffers; open space design; disconnection of impervious cover;
rooftop disconnection; grass channels; stormwater landscaping; compost and
amended soils; impervious surface reduction; and trout stream protection.
   COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A contiguous area where multiple
separate and distinct land disturbing activities may be taking place at
different times, on different schedules, but under one proposed plan. One plan
is broadly defined to include design, permit application, advertisement or
physical demarcation indicating that land-disturbing activities may occur.
Available at http://www.pca.state.mn.us/wfhya5b.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Includes CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY as defined in 40
C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14)(x) and small construction activity as defined in 40
C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(15) and CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY as defined by Minn. Rules part
7090.0080, subpart 4. This includes a disturbance to the land that results in a
change in the topography, existing soil cover (both vegetative and non-
vegetative), or the existing soil topography that may result in accelerated
stormwater runoff, leading to soil erosion and movement of sediment into
surface waters or drainage systems. Examples of CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY may
include clearing, grading, filling and excavating. CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY
includes the disturbance of less than one acre of total land area that is a
part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan
will ultimately disturb one acre or more. CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY does not
include a disturbance to the land of less than five acres for the purpose of
routine maintenance that is performed to maintain the original line and grade,
hydraulic capacity or original purpose of the facility. (Note: The community
may wish to change this to a smaller disturbance area. A smaller area is more
restrictive than the state or federal requirements, so it would be allowable
for a local government.)
   DEVELOPMENT, NEW. Any development that results in the conversion of land
that is currently prairie, agriculture, forest or meadow. Land that was
previously developed, but now razed and vacant, will not be considered NEW
DEVELOPMENT.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN (ESC PLAN). A plan for projects disturbing
less than one acre that is in compliance with the minimum requirements of the
MSCWMO and VBWD. The plan identifies erosion prevention and sediment control
practices, location and timelines for installation. The plan also includes
responsible parties and timelines for inspection and maintenance.
   EROSION PREVENTION. Measures employed to prevent erosion. Examples include
but not limited to: soil stabilization practices; limited grading; mulch;
temporary erosion protection or permanent cover; and construction phasing.
   FULLY RECONSTRUCTED IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Areas where impervious surfaces have
been removed down to the underlying soils. Activities such as structure
renovation, mill and overlay projects and pavement rehabilitation projects that
do not alter underlying soil material beneath the structure, pavement or
activity are not considered FULLY RECONSTRUCTED IMPERVIOUS SURFACES. Reusing
the entire existing building foundation and re-roofing of an existing building
are not considered fully reconstructed.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A hard surface created by construction or usage, that
either prevents or retards the entry of water into the soil and causes water to
run off the surface in greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than
prior to development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways,
parking lots, storage areas and concrete, asphalt or gravel roads.
   LAND DISTURBANCE. Any activity that result in a change or alteration in the
existing ground cover (both vegetative and nonvegetative) and/or the existing
soil topography. LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITIES include, but are not limited to,
development, redevelopment, demolition, construction, reconstruction, clearing,
grading, filling, stockpiling, excavation and borrow pits. Routine vegetation
management and mill and overlay/resurfacing activities that do not alter the
soil material beneath the pavement base, are not considered LAND DISTURBANCE.
In addition, other maintenance activities such as catch basin and pipe repair/
replacement, lighting and pedestrian ramp improvements shall not be considered
LAND DISTURBANCE for the purposes of determining permanent stormwater
management requirements.
   LINEAR PROJECT. Construction or reconstruction of roads, trails, sidewalks
and rail lines that are not part of a common plan of development or sale. Mill,
overlay and other resurfacing projects are not considered to be reconstruction.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions or
simple subdivisions including, but not limited to, subdivisions of four or more
lots, or any size subdivision requiring any new street or extension of an
existing street, or extension of the local government facilities, or the
creation of any public improvements
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing three or less lots fronting on
an existing street, not part of a common plan of development nor involving any
new street or road or the extension of municipal facilities.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). The program for
issuing, modifying, revoking, reissuing, terminating, monitoring and enforcing
permits under the Clean Water Act (§§ 301, 318, 402 and 405 and being 33 U.S.C.
§§ 1311, 1328, 1342 and 1345).
   OWNER. The person or party possessing the title of the land on which the
construction activities will occur; or if the construction activity is for a
lease, easement or mineral rights license holder, the party or individual
identified as the lease, easement or mineral rights license holder; or the
contracting government agency responsible for the construction activity.
   PERMANENT COVER. Surface types that will prevent soil failure under erosive
conditions. Examples include: gravel, asphalt, concrete, riprap, rooftops,
perennial cover or other landscaped material that will permanently arrest soil
erosion. A uniform perennial vegetative cover (e.g., evenly distributed,
without large bare areas) with a density of 70% of the native background
vegetative cover for the area must be established on all unpaved areas and
areas not covered by permanent structures, or equivalent permanent
stabilization measures. PERMANENT COVER does not include the practices listed
under temporary erosion protection.
   PERMITTEE. A person or persons, firm or governmental agency or other entity
that signs the application submitted to the city and is responsible for
compliance with the terms and conditions of the permit.
   PREDEVELOPMENT STATE. The rate and volume of stormwater is unchanged. The
calculation of predevelopment is based on native soils and vegetation.
   PUBLIC WATERS. All water basins and watercourses that are described in M.S.
§ 103G.005, subdivision 15, as it may be amended from time to time.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Any development that is not considered new development.
   RETAIN. Manage stormwater on site using a low-impact development approach so
that the rate and volume of predevelopment stormwater reaching receiving waters
is unchanged.
   ST. CROIX RIVERWAY. All lands and public waters within the riverway boundary
subject to the standards and criteria for the Lower Saint Croix National Scenic
Riverway in the state.
   SATURATED SOIL. The highest seasonal elevation in the soil that is in a
reduced chemical state because of soil voids being filled with water. SATURATED
SOIL is evidenced by the presence of soil mottling associated with the presence
of water or other information.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving the
site. SEDIMENT CONTROL practices include: silt fences, sediment traps, earth
dikes, drainage swales, check dams, subsurface drains, bio rolls, rock logs,
compost logs, storm drain inlet protection and temporary or permanent
sedimentation basins.
   STORMWATER FACILITY. A stationary and permanent BMP that is designed,
constructed and operated to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants in
stormwater.
   SMALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. As defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(15). SMALL
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES include clearing, grading and excavating that result in
land disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre and less than five acres.
SMALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY includes the disturbance of less than one acre of
total land area that is part of a larger common plan of development or sale if
the larger common plan will ultimately disturb equal to or greater than one and
less than five acres.
   STABILIZED. Exposed ground surface has been covered by appropriate materials
such as mulch, staked sod, riprap, erosion control blanket, mats or other
material that prevents erosion from occurring. Seeding alone, whether grass,
agricultural crop or other seeding, is not stabilization. Mulch materials must
achieve approximately 90% ground coverage (typically two ton/acre).
   STORMWATER. As defined under Minn. Rules part 7077.0105, subpart 41b, and
includes precipitation runoff, stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff and any other
surface runoff and drainage.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan for stormwater
discharge that includes erosion prevention BMPs, sediment control BMPs and
permanent stormwater management systems that, when implemented, will decrease
soil erosion on a parcel of land and decrease off-site nonpoint pollution.
   SURFACE WATER(S). All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, wetlands, reservoirs,
springs, rivers, drainage systems, waterways, watercourses and irrigation
systems whether natural or artificial, public or private, except that SURFACE
WATERS do not include treatment basins or ponds that were constructed from
upland.
   TEMPORARY EROSION PROTECTION. Methods employed to prevent erosion during
construction activities. Examples of TEMPORARY EROSION PROTECTION include;
straw, wood fiber blanket, wood chips, vegetation, mulch and rolled erosion
control products.
   UNDERGROUND WATERS (GROUNDWATER). Water contained below the surface of the
earth in the saturated zone including, without limitation, all waters whether
under confined, unconfined or perched conditions, in near surface
unconsolidated sediment or in rock formations deeper underground. The term
GROUNDWATER shall be synonymous with UNDERGROUND WATER.
   WETLAND(S). As defined in Minn. Rules part 7050.0186, subpart 1a(B) and
includes those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions. WETLANDS generally include swamps,
marshes, bogs and similar areas. Constructed wetlands designed for wastewater
treatment are not waters of the state. WETLANDS must have the following
attributes:
      (1)   A predominance of hydric soils;
      (2)   Inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation typically adapted for life in a saturated soil condition; and
      (3)   Under normal circumstances support a prevalence of vegetation.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
PERMITTING PROCESSES, PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 158.20 PERMIT REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting. At the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator, the city shall facilitate a pre-application meeting with the
applicant, city staff (or their authorized representative) and staff of
relevant partner agencies (e.g., WCD, MSCWMO, VBWD, MDNR and the like). The
purposes of the meeting are to understand the general parameters of the
proposed project and to convey the requirements of meeting the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Application completeness review. The city shall make a determination
regarding the completeness of a permit application and notify the applicant in
writing if the application is not complete including the reasons the
application was deemed incomplete.
   (C)   Application review. The applicant shall not commence any construction
activity subject to this chapter until a permit has been authorized by the
city.
   (D)   Permit authorization. If the city determines that the application
meets the requirements of this chapter, the city may issue approval authorizing
the project or activity. The approval shall be valid for one year.
   (E)   Permit denial. If the city determines the application does not meet
the requirements of this chapter the application must be denied. If the
application is denied, the applicant will be notified of the denial in writing
including reasons for the denial. Once denied, a new application must be
resubmitted for approval before any activity may begin.
   (F)   Plan information requirements. The minimum information requirements of
the application shall be consistent with the requirements in the most recent
version of the NPDES/SDS construction stormwater general permit and Middle St.
Croix WMO or Valley Branch Watershed District performance standards. The
application information must also include permanent treatment information
showing the proposed project meets the MSC WMO or VBWD performance goals.
   (G)   Modification of permitted plans. If any of the following instances
occur to a site with an approved ESC Plan or SWMP, the applicant shall apply
for an amendment to the associated permit(s), submitting all updated materials,
reflecting the needed changes; the review of the amended materials shall use
the same process as a new submittal, as designated in this chapter.
      (1)   There is a change in design, construction, operation, maintenance,
weather or seasonal conditions that has a significant effect on the discharge
of pollutants to surface water or underground water.
      (2)   Inspections or investigations by site operators, local, state or
federal officials indicate the plans are not effective in eliminating or
significantly minimizing the discharge of pollutants to surface water or
underground water or that the discharges are causing water quality standard
exceedances.
      (3)   The plan is not achieving the general objectives of minimizing
pollutants in stormwater discharges associated with construction activity.
   (H)   Permit completion. Before work under the permit is deemed complete,
the permittee must submit as-builts, a long-term maintenance plan and
information demonstrating that the stormwater facilities conform to design
specifications.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.21 SITE DESIGN AND MIDS CALCULATOR.
   (A)   Better site design. Whenever possible, development projects shall be
designed using the better site design techniques of the current version of the
state’s Stormwater Manual.
   (B)   MIDS calculator. Final site design and choice of permanent stormwater
volume reduction practices shall be based on outcomes of the MIDS calculator
(or other model that shows the performance goal can be met) and shall meet the
performance standards in §
158.22 of this code.
   (C)   Buffer requirement. Buffer locations and widths must comply with the
state, the state’s Pollution Control Agency and Middle St. Croix Watershed
Management Organization or Valley Branch Watershed District standards.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.22 STORMWATER VOLUME REDUCTION PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   Any applicant for a stormwater management permit as defined in Section 2
must meet all of the following performance standards:
   (A)   New development volume control. For new, nonlinear developments on
sites without restrictions, stormwater runoff volumes will be controlled and
the post-construction runoff volume shall be retained on site for one and one-
tenth inches of runoff from all impervious surfaces on the site.
   (B)   Redevelopment volume control. Nonlinear redevelopment projects on
sites without restrictions that create or fully reconstruct impervious surfaces
shall capture and retain on site one and one-tenth inches of runoff from the
new and/or fully reconstructed impervious surfaces.
   (C)   Linear development volume control. Linear projects on sites without
restrictions that create new and/or fully reconstructed impervious surfaces,
shall capture and retain the larger of the following:
      (1)   Fifty-five hundredths inches of runoff from the new and fully
reconstructed impervious surfaces on the site; or
      (2)   One and one-tenth inches of runoff from the net increase in
impervious area on the site. Mill and overlay and other resurfacing activities
are not considered fully reconstructed.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.23 FLEXIBLE TREATMENT ALTERNATIVES FOR SITES WITH RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Applicant shall attempt to comply fully with the appropriate
performance standards described above. Alternatives considered and presented
shall examine the merits of relocating project elements to address, varying
soil conditions and other constraints across the site.
   (B)   If full compliance is not possible due to any of the factors listed
below, the applicant must document the reason. If site constraints or
restrictions limit the full treatment goal, the following flexible treatment
alternatives shall be used.
      (1)   Applicant shall document the flexible treatment alternatives
sequence starting with Alternative #1. If Alternative #1 cannot be met, then
Alternative #2 shall be analyzed. Applicants must document the specific reasons
why Alternative #1 cannot be met based on the factors listed below.
      (2)   If Alternative #2 cannot be met, then Alternative #3 shall be met.
Applicants must document the specific reasons why Alternative #2 cannot be met
based on the factors listed below.
      (3)   When all of the conditions are fulfilled within an alternative,
this sequence is completed.
   (C)   Volume reduction techniques considered shall include infiltration,
reuse and rainwater harvesting and canopy interception and evapotranspiration
and/or additional techniques included in the MIDS calculator and the state’s
Stormwater Manual.
   (D)   Higher priority shall be given to BMPs that include volume reduction.
Secondary preference is to employ filtration techniques, followed by rate
control BMPs. Factors to be considered for each alternative will include:
      (1)   Karst geology;
      (2)   Shallow bedrock;
      (3)   High groundwater;
      (4)   Hotspots or contaminated soils;
      (5)   Drinking water source management areas or within 200 feet of
drinking water well;
      (6)   Zoning, setbacks or other land use requirements; and
      (7)   Poor soils (infiltration rates that are too low or too high,
problematic urban soils).
   (E)   Alternative #1. Applicant attempts to comply with the following
conditions:
      (1)   Achieve at least fifty-five hundredths inches volume reduction from
all impervious surfaces if the site is new development or from the new and/or
fully reconstructed impervious surfaces for a redevelopment or linear
development site;
      (2)   Remove 75% of the annual TP load from all impervious surfaces if
the site is new development or from the new and/or fully reconstructed
impervious surfaces for a redevelopment site; and
      (3)   Options considered and presented shall examine the merits of
relocating project elements to address, varying soil conditions and other
constraints across the site.
   (F)   Alternative #2. Applicant attempts to comply with the following
conditions:
      (1)   Achieve volume reduction to the maximum extent practicable;
      (2)   Remove 60% of the annual TP load from all impervious surfaces if
the site is new development or from the new and/or fully reconstructed
impervious surfaces for a redevelopment site; and
      (3)   Options considered and presented shall examine the merits of
relocating project elements to address, varying soil conditions and other
constraints across the site.
   (G)   Alternative #3. Off-site treatment.
      (1)   Mitigation equivalent to the performance of one and one-tenth
inches of volume reduction for new development, linear development or
redevelopment as described above in this section, (including banking or cash)
can be performed off-site to protect the receiving waterbody.
      (2)   Off-site treatment shall be achieved in areas selected in the
following order of preference:
         (a)   Locations that yield benefits to the same receiving water that
receives runoff from the original construction activity;
         (b)   Locations within the same Department of Natural Resource (DNR)
catchment area (Hydrologic Unit 08) as the original construction activity;
         (c)   Locations within the next adjacent DNR catchment area upstream;
and
         (d)   Locations anywhere within the city’s jurisdiction.
      (3)   The MIDS design sequence flowchart can be found in the state’s
Stormwater Manual, available at http://stormwater.pca.state.mn.us/index.php/
Flexible_treatment_options.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.24 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT RATE CONTROL.
   For new development, redevelopment and linear development sites the site
design shall provide onsite treatment during construction and post-construction
to ensure no increase from existing conditions in offsite peak discharge for
the one-year, two-year, ten-year and 100-year, 24-hour storm events based on
the standards defined by the MSCWMO or VBWD. For single-family residential
building lots not part of a common plan of development site rate control
requirements do not apply.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.25 OTHER DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Stormwater Manual. All volume control for water quality and quantity
and site design specifications shall conform to the current version of the
state’s Stormwater Manual.
   (B)   NPDES/SDS construction stormwater general permit. All volume control
and water quality and quantity best management practice design specifications
shall conform to the current version of the NPDES/SDS construction stormwater
general permit.
   (C)   Site erosion and sediment control requirements. All erosion and
sediment control requirements shall conform to the current requirements of
NPDES/SDS construction stormwater general permit.
   (D)   Watershed District/WMO requirements. All stormwater management and
erosion and sediment control activities shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the Watershed Districts or Watershed Management Organizations
in which the project is located. In case provisions in this chapter and
requirements of Watershed District or Watershed Management Organizations
overlap or conflict, the strictest provisions shall apply to the activities.
   (E)   Publicly-owned stormwater facilities. Where applicable, a minimum of
20 feet shall be provided on all sides of all publicly-owned stormwater
facilities for facility maintenance.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
INSPECTIONS, MAINTENANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 158.40 INSPECTIONS AND RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Applicant responsibilities. The applicant is responsible for
inspections and record keeping during and after construction for all privately-
owned stormwater treatment practices on the site.
   (B)   City inspections. The city reserves the right to conduct inspections
on a regular basis to ensure that both temporary and permanent stormwater
management and erosion and sediment control measures are properly installed and
maintained prior to construction, during construction and at the completion of
the project.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.41 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   The issuance of a permit constitutes a right-of-entry for the city or
its authorized representative to enter upon the construction site, in
accordance with §
10.20 of this code.
   (B)   The applicant shall allow the city and its authorized representatives,
upon presentation of credentials, to:
      (1)   Enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of obtaining
information, examining records and conducting investigations or surveys;
      (2)   Bring the equipment upon the permitted development as is necessary
to conduct surveys and investigations;
      (3)   Examine and copy any books, papers, records or memoranda pertaining
to activities or records required to be kept under the terms and conditions of
the permit;
      (4)   Inspect the stormwater pollution control measures;
      (5)   Sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to stormwater
pollution control measures; and
      (6)   Correct deficiencies in stormwater and erosion and sediment control
measures.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.42 FEES.
   Fees will be applied per the city’s fee schedule.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.43 ENFORCEMENT TOOLS AND STOP WORK ORDERS.
   The city reserves the right to issue construction stop work orders when
cooperation with inspections is withheld or when a violation has been
identified that needs immediate attention to protect human health and/or the
environment.
   (A)   Construction stop work order. The city may issue construction stop
work orders until stormwater management measures meet specifications and the
applicant repairs any damage caused by stormwater runoff. An inspection by the
city must follow before the construction project work can resume.
   (B)   Other actions to ensure compliance. The city can take any combination
of the following actions in the event of a failure by applicant to meet the
terms of this chapter:
      (1)   Withhold inspections or issuance of certificates or approvals;
      (2)   Revoke any permit issued by the city to the applicant;
      (3)   Conduct remedial or corrective action on the development site or
adjacent site affected by the failure;
      (4)   Charge applicant for all costs associated with correcting the
failure or remediating damage from the failure; if payment is not made within
30 days, payment will be made from the applicant’s financial securities; and/or
      (5)   Bring other actions against the applicant to recover costs of
remediation or meeting the terms of this chapter;
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.44 LONG-TERM INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF STORMWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Private stormwater facilities.
      (1)   Maintenance plan required.
         (a)   No private stormwater facilities may be approved unless a
maintenance agreement is provided that defines who will conduct the
maintenance, the type of maintenance necessary to ensure effective performance
and the maintenance intervals.
         (b)   All private stormwater facilities shall be inspected by the
property owner and maintained in proper condition by the owner consistent with
the performance goals for which they were originally designed.
      (2)   Facility access. The applicant shall obtain all necessary easements
or other property interests to allow access to the facilities for inspection or
maintenance for both the responsible party and the city or authorized
representative.
      (3)   Removal of settled materials. All settled materials including
settled solids, shall be removed from ponds, sumps, grit chambers and other
devices as necessary and disposed of properly.
      (4)   Inspections. All stormwater facilities within the city shall be
inspected by the property owner at a frequency consistent with the maintenance
plan. Inspection reports shall be provided to the city upon request.
   (B)   Public stormwater facilities.
      (1)   Acceptance of publicly-owned facilities. Before work under the
permit is deemed complete, the permittee must submit as-builts and a
maintenance plan demonstrating at the time of final stabilization that the
stormwater facilities conform to design specifications. A final inspection
shall be required before the city accepts ownership of the stormwater
facilities.
      (2)   Maintenance. The city shall perform maintenance of publicly-owned
stormwater facilities in accordance with their comprehensive stormwater
management plan and other regulatory requirements.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 158.45 FINANCIAL SECURITIES.
   (A)   Amount. At the discretion of the city, the city may require a
financial security from the applicant in an amount sufficient to cover the
entirety of the estimated costs of permitted and remedial work based on the
final design as established in a set financial security schedule determined by
the city.
   (B)   Release. The financial security shall not be released until all
permitted and remedial work is completed.
   (C)   Use by city. The financial security may be used by the city to
complete work not completed by the applicant.
   (D)   Form of security. The form of the financial security shall be one or a
combination of the following to be determined by the city.
      (1)   Cash deposit. A financial security for erosion and sediment
control, as determined by the city, shall be by cash deposit to the city. The
cash will be held by city in a separate account.
      (2)   Security deposit. Deposit, either with the city, a responsible
escrow agent or trust company, at the option of the city, either:
         (a)   An irrevocable letter of credit, negotiable bonds of the kind
approved for securing deposits of public money, or other instruments of credit
from one or more financial institutions, subject to regulation by the state and
federal government wherein the financial institution pledges funds are on
deposit and guaranteed for payment;
         (b)   Cash in U.S. currency; or
         (c)   Other forms and securities (e.g., disbursing agreement) as
approved by the city.
   (E)   City indemnity. This financial security shall hold the city free and
harmless from all suits or claims for damages resulting from the negligent
grading, removal, placement or storage of rock, sand, gravel, soil or other
like material within the city.
   (F)   Maintaining the financial security. If at any time during the course
of the work the balance of the financial security falls below 50% of the total
required deposit, the applicant shall make another deposit in the amount
necessary to restore the cash deposit to the required amount. If the applicant
does not bring the financial security back up to the required amount within
seven days after notification by the city that the amount has fallen below 50%
of the required amount the city may:
      (1)   Withhold the scheduling of inspections and/or the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy; or
      (2)   Revoke any permit issued by the city to the applicant for the site
in question or any other of the applicant’s sites within the city’s
jurisdiction.
   (G)   Action against the financial security. The city may access the
financial security for remediation actions if any of the conditions listed
below exist. The city shall use the financial security to pay for remedial work
undertaken by the city, or a private contractor under contract with the city,
or to reimburse the city for all costs incurred in the process of remedial work
including, but not limited to, staff time and attorney’s fees.
      (1)   Abandonment. The applicant ceases land disturbing activities and/or
filling and abandons the work site prior to completion of the grading plan.
      (2)   Failure to implement the SWPPP or ESC Plan. The applicant fails to
conform to the grading plan and/or the SWPPP as approved by the city.
      (3)   Failure to perform. The BMPs utilized on the project fail within
one year of installation.
      (4)   Failure to reimburse city. The applicant fails to reimburse the
city for corrective action taken.
   (H)   Proportional reduction of the financial security.
      (1)   When more than one-third of the applicant’s maximum exposed soil
area achieves final stabilization, the city can reduce the total required
amount of the financial security by one-third. When more than two-thirds of the
applicant’s maximum exposed soil area achieves final stabilization, the city
can reduce the total required amount of the financial security to two-thirds of
the initial amount. This reduction in financial security will be determined by
the city.
      (2)   The security deposited with the city for faithful performance of
the SWPPP or the ESC plan and any related remedial work shall be released one
full year after the completion of the installation of all stormwater pollution
control measures, including vegetation establishment, as shown on the SWPPP or
ESC plan.
   (J)   Emergency action.
      (1)   If circumstances exist so that noncompliance with this chapter
poses an immediate danger to the public health, safety and welfare, as
determined by the city, the city may take emergency preventative action.
      (2)   The city shall also take every reasonable action possible to
contact and direct the applicant to take any necessary action. Any cost to the
city for emergency action may be recovered from the applicant’s financial
security.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.46 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city shall notify the permit holder of the failure of the permit’s
measures.
   (A)   Initial contact. The initial contact will be to the party or parties
listed on the application and/or the SWPPP as contacts. Except during an
emergency action, 48 hours after notification by the city or 72 hours after the
failure of erosion and sediment control measures, whichever is less, the city
at its discretion, may begin corrective work. This notification should be in
writing, but if it is verbal, a written notification should follow as quickly
as practical. If after making a good faith effort to notify the responsible
party or parties, the city has been unable to establish contact, the city may
proceed with corrective work. There are conditions when time is of the essence
in controlling erosion. During this condition, the city may take immediate
action, and then notify the applicant as soon as possible.
   (B)   Erosion off-site. If erosion breaches the perimeter of the site, the
applicant shall immediately develop a cleanup and restoration plan, obtain the
right-of-entry from the adjoining property owner, and implement the cleanup and
restoration plan within 48 hours of obtaining the adjoining property owner’s
permission. In no case, unless written approval is received from the city, may
more than seven calendar days go by without corrective action being taken. If
in the discretion of the city, the permit holder does not repair the damage
caused by the erosion, the city may do the remedial work required. When
restoration to wetlands and other resources are required, the applicant shall
be required to work with the appropriate agencies to ensure that the work is
done properly.
   (C)   Erosion into streets, wetlands or waterbodies. If eroded soils
(including tracked soils from construction activities) enter or appear likely
to enter streets, wetlands or other waterbodies, cleanup and repair shall be
immediate. The applicant shall provide all traffic control and flagging
required to protect the traveling public during the cleanup operations.
   (D)   Failure to do corrective work. When an applicant fails to conform to
any provision of this policy within the time stipulated, the city may take the
following actions:
      (1)   Issue a stop work order, withhold the scheduling of inspections
and/or withhold the issuance of a certificate of occupancy;
      (2)   Revoke any permit issued by the city to the applicant for the site
in question or any other of the applicant’s sites within the city’s
jurisdiction; and/or
      (3)   Correct the deficiency or hire a contractor to correct the
deficiency.
         (a)   The applicant will be required to reimburse the city for all
costs incurred in correcting stormwater pollution control deficiencies. If
payment is not made within 30 days after costs are incurred by the city,
payment will be made from the applicant’s financial securities as described in
§
158.45 of this code.
         (b)   If there is an insufficient financial amount in the applicant’s
financial securities as described in §
158.45 of this code, the city may assess the remaining amount against the
property. As a condition of the permit, the owner shall waive notice of any
assessment hearing to be conducted by the city, concur that the benefit to the
property exceeds the amount of the proposed assessment and waive all rights by
virtue of M.S. § 429.081, as it may be amended from time to time, to challenge
the amount or validity of assessment.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017) Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with, or violating
any of the regulations in this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and be subject to a fine or imprisonment or both. All land use and building
permits may be suspended until the applicant has corrected the violation. Each
day that a separate violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with or violating
any of the regulation of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and be subject to a fine or imprisonment or both. Each day that a separate
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-21-2017)
CHAPTER 159: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
159.001   Statutory authorization
   
159.002   Findings of fact
   
159.003   Statement of purpose
   
159.004   Scope of application
   
159.005   Establishment of official zoning map
   
159.006   Regulatory flood protection elevation
   
159.007   Interpretation
   
159.008   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
159.009   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
159.010   Definitions
   
159.011   Nonconforming uses
   
159.012   Manufactured homes, mobile homes, travel trailers and the like
prohibited
   
159.013   Annexations
   
159.014   Amendments
   
159.015   Districts established
   
159.016   Compliance
Floodway District (FW)
   
159.030   Permitted uses
   
159.031   Standards for floodway permitted uses
   
159.032   Conditional uses
   
159.033   Standards for floodway conditional uses
Flood Fringe District (FF)
   
159.045   Permitted uses
   
159.046   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses
   
159.047   Conditional uses
   
159.048   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses
   
159.049   Standards for all flood fringe uses
General Floodplain District
   
159.060   Permitted uses
   
159.061   Floodway and flood fringe determinations
Subdividing Property
   
159.075   Land suitability review criteria
   
159.076   Floodway/flood fringe determinations
   
159.077   Removal of special flood hazard area designation
Public Services
   
159.090   Public utilities
   
159.091   Public transportation facilities
   
159.092   On-site sewage treatment and water supply systems
Administration
   
159.105   Zoning Administrator
   
159.106   Permits, certification requirements and record keeping
   
159.107   Appeals and variances/duties of the Board of Adjustment
   
159.108   Conditional uses; standards and elevation procedures
 
   
159.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 159.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in M.S. Ch. 103F and 462, as they may be
amended from time to time, delegated the responsibility to local government
units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the
City Council does ordain as follows.
(Prior Code, § 12-901)
§ 159.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood hazard areas. The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to
periodic inundation which results in potential loss of life, loss of property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures or flood protection and relief and impairment
of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and
general welfare.
   (B)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This chapter is based upon a
reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards which is consistent with the
standards established by the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   National flood insurance program compliance. This chapter is adopted
to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance
Program codified as 44 C.F.R. parts 59 through 78, as amended, so as to
maintain the community’s eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Prior Code, § 12-902)
§ 159.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
159.002 of this code by provisions contained herein.
(Prior Code, § 12-903)
§ 159.004 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city
shown on the official zoning map and/or the attachments thereto as being
located within the boundaries of the Floodway, Flood Fringe or General
Floodplain Districts.
(Prior Code, § 12-904)
§ 159.005 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The official zoning map together with all materials attached thereto is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
attached material shall include the Flood Insurance Study, Washington County,
Minnesota and Incorporated Areas and Flood Insurance Rate Map Panels therein
numbered 27163C0354E, 27163C0355E, 27163C0358E, 27163C0361E, 27163C0362E,
27163C0365E, 27163C0366E, 27163C0367E, 27163C0368E, 27163C0369E, 27163C0430E,
27163C0431E and 27163C0432E, all dated February 3, 2010; as updated by the
Letter of Map Revision, Case No. 21-05-4359P, including the attached map, with
an effective date of November 18, 2021; all prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The official zoning map shall be on file in the office of
the City Administrator and the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 12-905) (Ord. 09-2021, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 159.006 REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   The regulatory flood protection elevation shall be an elevation no lower
than one foot above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in
flood elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
(Prior Code, § 12-906)
§ 159.007 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   (B)   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by scaling
distances on the official zoning map. Where interpretation is needed as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the district as shown on the official
zoning map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions and there is a formal appeal of the
decision of the Zoning Administrator, the Board of Adjustment shall make the
necessary interpretation. All decisions will be based on elevations on the
regional (100-year) flood profile, the ground elevations that existed on the
site at the time the community adopted its initial floodplain ordinance or on
the date of the first National Flood Insurance Program map showing the area
within the 100-year floodplain if earlier and other available technical data.
Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Board of Adjustment and to
submit technical evidence.
(Prior Code, § 12-907)
§ 159.008 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All
other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Prior Code, § 12-908)
§ 159.009 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not imply that areas outside the Floodplain Districts or
land uses permitted within the districts will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 12-909)
§ 159.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A subordinate building or structure which is
located on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and
subordinate to, the principal use or structure.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or Building Codes and upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist; and
      (2)   The structure and/or land use conform to the comprehensive land use
plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FLOW LINE. General direction the flow of the flood water.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway. FLOOD
FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood Insurance
Study for Washington County, Minnesota and Incorporated Areas.
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOOD PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term “recreational vehicle.”
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse or regulatory floodplain which may impede, retard
or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching
or collecting debris carried by the water.
   PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. The main use of land or main structure erected
on the land for an activity which is an allowable use in the zoning district in
which the land is located.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or human-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a REACH.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a duty truck, and is
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use. For the purposes of
this chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall be synonymous with the term
TRAVEL TRAILER/TRAVEL VEHICLE.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD used
in a flood insurance study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation no lower than one foot
above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation
caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a
floodway.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins and other similar items.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Within any consecutive 365-day period, any reconstruction,
rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair), repair after damage,
addition or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures that have
incurred substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of an historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
historic structure. For the purpose of this chapter, HISTORIC STRUCTURE shall
be as defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1.
   VARIANCE. A modification of a specific permitted development standard
required in an official control including this chapter to allow an alternative
development standard not stated as acceptable in the official control, but only
as applied to a particular property for the purpose of alleviating a practical
difficulty as defined and elaborated upon in a community’s respective planning
and zoning enabling legislation.
(Prior Code, § 12-911) (Ord. 02-2014, passed 5-20-2014)
§ 159.011 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   No use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in a way
that increases its nonconformity.
      (2)   Any structural alteration or addition to a nonconforming structure
or nonconforming use which would result in increasing the flood damage
potential of that structure or use shall be protected to the regulatory flood
protection elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or flood
proofing techniques allowable in the state’s Building Code, except as further
restricted in divisions (A)(3) and (A)(6) below.
      (3)   The cost of all structural alterations or additions to any
nonconforming structure over the life of the structure shall not exceed 50% of
the market value of the structure unless the conditions of this section are
satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and additions must include
all costs such as construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all
manpower or labor. If the cost of all previous and proposed alterations and
additions exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure, then the structure
must meet the standards of §§
159.030 through
159.033 and §§
159.045 through
159.049 of this code for new structures depending upon whether the structure is
in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively.
      (4)   If any nonconforming use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months,
any future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The
Assessor shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses that have been discontinued for a period of 12 months.
      (5)   If any nonconforming use or structure is substantially damaged, as
defined in §
159.010 of this code, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new
uses or new structures in §§
159.030 through
159.033, §§
159.045 through
159.049 and §§
159.060 and
159.061 of this code will apply depending upon whether the use or structure is
in the Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Floodplain District, respectively.
      (6)   If a substantial improvement occurs, as defined in §
159.010 of this code, from any combination of a building addition to the
outside dimensions of the existing building or a rehabilitation,
reconstruction, alteration or other improvement to the inside dimensions of an
existing nonconforming building, then the building addition and the existing
nonconforming building must meet the requirements of §§
159.030 through
159.033 and §§
159.045 through
159.049 of this code for new structures, depending upon whether the structure
is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively.
   (B)   Historic structures, as defined in §
159.010 of this code, shall be subject to the provisions of divisions (A)(3)
and (A)(6) above.
(Prior Code, § 12-912) (Ord. 09-2021, passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.012 MANUFACTURED HOMES, MOBILE HOMES, TRAVEL TRAILERS AND THE LIKE
PROHIBITED.
   Manufactured homes, manufactured home parks, mobile homes, mobile home
parks, travel trailers and travel vehicles and travel trailer and travel
vehicle parks and campgrounds shall not be permitted in any floodplain within
the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-913) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.013 ANNEXATIONS.
   The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by reference into §
159.005 of this code may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the
corporate boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this chapter. If
any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after the date of
adoption of this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands shall be subject
to the provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of annexation into
the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-915)
§ 159.014 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The floodplain designation on the official zoning map shall not be
removed from floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in
error or that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the
regulatory flood protection elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the
floodplain. Special exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the
Commissioner of Natural Resources if he or she determines that, through other
measures, lands are adequately protected for the intended use.
   (B)   All amendments to this chapter, including amendments to the official
zoning map, must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of Natural
Resources prior to adoption. Changes in the official zoning map must meet the
Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) technical conditions and criteria
and must receive prior FEMA approval before adoption. The Commissioner of
Natural Resources must be given ten days’ written notice of all hearings to
consider an amendment to this chapter and the notice shall include a draft of
the ordinance amendment or technical study under consideration.
(Prior Code, § 12-916)
§ 159.015 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Floodway District. The Floodway District shall include:
      (1)   Those areas designated as floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
adopted in §
159.005 of this code; and
      (2)   Those areas designated as Zone AE on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
adopted in §
159.005 of this code that lie below the ordinary high water level of the St.
Croix River as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subdivision 14, as it may be amended
from time to time, except as further modified in this section.
   (B)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District shall include:
      (1)   Those areas that are designated as Zone AE on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map adopted in §
159.005 of this code that lie outside of a delineated floodway; and
      (2)   Those areas designated as Zone AE on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
as adopted in §
159.005 of this code that lie above the ordinary high water level of the St.
Croix River as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subdivision 14, as it may be amended
from time to time, and that lie below the 100-year flood elevation, except as
further modified in this section.
   (C)   General Floodplain District. The General Floodplain District shall
include those areas on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
159.005 of this code shown as Zone A, Zone AE without a delineated floodway and
Zone AE areas that are adjacent to the mouth of Valley Branch Creek generally
defined as downstream of St. Croix Trail South to the point where the channel
of Valley Branch Creek enters the main channel of the St. Croix River.
(Prior Code, § 12-917)
§ 159.016 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no structure
shall be constructed, located, extended, converted or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (B)   Within the Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts,
all uses not listed as permitted uses or conditional uses in §§
159.030 through
159.033, §§
159.045 through
159.049 and §§
159.060 and
159.061 that follow, respectively, shall be prohibited. In addition, a caution
is provided here that:
      (1)   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and certain
travel trailers and travel vehicles are not permitted in any floodplain within
the city;
      (2)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal
maintenance and repair or repair after damage to existing nonconforming
structures and nonconforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the
general provisions of this chapter and specifically §
159.011 of this code; and
      (3)   As-built elevations for elevated or flood proofed structures must
be certified by ground surveys and flood proofing techniques must be designed
and certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as specified
in the general provisions of this chapter and specifically as stated in §§
159.105 through
159.108 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-918) Penalty, see §
159.999
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Ch. 150
FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW)
§ 159.030 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming and wild crop harvesting;
   (B)   Industrial-commercial loading areas and parking areas;
   (C)   Private and public golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges,
archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks,
wildlife and nature preserves, fish hatcheries, hunting and fishing areas and
single or multiple purpose recreational trails; and
   (D)   Residential lawns, gardens, parking areas and play areas.
(Prior Code, § 12-1001) (Ord. 05-2015, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 159.031 STANDARDS FOR FLOODWAY PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The use shall have a low flood damage potential.
   (B)   The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district if one
exists.
   (C)   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations
and shall not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or storage of
materials or equipment.
(Prior Code, § 12-1002)
§ 159.032 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Structures accessory to the uses listed in §
159.030 of this code and the uses listed in divisions (B) through (G) below;
   (B)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel and other materials;
   (C)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves and water control
structures;
   (D)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and pipelines;
   (E)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery or materials;
   (F)   Placement of fill or construction of fences; and
   (G)   Structural works for flood control such as levees, dikes and
floodwalls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures and levees or dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural
crops for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency
flood event.
(Prior Code, § 12-1003)
§ 159.033 STANDARDS FOR FLOODWAY CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   All uses. No structure (temporary or permanent), fill (including fill
for roads and levees), deposit, obstruction, storage of materials or equipment
or other uses may be allowed as a conditional use that will cause any increase
in the stage of the 100-year or regional flood or cause an increase in flood
damages in the reach or reaches affected.
   (B)   Conditional uses. All floodway conditional uses shall be subject to
the procedures and standards contained in §
159.108 of this code. The conditional use shall be permissible in the
underlying zoning district if one exists.
   (C)   Fill.
      (1)   Fill, dredge spoil and all other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain shall be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, riprap or other acceptable method.
      (2)   Dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel operations shall not be
allowed in the floodway unless a long-term site development plan is submitted
which includes an erosion and/or sedimentation prevention element to the plan.
      (3)   As an alternative, and consistent with division (B) above, dredge
spoil disposal and sand and gravel operations may allow temporary, on-site
storage of fill or other materials which would have caused an increase to the
stage of the 100-year or regional flood but only after the governing body has
received an appropriate plan which assures the removal of the materials from
the floodway based upon the flood warning time available. The conditional use
permit must be title registered with the property in the office of the County
Recorder.
   (D)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be designed for human habitation.
      (2)   Accessory structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and placed
on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of
floodwaters.
         (a)   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow.
         (b)   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed approximately
on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally dry
flood proofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 flood proofing
classifications in the state’s Building Code. As an alternative, an accessory
structure may be flood proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 flood proofing
classification in the state’s Building Code provided the accessory structure
constitutes a minimal investment, does not exceed 500 square feet in size at
its largest projection, and for a detached garage, the detached garage must be
used solely for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All flood proofed
accessory structures must meet the following additional standards.
         (a)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed to equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
         (b)   Any mechanical and utility equipment in a structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
flood proofed.
         (c)   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two “automatic” openings in the outside walls of the
structure having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. There must be openings on at
least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings must be no
higher than one foot above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using
human intervention to open a garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy
this requirement for automatic openings.
   (E)   Storage of materials and equipment.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if readily
removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning and in
accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
   (F)   Structural works for flood control. Structural works for flood control
that will change the course, current or cross-section of protected wetlands or
public waters shall be subject to the provisions of M.S. Ch. 103G, as it may be
amended from time to time. Community-wide structural works for flood control
intended to remove areas from the regulatory floodplain shall not be allowed in
the floodway.
   (G)   Levees, dikes, floodwalls. A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in
the floodway shall not cause an increase to the 100-year or regional flood and
the technical analysis must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both
sides of a stream.
(Prior Code, § 12-1004) Penalty, see §
159.999
FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF)
§ 159.045 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or structures listed as permitted
uses in the underlying zoning use district(s). If no pre-existing, underlying
zoning use districts exist, then any residential or nonresidential structure or
use of a structure or land shall be a permitted use in the Flood Fringe
District provided the use does not constitute a public nuisance. All permitted
uses shall comply with the standards for Flood Fringe District’s permitted uses
listed in §
159.046 and the standards for all flood fringe uses listed in §
159.049 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-1005)
§ 159.046 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD FRINGE PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor including basement floor is at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures shall be no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend in all directions at an
elevation at least 15 feet beyond the outside limits of the structure erected
thereon.
   (B)   As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures that
constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed 500 square feet at its
largest projection may be internally flood proofed in accordance with §
159.033 of this code.
   (C)   The cumulative placement of fill where at any one time in excess of
1,000 cubic yards of fill is located on the parcel shall be allowable only as a
conditional use, unless the fill is specifically intended to elevate a
structure in accordance with §
159.046 of this code.
   (D)   The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on fill to
the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (E)   The provisions of §
159.049 of this code shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 12-1006)
§ 159.047 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any structure that is not elevated on fill or flood proofed in accordance
with §
159.046(A) and (B) of this code and or any use of land that does not comply
with the standards in §
159.046(C) and (D) of this code shall only be allowable as a conditional use.
An application for a conditional use shall be subject to the standards and
criteria and evaluation procedures specified in §§
159.048,
159.049 and
159.108 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-1007)
§ 159.048 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD FRINGE CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may be
utilized to elevate a structure’s lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of stilts,
pilings, parallel walls and the like, or above-grade, enclosed areas such as
crawl spaces or tuck under garages. The base or floor of an enclosed area shall
be considered above-grade and not a structure’s basement or lowest floor if the
enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of the structure, it is
designed to internally flood and is constructed with flood-resistant materials
and it is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage. The
above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject to the following
additional standards.
      (1)   Design and certification. The structure’s design and as-built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
as being in compliance with the general design standards of the state’s
Building Code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be at
or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or be designed to prevent
flood water from entering or accumulating within these components during times
of flooding.
      (2)   Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Above-grade,
fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally flood and the design plans must stipulate:
         (a)   A minimum area of openings in the walls where internal flooding
is to be used as a flood proofing technique. There shall be a minimum of two
openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings
shall be no higher than one-foot above grade. The automatic openings shall have
a minimum net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding unless a registered professional engineer or
architect certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The automatic
openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other coverings or
devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters
without any form of human intervention; and
         (b)   That the enclosed area will be designed of flood-resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the state’s
Building Code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
   (B)   Basements, as defined by §
159.010 of this code, shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   Residential basement construction shall not be allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (2)   Nonresidential basements may be allowed below the regulatory flood
protection elevation provided the basement is structurally dry flood proofed in
accordance with division (C) below.
   (C)   All areas of nonresidential structures including basements to be
placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be flood proofed
in accordance with the structurally dry flood proofing classifications in the
state’s Building Code. Structurally dry flood proofing must meet the FP-1 or
FP-2 flood proofing classification in the state’s Building Code and this shall
require making the structure watertight with the walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of
buoyancy. Structures flood proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification shall not
be permitted.
   (D)   When at any one time more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other
similar material is located on a parcel for the activities as on-site storage,
landscaping, sand and gravel operations, landfills, roads, dredge spoil
disposal or construction of flood control works, an erosion/sedimentation
control plan must be submitted unless the community is enforcing a state
approved shoreland management ordinance. In the absence of a state approved
shoreland ordinance, the plan must clearly specify methods to be used to
stabilize the fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the 100-year or
regional flood event. The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the governing
body. The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal of the
material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
   (E)   Storage of materials and equipment shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if readily
removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning and in
accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
   (F)   The provisions of §
159.049 of this code shall also apply.
(Prior Code, § 12-1008) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.049 STANDARDS FOR ALL FLOOD FRINGE USES.
   (A)   New principal structures. All new principal structures must have
vehicular access at or above an elevation not more than two feet below the
regulatory flood protection elevation. If a variance to this requirement is
granted, the Board of Adjustment must specify limitations on the period of use
or occupancy of the structure for times of flooding and only after determining
that adequate flood warning time and local flood emergency response procedures
exist.
   (B)   Commercial uses. Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad tracks
and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. However, a permit for the facilities to be used by the
employees or the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood
warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth and velocity so that when multiplying the depth (in feet)
times velocity (in feet per second) the product number exceeds four upon
occurrence of the regional flood.
   (C)   Manufacturing and industrial uses. Measures shall be taken to minimize
interference with normal plant operations especially along streams having
protracted flood durations. Certain accessory land uses such as yards and
parking lots may be at lower elevations subject to requirements set out in
division (B) above. In considering permit applications, due consideration shall
be given to needs of an industry whose business requires that it be located in
floodplain areas.
   (D)   Fill. Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be
properly protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable
method. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria
for removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
   (E)   Floodplain developments. Floodplain developments shall not adversely
affect the hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any
tributary watercourse or drainage system where a floodway or other encroachment
limit has not been specified on the official zoning map.
(Prior Code, § 12-1009)
GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT
§ 159.060 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The uses listed in §
159.030 of this code shall be permitted uses.
   (B)   All other uses shall be subject to the floodway/flood fringe
evaluation criteria pursuant to §
159.061 of this code. Sections 159.030 through 159.033 of this code shall apply
if the proposed use is in the Floodway District and §§
159.045 through
159.049 of this code shall apply if the proposed use is in the Flood Fringe
District.
(Prior Code, § 12-1010)
§ 159.061 FLOODWAY AND FLOOD FRINGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit or other approval within
the General Floodplain District, the applicant shall be required to furnish the
following information, as is deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator, for
the determination of the regulatory flood protection elevation and whether the
proposed use is within the Floodway or Flood Fringe District.
      (1)   A typical valley cross-section(s) showing the channel of the
stream, elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-
sectional areas to be occupied by the proposed development, and high water
information.
      (2)   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the ground,
pertinent structure, fill or storage elevations, the size, location and spatial
arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site and the
location and elevations of streets.
      (3)   Photographs showing existing land uses, vegetation upstream and
downstream and soil types.
      (4)   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow line
of the stream for at least 500 feet in either direction from the proposed
development.
   (B)   The applicant shall be responsible to submit one copy of the above
information to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance in determining whether the proposed use is in the Floodway
or Flood Fringe District and to determine the regulatory flood protection
elevation. Procedures consistent with Minn. Rules parts 6120.5000 through
6120.6200 and 44 C.F.R. part 65 shall be followed in this expert evaluation.
The designated engineer or expert is strongly encouraged to discuss the
proposed technical evaluation methodology with the respective Department of
Natural Resources’ Area Hydrologist prior to commencing the analysis. The
designated engineer or expert shall:
      (1)   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional flood;
      (2)   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood based
upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas; and
      (3)   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the regional
flood without increasing flood stages more than one-half foot. A stage increase
less than one-half feet shall be required if, as a result of the additional
stage increase, increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of
encroachment on both sides of the stream within the reach shall be assumed in
computing floodway boundaries.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall present the technical evaluation and
findings of the designated engineer or expert to the governing body. The
governing body must formally accept the technical evaluation and the
recommended Floodway and/or Flood Fringe District boundary or deny the permit
application. The governing body, prior to official action, may submit the
application and all supporting data and analyses to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, the Department of Natural Resources or the Planning
Commission for review and comment. Once the Floodway and Flood Fringe District
Boundaries have been determined, the governing body shall refer the matter back
to the Zoning Administrator who shall process the permit application consistent
with the applicable provisions of §§
159.030 through
159.033, §§
159.045 through
159.049 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-1011)
SUBDIVIDING PROPERTY
§ 159.075 LAND SUITABILITY REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable for the reason of
flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment facilities. All
lots within the Floodplain Districts shall be able to contain a building site
outside of the Floodway District at or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation.
   (B)   All subdivisions shall have water and sewage treatment facilities that
comply with the provisions of this chapter and have road access both to the
subdivision and to the individual building sites no lower than two feet below
the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (C)   For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the Floodway and Flood Fringe
District boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the required
elevation of all access roads shall be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
(Prior Code, § 12-1012)
§ 159.076 FLOODWAY/FLOOD FRINGE DETERMINATIONS.
   In the General Floodplain District, applicants shall provide the information
required in §
159.061 of this code to determine the 100-year flood elevation, the Floodway
and Flood Fringe District boundaries and the regulatory flood protection
elevation for the subdivision site.
(Prior Code, § 12-1013)
§ 159.077 REMOVAL OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established
criteria for removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain
structures properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation.
   (B)   FEMA’s requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side
slope protection standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These
standards should be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if
a change of special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
(Prior Code, § 12-1014)
PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 159.090 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   All public utilities and facilities such as gas, electrical, sewer and water
supply systems to be located in the floodplain shall be flood proofed in
accordance with the state’s Building Code or elevated to above the regulatory
flood protection elevation.
(Prior Code, § 12-1015)
§ 159.091 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Railroad tracks, roads and bridges to be located within the floodplain
shall comply with §§
159.030 through
159.033, §§
159.045 through
159.049 of this code.
   (B)   Elevation to the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be
provided where failure or interruption of these transportation facilities would
result in danger to the public health or safety or where these facilities are
essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or auxiliary roads or
railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where failure or interruption
of transportation services would not endanger the public health or safety.
(Prior Code, § 12-1016)
§ 159.092 ON-SITE SEWAGE TREATMENT AND WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
   Where public utilities are not provided:
   (A)   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwaters into the systems; and
   (B)   (1)   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into floodwaters and they shall not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding.
      (2)   Any sewage treatment system designed in accordance with the current
statewide standards for on-site sewage treatment systems shall be determined to
be in compliance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 12-1017)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 159.105 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   A Zoning Administrator or other official designated by the governing body
shall administer and enforce this chapter. If the Zoning Administrator finds a
violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall
notify the person responsible for a violation.
(Prior Code, § 12-1018) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.106 PERMITS, CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS AND RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter shall be secured prior to the
erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance
and repair) or alteration of any building, structure or portion thereof; prior
to the use or change of use of a building, structure or land; prior to the
construction of a dam, fence or on-site septic system; prior to the change or
extension of a nonconforming use; prior to the repair of a structure that has
been damaged by flood, fire, tornado or any other source; and prior to the
placement of fill, excavation of materials or the storage of materials or
equipment within the floodplain.
   (B)   Application for permit. Application for a permit shall be made in
duplicate to the Zoning Administrator on forms furnished by the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following where applicable: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill or storage of
materials; and the location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
   (C)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a permit or processing an
application for a conditional use permit or variance, the Zoning Administrator
shall determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary state and federal
permits.
   (D)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered or nonconforming
use. It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises or part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed,
converted, altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of
zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning Administrator stating
that the use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (E)   Construction and use to be as provided on applications, plans,
permits, variances and certificates of zoning compliance. Permits, conditional
use permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
approved plans and applications authorize only the use, arrangement and
construction set forth in approved plans and applications, and no other use,
arrangement or construction. Any use, arrangement or construction at variance
with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   Certification. The applicant shall be required to submit certification
by a registered professional engineer, registered architect or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Flood proofing measures shall
be certified by a registered professional engineer or registered architect.
   (G)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator shall
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplain. The Zoning Administrator shall also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures or alterations and additions to structures are
flood proofed.
   (H)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. The Zoning Administrator
shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the Commissioner
of the Department of Natural Resources prior to the community authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has applied for a
permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to M.S. Ch. 103G, as it
may be amended from time to time, this shall suffice as adequate notice to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources. A copy of the notification shall also be
submitted to the Chicago Regional Office of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA).
   (I)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease the
100-year flood elevation. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six
months after the date the supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes
by submitting a copy of the technical or scientific data.
(Prior Code, § 12-1019) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.107 APPEALS AND VARIANCES/DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct of
business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on boards by state law.
   (B)   Administrative review. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision
or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Variances. The Board of Adjustment may authorize, upon appeal in
specific cases, the relief or variance from the terms of this chapter as will
not be contrary to the public interest and only for practical difficulties or
circumstances unique to the property under consideration, as provided for in
the respective enabling legislation for planning and zoning for cities or
counties as appropriate. In the granting of the variance, the Board of
Adjustment shall clearly identify in writing the specific conditions that
existed consistent with the criteria specified in this chapter, any other
zoning regulations in the community, and in the respective enabling legislation
that justified the granting of the variance. No variance shall have the effect
of allowing in any district uses prohibited in that district, permit a lower
degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood protection elevation for
the particular area, or permit standards lower than those required by state
law. The following additional variance criteria of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency must be satisfied.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued by a community within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued by a community upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in practical difficulties for the applicant, as defined and elaborated upon in
a community’s respective planning and zoning enabling legislation; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
   (E)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Board of Adjustment of an appeal from a
decision of the Zoning Administrator, or an application for a variance, the
Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing and give due
notice to the parties in interest as specified by law. The Board of Adjustment
shall submit by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the
application for proposed variances sufficiently in advance so that the
Commissioner will receive at least ten days’ notice of the hearing.
   (F)   Decisions. The Board of Adjustment shall arrive at a decision on the
appeal or variance within 60 days. In passing upon an appeal, the Board of
Adjustment may, so long as the action is in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Administrator or other
public official. It shall make its decision in writing setting forth the
findings of fact and the reasons for its decisions. In granting a variance the
Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards such as
those specified in §
159.108, which are in conformity with the purposes of this chapter. Violations
of these conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation. A copy of all decisions
granting variances shall be forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural
Resources within ten days of action.
   (G)   Appeals. Appeals from any decision of the Board of Adjustment may be
made, and as specified in this community’s official controls and also by state
statutes.
   (H)   Flood insurance notice and record keeping. The Zoning Administrator
shall notify the applicant for a variance that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Construction below the 100-year or regional flood level increases
risks to life and property. The notification shall be maintained with a record
of all variance actions. A community shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report variances
issued in its annual or biennial report submitted to the Administrator of the
National Flood Insurance Program.
(Prior Code, § 12-1020) (Ord. 02-2014, passed 5-20-2014) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.108 CONDITIONAL USES; STANDARDS AND ELEVATION PROCEDURES.
   The City Council shall hear and decide applications for conditional uses
permissible under this chapter. Applications shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator who shall forward the application to the Planning Commission for
consideration.
   (A)   Hearings. Upon filing with the city an application for a conditional
use permit, the Zoning Administrator shall submit by mail to the Commissioner
of Natural Resources a copy of the application for proposed conditional use
sufficiently in advance so that the Commissioner will receive at least ten
days’ notice of the hearing.
   (B)   Decisions. The City Council shall arrive at a decision on a
conditional use within 60 days after the public hearing. In granting a
conditional use permit the City Council shall prescribe appropriate conditions
and safeguards, in addition to those specified in division (C)(6) below, which
are in conformity with the purposes of this chapter. Violations of these
conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the
conditional use permit is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
A copy of all decisions granting conditional use permits shall be forwarded by
mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of this action.
   (C)   Procedures to be followed by the City Council in passing on
conditional use permit applications within all Floodplain Districts.
      (1)   Require the applicant to furnish the following information and
additional information as deemed necessary by the City Council for determining
the suitability of the particular site for the proposed use:
         (a)   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, flood proofing measures and the relationship of the above
to the location of the stream channel; and
         (b)   Specifications for building construction and materials, flood
proofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
      (2)   Transmit one copy of the information described in division (C)(1)
above to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for technical
assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed project in relation to
flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of flood damage to the use, the
adequacy of the plans for protection and other technical matters.
      (3)   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer or
expert, the City Council shall determine the specific flood hazard at the site
and evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in relation to the flood
hazard.
      (4)   In passing upon conditional use applications, the City Council
shall consider all relevant factors specified in other sections of this
chapter, and:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments;
         (b)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others or they may block bridges, culverts or other
hydraulic structures;
         (c)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability
of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
         (d)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
         (e)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (f)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
         (g)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use;
         (h)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
         (i)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and floodplain management program for the area;
         (j)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (k)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
         (l)   The other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
chapter.
      (5)   The City Council shall act on an application in the manner
described above within 60 days from receiving the application, except that
where additional information is required pursuant to division (C)(1) above. The
City Council shall render a written decision within 60 days from the receipt of
additional information.
      (6)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purpose of
this chapter, the City Council shall attach the conditions to the granting of
conditional use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this
chapter. The conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities;
         (b)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy and operation;
         (c)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed
restrictions;
         (d)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees and other protective measures; and
         (e)   Flood proofing measures, in accordance with the state’s Building
Code and this chapter. The applicant shall submit a plan or document certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect that the flood proofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and
associated flood factors for the particular area.
(Prior Code, § 12-1021) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking other
lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. These
actions may include but are not limited to:
      (1)   In responding to a suspected violation, the Zoning Administrator
and local government may utilize the full array of enforcement actions
available to it including but not limited to prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits orders for corrective measures or a request
to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls and to correct violations to the extent
possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      (2)   When a violation is either discovered by or brought to the
attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources’ and Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office along with
the community’s plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the community. If the construction or development is
already completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either:
         (a)   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
         (b)   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
      (4)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall
be prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also upon the lapse
of the specified response period notify the landowner to restore the land to
the condition which existed prior to the violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-914)
CHAPTER 160: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
160.001   Purpose of chapter
   
160.002   Basis of need
   
160.003   Basic procedures
   
160.004   Purpose
   
160.005   Scope
   
160.006   Definitions
   
160.007   Protection of natural features
   
160.008   Solar access planning
   
160.009   Public sites and open spaces
   
160.010   Minor subdivision
   
160.011   Simple subdivision
   
160.012   Land division
   
160.013   Registered land surveys
   
160.014   Metes and bounds
   
160.015   Unapproved subdivisions
   
160.016   Variances
   
160.017   Security interest
   
160.018   Building permits
   
160.019   Park and open space dedication
   
160.020   Conflicting provisions
Platting Procedure
   
160.035   Sketch plan
   
160.036   Preparing and submitting the preliminary plat
   
160.037   Data required for preliminary plat
   
160.038   Review of the preliminary plat
   
160.039   Preparing and submitting the final plat
   
160.040   Data required for final plat
   
160.041   Review of the final plat
Minimum Design Standards
   
160.055   Comprehensive development plan
   
160.056   Land requirements
   
160.057   Street plan
   
160.058   Cul-de-sac streets
   
160.059   Street design
   
160.060   Private streets
   
160.061   Alley design
   
160.062   Drainage
   
160.063   Easements
   
160.064   Street names
   
160.065   Block design
   
160.066   Lot requirements
Engineering Standards
   
160.080   Streets
   
160.081   Utilities
   
160.082   Sanitation, sewer and water rural areas
   
160.083   Stormwater drainage
Supplemental Regulations
   
160.100   Improvements
   
160.101   Protective covenants required for all major subdivisions
   
160.102   Lower St. Croix River shoreland management
   
160.103   Open space preservation using shared driveways
 
   
160.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision requirements for shoreland management, see §
156.090
   Floodplain regulations, see §
159.001
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 160.001 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   The City of Afton is in Washington County, on the eastern edge of the St.
Paul-Minneapolis area. The southwestern portion of the city is largely
agricultural and the remainder is largely rural residential. In its
comprehensive development plan the city’s goals are stated as retention of the
rural and residential nature of the city and preservation of the natural
environment. To these ends ordinances have been passed which encourage low
density housing, the continued farming of productive agricultural land and the
avoidance of any developments which might necessitate central sewer and water
systems and other urban services. Like its other ordinances, the city’s
subdivision regulations reflect the city’s goals and serve as means for
achieving them.
(Prior Code, § 12-1251)
§ 160.002 BASIS OF NEED.
   (A)   In the past land has been bought and sold using metes and bounds
descriptions, but now with smaller parcels being bought and sold the practice
of describing them by metes and bounds is no longer practical.
   (B)   Many metes and bounds descriptions, past and present, written by
unqualified people do not properly describe conveyance of land. Overlaps and
gaps have been created by these poor descriptions and can only be corrected by
the courts. Descriptions based on a good boundary survey can be checked,
therefore the record plat is a highly desirable instrument. The underlying
description of the property to be platted can be adjusted or corrected, based
on a boundary survey. The recorded plat then becomes a legal document denoting
lots and blocks as the subdivision of the described tract of land. Clean,
simple and accurate conveyances can then be made and described as lot, block-
plat name.
   (C)   The present platting system was established to provide a simple system
for keeping records of the division and ownership of land. State statutes give
the registered land surveyor exclusive rights to prepare plats. The statutes
also set minimum standards that the surveyor must meet, and regulate the plat
itself, as to information required, size, number and kind. The reader is
referred to M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be amended from time to time, and the
standard procedures for platting in the county.
(Prior Code, § 12-1252)
§ 160.003 BASIC PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Prior to the preparation of a plat, the subdividers or owners shall
meet with local officials, with the planning staff and City Engineer in order
to be made fully aware of all applicable ordinances, regulations and plans in
the area to be subdivided. At this time, the subdivider should submit a general
sketch plan of the proposed subdivision to the Planning Commission and the
relevant subcommittees. The sketch plan can be presented in the form as to show
that consideration has been given to the neighboring subdivisions, adjacent
land and to the topography of the site. The subdivider is urged to avail
himself of the advice and assistance of the City Administrator, planning
consultant and other advisors in order to save time and effort and facilitate
the approval of the plat.
   (B)   Upon agreement in concept of the sketch plan by the Planning
Commission, the subdivider may prepare a preliminary plat for the area to be
subdivided.
   (C)   The preliminary plat is a very detailed drawing showing the proposed
development and necessary information. It contains more details than is
required on the sketch plan and serves as the basis for the public hearing. It
also serves as the master plan for a development where subdividing a piece of
land is carried out step-by-step, by a series of plats, where the first plat
which is approved and recorded may be only part of the total plan and may later
be followed by other plats, all in conformity with the overall plan.
   (D)   After the preliminary plat is approved, the subdivider will have his
or her surveyor prepare a final plat covering all or part of the land to be
subdivided. The final plat is a legal document designed primarily to record in
the county offices the exact boundaries and location of parcels of land. Before
the city will approve the plat, it will usually require the subdivider to agree
to do certain things, such as pave streets. The city will make sure that all
matters are agreed to by the subdivider, and are covered as necessary by
written contract, and by bond, before the plat is approved.
(Prior Code, § 12-1253) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
§ 160.004 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The process of dividing raw land into home sites, or separate parcels
for other uses, is one of the most important factors in the growth of any
community. Few activities have a more lasting effect upon its appearance and
environment. Once the land has been subdivided into lots and the streets, homes
and other structures have been constructed, the basic character of this
permanent addition to the community has become firmly established. It is then
virtually impossible to alter its basic character without substantial expense.
In most subdivisions, roads and streets must be maintained in order that
various public services may be provided.
   (B)   The welfare of the entire community is thereby affected in many
important respects. It is, therefore, to the interest of the general public,
the developer and the future owners that subdivisions be conceived, designed
and developed in accordance with sound rules and proper standards.
   (C)   All subdivisions of land hereafter submitted for approval shall fully
comply, in all respects, with the regulations set forth herein. It is the
purpose of these regulations to:
      (1)   Encourage well planned, efficient and attractive subdivisions by
establishing adequate standards for design and construction;
      (2)   Provide for the health and safety of residents by requiring
properly designed streets and adequate sewage and water service;
      (3)   Place the cost of improvements against those benefitting from their
construction;
      (4)   Secure the rights of the public with respect to public lands and
waters; and
      (5)   Set the minimum requirements necessary to protect the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 12-1254)
§ 160.005 SCOPE.
   (A)   The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivision of land
contained herein shall apply within the city and other land as permitted by
state statutes. Upon overlapping jurisdiction within the prescribed area, the
extent of jurisdiction shall be determined and agreed upon between the city and
the other municipality or municipalities concerned.
   (B)   Except in the case of resubdivision, this chapter shall not apply to
any lot or lots forming a part of a subdivision recorded in the office of the
County Recorder prior to the 1972 effective date of the county’s first
subdivision ordinance, nor is it intended by this chapter to repeal, annul or
in any way impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or
ordinances except those specifically repealed by, or in conflict with this
chapter, or with private restrictions placed upon property by deed, covenant or
other private agreement, or with restrictive covenants governing the land.
Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the land than is imposed
or required by existing provisions of law, ordinance, contract or deed, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 12-1255)
§ 160.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Any dedicated public right-of-way providing a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Written consent for subdivision shall be required from the
legal owner of the property before the sketch plan is submitted.
   ARTERIAL, MINOR. A road intended to move through and from adjacent
subregions and activity centers with subregions.
   BLOCK. The enclosed area within the perimeter of roads, property lines or
boundaries of the subdivision. Boulevard means the portion of the street right-
of-way between the curb line and the property line.
   BUILDING. Includes STRUCTURE. A BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes any part
thereof.
   BUTT LOT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner lots.
   CITY ATTORNEY. The attorney employed by the city.
   CITY ENGINEER. The registered engineer employed by the city.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision development planned and constructed so as
to group housing units into relatively tight patterns while providing a unified
network of open space and wooded areas, and meeting overall density regulations
of this chapter and Ch. 153 of this code. CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS are not
permitted under this chapter.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from minor streets to
thoroughfares or from thoroughfare to thoroughfare. It includes the principal
entrance streets of a residential development and for circulation within a
development.
   COMMUNITY. The City of Afton.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A Comprehensive Plan prepared by the city
including a compilation of policy statements, goals, standards and maps
indicating the general locations recommended for the various functions and
classes of land use, places and structures, and for the general physical
development of the city and includes any unit of part of the plan or parts
thereof.
   CONTOUR MAP. A map which irregularities of land surface are shown by lines
connecting points of equal elevations. Contour interval is the vertical height
between contour lines.
   COPY. A print or reproduction made from a tracing.
   COUNTY. Washington County, Minnesota.
   COUNTY BOARD. The county’s Board of Commissioners.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street or portion of a street with one vehicular entrance/
outlet leading directly to a through street, and having one turnaround at a
single termination.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Written consent for subdivision shall be required of the legal
owner of the land.
   DEVELOPMENT. The act of subdividing land, installing site improvements and/
or building structures.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. The contract between the subdivider and the city
which requires the subdivider to furnish and construct at his or her sole cost
any streets or other improvements according to approved plans and
specifications, and to comply with all conditions of the plat approval. The
city shall require the DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT to be recorded.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS. Lots which have a front line abutting on one street
and a back or rear line abutting on another street.
   DRAINAGE COURSE. A watercourse or indenture for the drainage of surface
water.
   EASEMENT. A grant by an owner of land for a specific use by persons other
than the owner.
   ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the city to guarantee the subdivider’s
contractual obligations to the city. The ESCROW funds may be deposited by the
City Administrator into regular city accounts but shall be accounted for
separately for the purposes specified in the development agreement.
   FINAL PLAT. The map or plan or record of a subdivision and any accompanying
material as described in these regulations. The legal document which must be
recorded and must conform to all state laws.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council.
   GRADE. The slope of a road, street or other public way, specified in
percentage (%) terms.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A sewage treatment system or part
thereof, serving a dwelling or other establishment, consisting of one or more
septic tanks and a soil treatment system.
   LOCAL ROAD OR STREET. A road intended to provide access to other roads from
individual properties.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the interior
angle of the intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions,
including but not limited to subdivisions of four or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the local government
facilities, or the creation of any public improvements. MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS must
be platted in accordance with this chapter.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET (SERVICE ROAD). A minor street parallel to and
adjacent to high volume arterial streets and highways, which provide access to
abutting properties and protection of through traffic.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A method of describing land by measure of length (metes)
of the boundary lines (bounds). Most common method is to recite direction and
length of each line as one would walk around the perimeter. In general, the
METES AND BOUNDS can be recited by reference to record, natural or artificial
monuments at the corners; and record, natural or cultural boundary lines.
   MINIMUM SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS. The guides, principles and
specifications for the preparation of subdivision plans indicating among other
things, the minimum and maximum dimensions of the various elements set forth in
the plan.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing not more than three lots
fronting on an existing street, not involving any new street or road, or the
extension of municipal facilities, or the creation of any public improvements,
and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property,
and not in conflict with any provisions or portion of the master plan, official
map, Ch. 153 of this code or these regulations.
   NATURAL WATERWAY. A natural passageway in the surface of the earth so
situated and having a topographical nature that allows surface water to flow
through it from other areas before reaching a final ponding area. The term also
includes all drainage structures that have been constructed or placed for the
purpose of conducting water from one place to another.
   NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial. This subdivision shall comply
with the applicable provisions of these regulations.
   OUTLOT.
      (1)   A lot remnant or any parcel of land included in a plat, which may
be used as open space.
      (2)   The OUTLOT may be a large tract that could be subdivided in the
future or may be too small to comply with the minimum size requirements of
zoning and subdivision ordinances or otherwise unsuitable for development and
therefore not usable as a building site.
   OWNER. An individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under these regulations.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public right-of-way across or within a block, to be used
by pedestrians.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate or partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity. Includes a corporation, a
partnership and an incorporated association of PERSONS such as a club.
   PLANNER. The planner employed by the community unless otherwise stated.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The city’s Planning Commission.
   PLAT. A map or drawing which graphically delineates the boundary of land
parcels for the purpose of identification and record of title. The PLAT is a
recorded legal document and must conform to all state laws.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the City Council for approval. PRELIMINARY PLAT shall contain data
required as outlined in §
160.037 of this code.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts entered into between private parties and
constituting a restriction on the use of all private property within a
subdivision for the benefit of the property owners and to provide mutual
protection against undesirable aspects of development which would tend to
impair stability of values.
   RESERVE STRIPS. A narrow strip of land placed between lot lines and streets
to control access.
   RE-SUBDIVISION. A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision
plat if the change affects any street layout on a map or area reserved thereon
for public use, or any lot line, or if it affects any map or plan legally
recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The land covered by a public road or land dedicated for public
use or for certain private use such as land over which a power line passes.
   ROAD, DEAD-END. A road or a portion of a street with only one vehicular-
traffic outlet.
   RURAL DESIGN STREET. A street utilizing road side ditches, swales or other
methods to handle stormwater runoff. The construction of this type of road
shall be chosen based on the area to be developed, existing and proposed
topography, drainage considerations, traffic projections and other features at
the recommendation of the City Engineer.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SIMPLE SUBDIVISION. See §
160.011 of this code.
   SKETCH PLAN. A sketch preparatory to the application for a plat or a minor
lot subdivision to enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching
general agreement with the city as to the form of the plat and the objectives
of these regulations. The plan must comply with the Comprehensive Plan and
these regulations.
   STREET. A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, land, place, drive,
court or otherwise designated.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right-
of-way of a street.
   SUBDIVIDER. The owner, agent or person having control of land as the term is
used in this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN/MONUMENT. A permanent structure identifying
the existence of a subdivision, usually placed at an entrance/exit to the
subdivision. These SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGNS are prohibited.
   SURVEY, LAND. The process of determining boundaries and areas of tracts of
land by a registered surveyor. The term cadastral survey is sometimes used to
designate a LAND SURVEY, but in this country its use should be restricted to
the surveys of public lands of the United States; also called PROPERTY SURVEY,
BOUNDARY SURVEY.
   SURVEYOR. A land surveyor registered under state laws.
   THOROUGHFARE. A street primarily designated to carry large volumes of
traffic and provide for vehicular movement between and among large areas;
usually designated as a trunk highway or county road.
   URBAN DESIGN STREET. A street which has concrete curb and gutter to direct
stormwater runoff to a storm sewer conveyance system. The construction of this
type of road shall be chosen based on the area to be developed, existing
topography, drainage considerations, traffic projects and other features at the
recommendation of the City Engineer.
   USED or OCCUPIED. As applied to any land or building shall be construed to
include the definition “intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied.”
   VICINITY MAP. A map drawn to comparatively small scale which definitely
shows the area proposed to be platted in relation to known geographical
features, i.e., town centers, lakes, roads.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. A zoning ordinance or resolution controlling the use of
land as adopted by the City Council being Ch. 153 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-1256) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 01-2020, passed
1-21-2020)
Cross-reference:
   Cul-de-sac streets, see §
160.058
§ 160.007 PROTECTION OF NATURAL FEATURES.
   (A)   The City Council reserves the right to decline approval of a
subdivision if due regard is not shown for the preservation of all natural
features such as large trees, watercourses, scenic points, historical spots and
similar city assets which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and stability
to the proposed development of the property.
   (B)   Subdivision review shall be coordinated with the requirements and
procedures for environmental assessment and impact statements contained in Ch.
153 of this code. Any mandatory environmental assessment worksheet or impact
statement as required by the state’s Environmental Quality Board regulations
shall be submitted as part of the application for preliminary plat approval.
(Prior Code, § 12-1257)
§ 160.008 SOLAR ACCESS PLANNING.
   All new subdivisions should be designed to accommodate extensive use of
passive and active solar energy systems with special attention given to street,
lot and building orientation.
(Prior Code, § 12-1258)
§ 160.009 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Public sites to be reserved. Where a proposed drainageway, park,
playground, school site or other public site, as shown on the comprehensive
development plan is embraced in part or in whole by the boundary of a proposed
subdivision and the public sites are not dedicated, the sites shall be reserved
and no action taken towards approval of a plan or plat for a period not to
exceed 90 days to allow the proper governmental agency the opportunity to
consider and take actions towards acquisition of the public ground or park by
purchase or other methods.
   (B)   Scenic easements. Scenic easements shall be required on slopes of 18%
and greater, wetlands, drainageways and other lands and soils judged to be
fragile by the soil conservation service, with the exception of driveways over
human-made slopes that were created by the construction of roads or related
ditches, and that extend only perpendicular to the road for a horizontal
distance of 30 feet or less.
   (C)   Park fees. A park fee shall be paid by the builder of each dwelling
unit as provided in §
160.019 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-1259) (Ord. 11-2016, passed 10-18-2016) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.010 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   In the case of a subdivision resulting in three or fewer parcels, each
having the required frontage on an improved public road, the City Council may,
upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, exempt the subdivider from
platting; however, each newly created parcel shall meet all requirements of
Ch. 153 of this code.
   (B)   In the case of a request to subdivide a lot which is part of a
recorded plat, or where the subdivision is to permit the adding of a parcel of
land to an abutting lot, and the newly created property lines will not cause
any resulting lot to be in violation of these regulations or
Ch. 153 of this code, the division may be approved by the City Council after
review by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Submission of a certified survey by a registered land surveyor showing
the original lot and the proposed subdivision shall be required. The survey
shall show topographic data at ten-foot contour intervals, driveway access
points, drainage plans, soil tests for the installation of an on-site septic
system, verification of two and one-half acres of buildable land and proposed
location of dwelling unit and names and addresses of all property owners within
500 feet of the proposed subdivision.
   (D)   The City Council reserves the right to require the dedication of
utility easements, scenic easements and right-of-way for existing streets or
roads prior to approval of the minor subdivision.
   (E)   Any parcel created by a minor subdivision shall not be eligible for
further minor subdivision without platting.
   (F)   The division of land where all resulting parcels exceed 20 acres and
500 feet in width shall not constitute subdivision under this chapter. Parcels
exempt from subdivision approval are still subject to all other zoning and
building requirements.
   (G)   Before an administrative permit is issued on any lot resulting from a
minor subdivision, the applicant shall include on the site plan the proposed
route for the underground utility lines for electricity, telephone, cable and
gas where available, and shall submit with the application a certification from
each utility company involved that the lines can safely be placed along the
proposed route.
   (H)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing,
affording an opportunity for all parties interested to be heard, and shall give
not less than ten days’ nor more than 30 days’ notice of the time and place of
the hearing, published in the designated legal newspaper for the city. The
notice shall also contain a description of the land and any requested
variances. The notice should specify that any variances identified during the
minor subdivision process will be considered at the hearing. At least ten days
before the hearing, the City Administrator shall mail an identical notice to
the owner and to each of the property owners of record for property within 500
feet of the outside boundaries of the land in question.
(Prior Code, § 12-1260) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 14-2004, passed
10-19-2004) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.011 SIMPLE SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Definition. A SIMPLE SUBDIVISION is the resubdivision and transfer of
property for the purpose of combining it with an adjoining property which does
not result in a new buildable lot. The transfer must occur between two parcels
which meet all the requirements of
Ch. 153 of this code without the need for a variance before and after the
SIMPLE SUBDIVISION. The creation or alteration of a private easement shall be
considered a SIMPLE SUBDIVISION.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   No less than 14 days before the next City Council meeting, the
applicant shall complete an application on the city form.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide a title opinion or registered property
abstract as proof of ownership. The city may request the City Attorney to
determine parties with interest in the properties.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide a survey by a registered land surveyor
of the lots or tracts to be subdivided. The survey shall, at the discretion of
the Zoning Administrator, show the location of all proposed lot lines, existing
lot lines, existing and proposed structures within 50 feet of any lot line,
road rights-of-way and any additional information as found necessary.
      (4)   The applicant shall pay a fee, that shall be established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council, plus any out-of-pocket costs
incurred by the city for review of the application.
   (C)   Council action. Following review by the city staff, the Zoning
Administrator shall cause the application to be placed upon the agenda of the
City Council for the next regular meeting. The Zoning Administrator shall
transmit to the City Council all the materials related to the application, with
a staff recommendation.
   (D)   Prohibition. No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be
issued for the construction of a structure on lots or tracts in violation of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 12-1261) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.012 LAND DIVISION.
   (A)   (1)   In any case where the division of land into two or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building improvement is not
specifically provided for in the provision of these regulations, a description
of the land division shall be filed with the City Administrator.
      (2)   No building permit shall be issued for any construction,
enlargement, alteration or repair, demolition or moving of any building or
structure on any lot or parcel resulting from the division, until the division
has been approved by the City Council. Prior to the consideration of the
division by the City Council, they shall require that a certified survey be
submitted.
   (B)   In cases where adjoining contiguous property owners wish to exchange
or otherwise divide land with the intent of enlarging one of the parcels and as
a result of the division neither parcel will be more nonconforming in
accordance with
Ch. 153 of this code, approval must be obtained from the City Council upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission after review of the minor lot
subdivision application.
   (C)   Some of the requirements for minor subdivision approval may be waived.
However, the newly acquired land must be combined on the deed for recording
purposes as the remainder of the owner’s property.
   (D)   The applicant of a subdivision containing not more than three lots
requiring the construction of a public road thus defined as a major
subdivision, may request preliminary and final plat at the same time. The risk
of additional costs that may occur due to required changes of a plat already
prepared for final plat are borne by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 12-1262) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 14-2004, passed
10-19-2004; Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-21-2009) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.013 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS.
   All registered land surveys shall be filed subject to the same procedure as
required for the filing of a plat for platting purposes. The standards and
requirements set forth in these regulations shall apply to all registered land
surveys.
(Prior Code, § 12-1263)
§ 160.014 METES AND BOUNDS.
   (A)   Conveyance by metes and bounds shall only be permitted upon minor
subdivision approval, or for parcels at least 20 acres in area and not less
than 500 feet in width.
   (B)   When a conveyance is made by metes and bounds, no building permit
shall be issued until a survey is submitted and the parcel is recorded with the
County Recorder’s office. A survey is not required for parcels in excess of 20
acres.
(Prior Code, § 12-1264) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.015 UNAPPROVED SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   No conveyance of land to which these regulations are applicable shall
be filed or recorded, if the land is described in the conveyance by metes and
bounds or by reference to an unapproved registered land survey made after April
21, 1961, or to an unapproved plat. The foregoing provision does not apply to a
conveyance if the land described:
      (1)   Was a separate parcel of record April 1, 1945, or the date of
adoption of subdivision regulations under Laws of Minnesota 1945, chapter 287,
whichever is the later, or of the adoption of subdivision regulations pursuant
to a home rule charter;
      (2)   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered into prior
to the time;
      (3)   Was a separate parcel not less than two and one-half acres in area
and 150 feet in width on January 1, 1966;
      (4)   Was a separate parcel of not less than five acres in area and 300
feet in width on July 1, 1980;
      (5)   Is a single parcel of commercial or industrial land of not less
than five acres and having a width of not less than 300 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is less than five acres in area or 300 feet in width; or
      (6)   Is a single parcel of residential or agricultural land of not less
than 20 acres and having a width of not less than 500 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in width.
   (B)   In any case in which compliance with the foregoing restrictions will
create an unnecessary hardship and failure to comply does not interfere with
the purpose of the subdivision regulations, the platting authority may waive
compliance.
(Prior Code, § 12-1265) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.016 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The City Council may grant a variance in any particular case where the
subdivider can show that by reason of the unfavorable topography or other
physical conditions the strict compliance to these regulations could cause
practical difficulties. Practical difficulties as used in connection with the
granting of a variance includes a three-factor test, all three of which must be
met in order for a variance to be granted.
      (1)   Reasonableness. The property owner proposes to use the property in
a reasonable manner not permitted by the zoning ordinance.
      (2)   Uniqueness. The plight of the landowners is due to circumstances
unique to the property not created by the landowner.
      (3)   Essential character. The variance, if granted, will not alter the
essential character of the locality.
   (B)   Economic considerations alone shall not constitute a practical
difficulty if reasonable use for the property exists under the terms of this
chapter.
   (C)   Applications for any variance shall be made in writing by the
subdivider at the time when the plat is filed for consideration. The
application shall state fully all facts relied upon by the subdivider, and
shall be supplemented with maps, plans or other additional data which may aid
the Planning Commission and the City Council in the analysis of the proposed
project. The variances shall be considered at the next regular meeting held by
the Planning Commission. The plans for the development shall include any
covenants, restrictions or other legal provisions necessary to guarantee the
full achievement of the proposed plat. Any variance or modifications thus
granted shall be recorded and entered in the minutes setting forth the reasons
for granting the variance.
(Prior Code, § 12-1266) (Ord. 02-2014, passed 5-20-2014)
§ 160.017 SECURITY INTEREST.
   Creation of a security interest in a portion of a parcel less than the
entire parcel does not entitle the property to subdivision even upon
foreclosure of the security interest, unless otherwise approved by the City
Council and the parcel is in conformance with this chapter and
Ch. 153 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-1267)
§ 160.018 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for any construction, enlargement,
alteration or repair, demolition or moving of any building or structure on any
lot or parcel until all the requirements of this chapter have been fully met.
(Prior Code, § 12-1268) Penalty, see §
160.999
Cross-reference:
   Building permits, inspections and fees, see §
150.04
§ 160.019 PARK AND OPEN SPACE DEDICATION.
   (A)   Purpose. The City Council recognizes that it is essential to the
health, safety and the welfare of the residents of this city to provide for the
preservation of land for parks, playgrounds, public open space and trails. The
City Council also finds that it is appropriate that each subdivision within the
city contribute toward the city’s parks, playgrounds, open spaces and trails in
proportion to the burden it will place upon the city’s park and open space
system. Therefore, this park and open space dedication requirement is
established to require new developments at the time of subdivision to
contribute toward the city’s park and open space system in rough proportion to
the relative burden they will place upon that system, and:
      (1)   To develop a limited number of major public green spaces which
shall retain the natural and scenic features of the land and serve as a
wilderness environment for city residents to enjoy;
      (2)   To create multiple use, non-motorized trails along roads or as a
link between various points of interest and public facilities where the trails
would enhance the recreational opportunities for residents and provide a safe
alternative means of travel within the city; and
      (3)   If future development creates a need for a neighborhood park, land
may be acquired for that purpose pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Requirements. Subdividers, as a prerequisite to approval of a
subdivision, shall dedicate to the city for park or playground purposes or for
public open space or trail systems a reasonable portion of the land being
subdivided or in lieu thereof a cash equivalent. The form of dedication, land
or cash, (or any combination) shall be decided by the city and dedicated or
paid prior to city signing the final plat, or prior to final City Council
approval of minor subdivisions.
      (1)   Reasonable portion of land shall be that portion of land which
could be purchased with the amount of park dedication fee payment owed by the
subject subdivision on a per dwelling unit basis.
      (2)   Land to be dedicated shall be reasonably adaptable to use for
active park and recreation purposes, shall be at a location convenient to the
people to be served, and shall be consistent with the general locations as
indicated in the official parks map and/or comprehensive parks plan. Factors
used in evaluating the adequacy of proposed park and recreation areas shall
include size, shape, topography, geology, hydrology, tree cover, access and
location.
      (3)   Where a proposed park, playground, recreational area or open space
that has been indicated in the official park map and/or comprehensive park plan
is located in whole, or in part, within a proposed subdivision the site must be
dedicated to the city. If the subdivider chooses not to dedicate an area in
excess of the land required hereunder for the proposed public site, the city
shall not be required to act to approve or disapprove the preliminary plat of
the subdivision for a period of 60 days after the subdivider meets all the
provisions of the subdivision ordinance in order to permit the Council to
consider the proposed plat and to consider taking steps to acquire, through
purchase or condemnation, all or part of the public site proposed under the
official park map in the comprehensive parks plan.
      (4)   Land area conveyed or dedicated hereunder may not be included by a
subdivider as an allowance for purposes of calculating the density requirements
of the subdivision as set out in the city’s zoning ordinance and shall be in
addition to and not in lieu of scenic easement, conservation easements and open
space requirements pursuant to the city’s zoning ordinance.
      (5)   The city may determine that land not distinguished in its official
parks map and/or comprehensive parks plan is needed as a neighborhood park.
Should this determination be made, an amendment to the official parks map and/
or comprehensive parks plan shall be made identifying the neighborhood park.
Should the city determine that land in excess of what can be obtained via
division (B)(1) above is required, the remaining area shall be purchased from
the applicant by the city via its Park and Trail Fund at a fair market value.
      (6)   When a cash park dedication fee is paid in lieu of a dedication of
land, the subdivider shall pay a per dwelling unit fee as described in
divisions (C)(3) and (D) below.
      (7)   The city shall maintain a separate fund into which all cash park
dedication fees received from owners or subdividers in lieu of conveyance or
dedication of land for park or playground, public open space or trail purposes
shall be deposited and shall make, from time to time, appropriations from the
fund for acquisition of land for park and playground purposes, for developing
existing park and playground sites, for public open space and trails, or for
debt retirement in connection with land previously acquired for parks and
playgrounds, which will benefit the residents of the city.
   (C)   Administrative procedure. When an application for subdivision is
submitted, the City Administrator and City Planner shall evaluate its location
with that of the official parks map and the comprehensive parks plan to
determine whether land is to be recommended for dedication.
      (1)   Should the subject site be located within an area designated for
future parkland, open space or trail corridor, as designated in the official
parks map and comprehensive parks plan, the City Administrator and City Planner
shall submit the proposed subdivision to the Park Committee for its review and
recommendation.
      (2)   The Park Committee shall make a determination as to what portion or
portions of the site may be dedicated to the city for parkland, open space or
trail use as described in the official park map in the city’s comprehensive
park plan. The subdivider shall be made aware of this recommendation which will
be forwarded to the Planning Commission for its review and recommendation to
the City Council.
      (3)   Should the subject site be outside of any future proposed parkland,
open space, trail or wildlife corridors or wildlife habitat areas as defined in
the official park map and the comprehensive park plan, the City Administrator
shall inform the subdivider and the process will continue with the
recommendation for a cash park dedication fee in lieu of land dedication in a
per dwelling unit amount as defined in division (D) below.
      (4)   Though the subject site may not be located in an area identified
for future parkland, open space, trail or wildlife corridor or wildlife habitat
area in the official park map and comprehensive park plan, the Planning
Commission may recommend and the City Council may require that a reasonable
portion of the land be dedicated to the city, at which time the subdivision
will be sent to the Parks Committee for their review and recommendation as to
the sites location. Reasonable portion of the land shall be defined as that
portion of land in which could be purchased with the amount of park dedication
fee payment owed by the subject subdivision per dwelling unit being proposed.
   (D)   Cash park dedication fee. The cash park dedication fee in lieu of land
dedication shall be equivalent to 7.5% of the predevelopment value of the land
to be subdivided, subject to a minimum fee of $5,000 per dwelling unit and a
maximum fee of $10,000 per dwelling unit, the fee to be reviewed on an annual
basis, with adjustments based on the CPI-U and adopted with the city’s fee
schedule. The cash park dedication fee shall be calculated based on the impact
of new dwelling units and the demand they will place on the city’s park system.
   (E)   Payment of cash park dedication fees. Cash park dedication fees are to
be established at the time of preliminary plat approval or in the case of minor
subdivisions are to be established and paid prior to final Council approval.
The Council may approve payment at a later time under terms agreed upon in the
development agreement. Delayed payment may include interest at a rate set by
the city.
   (F)   Deposit of cash park dedication fees. Cash park dedication fees shall
be deposited by the city directly in the city’s restricted Park, Open Space and
Natural Resources Fund and shall be used only for purposes authorized by state
law. Cash payments may not be used for ongoing “operation or maintenance,” in
accordance with M.S. §§ 462.35 and 471.1941.351, as they may be amended from
time to time.
   (G)   Land dedication. When land is dedicated and deeded to the city for
park purposes, it shall be the responsibility of the city to maintain dedicated
property.
   (H)   Lot and block number required. Land dedication to the city shall be in
the form of lots with approved lot and block number.
   (I)   Right to challenge.
      (1)   If the applicant or developer does not believe that the estimates
contained in this section fairly and accurately represent the effect of the
subdivision on the park or trail system of the city, the applicant or developer
may request that the city prepare an in-depth study of the effect of the
subdivision on the park and trail system and an estimate of that effect in
money and/or land. All costs of the study shall be borne by the developer or
applicant.
      (2)   If the developer or applicant request the preparation of a study,
the request must be made at the time the development application is submitted.
      (3)   No application for development that is submitted shall be deemed
complete until the requested study has been completed and a determination is
made as to the appropriate amount of land or money necessary to offset the
effect of the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 12-1270) (Ord. 47-2004, passed 8-17-2004; Ord. 13-2005, passed
9-20-2005; Ord. 04-2012, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 160.020 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In the event of conflicting provisions in the text of this chapter or
between this chapter and other city ordinances, the more restrictive shall
apply.
(Prior Code, § 12-1271)
PLATTING PROCEDURE
§ 160.035 SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Written consent for subdivision from the legal owner of the property
to be subdivided is required before the sketch plan is submitted. In order to
ensure that applicants are informed of the procedural requirements and
standards of this chapter, the requirements or limitations imposed by city
ordinances and the Comprehensive Plan, applicants should meet with the planning
staff and prepare a sketch plan prior to preparing a preliminary plat.
Prospective subdividers shall deposit with the city funds to cover anticipated
costs in an amount determined by the City Administrator. The prospective
subdivider shall also furnish a list of property owners within 500 feet of the
property to be developed.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide 25 copies of the sketch plan plus at least
one 11 by 17-inch reduction of same no less than 21 days before the meeting of
the Planning Commission at which the sketch plan will be considered. The
Administrator shall refer the sketch plan to the following parties for review:
the City Attorney; the City Planner; the City Engineer; the MN/DOT District
Engineer and/or County Highway Engineer; the county’s Soil and Water
Conservation District; the Watershed District or WMO; the natural gas, electric
and cable communications utilities; the Fire District and the School District.
The sketch plan shall be drawn to scale and contain as a minimum the following
information:
      (1)   Tract boundaries and dimensions;
      (2)   Significant topographic and physical features;
      (3)   Proposed general street and lot layout recognizing all applicable
ordinance requirements of the city and indicating a minimum of two and one-half
contiguous buildable acres per lot;
      (4)   General location of proposed public and private open space areas;
      (5)   General drainage plan, including proposed ponding areas, ditches
and culverts;
      (6)   Location of proposed septic drainfield and culverts which shall be
located on a slope 13% or less; and
      (7)   Building pad location.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the sketch plan, the City Administrator shall refer:
      (1)   The sketch plan for subdivision first to the Natural Resources and
Groundwater Commission. Upon review by the Natural Resources and Groundwater
Commission, the subdivision sketch plan, with its recommendations, will be sent
on to Parks, Recreation and Open Spaces Commission. The Natural Resources and
Groundwater Commission shall also send its recommendations to the City Council.
The Parks, Recreation and Open Spaces Commission will review the subdivision
sketch plan and send its recommendations to the Planning Commission. The Park,
Recreation and Open Spaces Commission shall also send its recommendations to
the City Council; and
      (2)   Upon receipt of the sketch plan and after review by the
Commissions, reviewing authorities and designated consultants, the City
Administrator will place the sketch plan upon the agenda of the Planning
Commission. The sketch plan will be considered as the basis for discussion
between the subdivider and the Planning Commission. Submission of the sketch
plan shall not constitute formal filing of a Preliminary Plat. The Planning
Commission will, on the basis of the sketch plan, advise the subdivider of the
extent to which the proposed subdivision conforms to these regulations and the
zoning ordinance and will discuss possible modifications.
   (D)   Agreement in concept with the sketch plan does not constitute approval
of the subdivision. Acceptance of the sketch plan indicates to the subdivider
that he or she may proceed toward fulfilling the necessary steps for approval
of the plat in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   A sketch plan and preliminary plat are required where land has the
potential to be developed in stages.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing,
affording an opportunity for all parties interested to be heard, and shall give
not less than ten-days’ nor more than 30 days’ notice of the time and place of
the hearing, published in the designated legal newspaper for the city. The
notice shall also contain a description of the land and any requested
variances. This notice should specify that any variances identified during the
sketch plan process will be considered at the hearing. At least ten days before
the hearing, the City Administrator shall mail an identical notice to the owner
and to each of the property owners of record for property within 500 feet of
the outside boundaries of the land in question.
(Prior Code, § 12-1326) (Ord. 1997-22, passed 6-15-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Preparing and submitting the final plat, see §
160.039
§ 160.036 PREPARING AND SUBMITTING THE PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   When the subdivider feels he or she is ready to prepare the
preliminary plat, he or she shall have his or her surveyor and/or planner draw
one which is in conformity with the requirements of this chapter. See §
160.037 of this code.
   (B)   The subdivider shall fill out an application for consideration of
planning request or other applicable forms as may be required and shall pay the
fee and make a deposit equal to anticipated expenses to be incurred by the city
in review of the preliminary plat. The City Administrator shall place the
application of the subdivider on the agenda of all applicable committees and
the Planning Commission, and shall set the date for the public hearing.
   (C)   The subdivider shall furnish the City Administrator with 25 copies of
the preliminary plat and one 11 by 17-inch reduction of the plat; shall furnish
the office of the County Surveyor with seven copies, at least 21 days before
the scheduled Planning Commission meeting at which the preliminary plat will be
considered.
   (D)   The subdivider shall furnish copies to the appropriate Watershed and
Water Management Districts.
   (E)   If the owner and developer are not the same, the consent of the owner
shall be filed and the fee owner shall also sign the application.
   (F)   Fees for subdivision will be set by the resolution of the City Council
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 12-1327) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 1997-5, passed 3-
17-1998)
§ 160.037 DATA REQUIRED FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Identification and description.
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision, which name shall not duplicate or be
similar in pronunciation to the name of any plat already recorded in the
county;
      (2)   Legal description of property;
      (3)   Name and address of the record owner, any agent having control of
the land, including contract purchasers, subdivider, land surveyor, engineer
and designer of the plan;
      (4)   Map indicating graphic scale not less than one inch to 100 feet;
      (5)   North point and vicinity map of area showing well-known
geographical points for orientation within a one-half mile radius;
      (6)   List of adjoining property owners within 500 feet of the proposed
plat; and
      (7)   Date of preparation.
   (B)   Existing conditions.
      (1)   Boundary lines shall be shown clearly and to a degree of accuracy
no major changes are necessary in preparing the plat;
      (2)   Existing zoning classifications for land in and abutting the
subdivision;
      (3)   Approximate total acreage;
      (4)   Location, right-of-way width and names of existing or platted
streets or other public ways, parks and other public lands, permanent buildings
and structures, street, drainage and utility easements, section, corporate and
school district lines within the plan and to a minimum distance of 500 feet
beyond shall also be indicated;
      (5)   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, pipelines, power
lines, culverts, wells, septic systems or other underground facilities within
the preliminary plat area and to a distance of 100 feet beyond. Data as grades
and locations of catch basins, manholes, hydrants and street pavement width and
type shall also be shown;
      (6)   Boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land, within
100 feet, identified by name and ownership, but including all contiguous land
owned or controlled by the subdivider;
      (7)   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than two feet except where the horizontal contour interval is 100 feet or
more, a one-foot vertical interval shall be shown. Watercourses, marshes,
wooded areas, rock outcrops and other significant features shall also be shown.
The plat shall be superimposed on an aerial map so that it can be clearly
indicated how the plat relates to surrounding land. National Geodetic Vertical
Datum 1929 Adjustment shall be used for all topographic mapping;
      (8)   A copy of all proposed private restrictions shall be submitted;
      (9)   In areas where public sewer is not available, four soil borings on
each lot defining an area 100 feet by 100 feet suitable for an on-site septic
system shall be required. The results shall be submitted to the Building
Official. If it appears soil may not be suitable on any lot for the
installation of an on-site system, additional borings and percolation tests
will be required;
      (10)   Soil types and location of limits of each soil type as shown in
the soil survey of the county;
      (11)   Slopes in excess of 12% and slopes in excess of 18% shall be
delineated;
      (12)   If severe soil limitations for the intended use are noted in the
soil handbook on file in the county planning department and the county’s Soil
and Water Conservation District office, a plan or statement indicating the soil
conservation practice or practices to be used to overcome the limitation shall
be made part of the permit application;
      (13)   On all lakes, ponds and wetlands, all water surface elevations,
natural ordinary high elevation and present and proposed 100-year flood
elevations shall be denoted; and
      (14)   The City Administrator and designees shall be permitted to inspect
the land during review of the preliminary plat to ensure that there are no
adverse conditions or harmful conditions upon the land. If these conditions are
found, the City Administrator shall notify the proper authorities and approved
remedial action shall be taken as a condition of preliminary plat approval.
   (C)   Design features. Subdivision design features to be shown on
preliminary plat are:
      (1)   Layout of proposed streets, showing right-of-way widths and
proposed names of streets;
      (2)   Locations and width of proposed alleys, pedestrian ways and utility
easements;
      (3)   Lot and block numbers and preliminary dimensions of lots and blocks
and area of each lot;
      (4)   (a)   Location of house and detached accessory building on each
lot. Required front, side and rear building set back lines.
         (b)   Driveway access shall be indicated on the preliminary plat in
the graph that shows the size of each lot, contiguous buildable acres and the
like.
         (c)   Where any lot on the plat has the possibility of accessing a
driveway on more than one street, the interior street shall be the street on
which the driveway access is made, and a covenant shall be recorded on the
lots, at the time the plat is filed, restricting driveway access to the
interior street;
      (5)   Gradients of proposed street, plans and profiles showing locations
and typical cross-sections of street pavement including curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, drainage easements, servitude rights-of-way, manholes and catch
basins;
      (6)   Areas, other than street, alleys, pedestrian ways and utility
easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of each area in acres;
      (7)   (a)   Grading and drainage plan for entire subdivision. Details
must include proposed ponding areas, ditches, culverts or storm sewer.
         (b)   Drainage calculations are also required. Arrows indicating the
direction of the drainage shall be provided.
         (c)   If any fill or excavation is proposed in a wetland or lake,
approval must be obtained from the state’s Department of Natural Resources and
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers;
      (8)   Erosion and sediment control plan;
      (9)   Location of soil tests showing that two septic systems may be
installed on each lot in compliance with city specifications on slopes of 13%
or less;
      (10)   Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is being
proposed for the subdivision, the subdivider shall submit a sketch plan of the
remainder of the property showing the possible relationships between the
proposed subdivision and future subdivision. In any event, all subdivisions
must be shown to relate well with existing or potential adjacent subdivisions
and land use;
      (11)   Surface water drainage patterns and courses on the subdivided
property together with a statement or plan indicating the effect on the
patterns and courses that would result from the subdivision and development of
the property and the soil conservation practices and drainage control devices
to be used to overcome or prevent any drainage problems resulting to the
subject property or adjacent property from the subdivision; and
      (12)   Other information as may be requested by the City Engineer, city
planning staff, City Planning Commission or City Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-1328) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 1997-5, passed 3-
17-1998; Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-21-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Minimum design standards, see §§
160.055 through
160.066
§ 160.038 REVIEW OF THE PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The applicant shall provide 25 copies of the plat plus at least one 11
by 17-inch reduction of same no less than 21 days before the meeting of the
Planning Commission at which the plat will be considered. The City
Administrator shall refer the plat to the following parties for review: the
City Attorney; the City Planner; the City Engineer; the MN/DOT District
Engineer and/or County Highway Engineer; the county’s Soil and Water
Conservation District; the Watershed District or WMO; the natural gas, electric
and cable communications utilities; the Fire District and the School District.
   (B)   Any plat proposed in a Shoreland District or St. Croix River Bluffland
and Shoreland Management District must have approval of the state’s Department
of Natural Resources. If a Watershed District exists in the area of the
proposed platted property, approval must be obtained from the Watershed
District.
   (C)   A preliminary plat of all of a potential subdivision shall be required
even though that subdivision is to be developed in stages.
   (D)   The reviewing authorities, staff and consultants shall, within 14 days
of receipt of the preliminary plat, submit reports to the City Administrator
expressing their recommendation for approval, disapproval or revisions. If no
report is received within 14 days, it will be assumed by the Planning
Commission that there are no objections to the plat as submitted.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the preliminary plat and all other required
information are filed with the city and application fees and deposits are paid
to the city, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the
subdivision and the City Council shall act on the application. Notice of the
purpose, time and place of a public hearing shall be published in the official
newspaper at least ten days prior to the day of the hearing. Property owners
within 500 feet of the subdivision shall be notified of the public hearing.
   (F)   The Planning Commission may recommend, and the City Council may
require modifications, changes and revisions of the preliminary plat as it
deems necessary to protect the health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience and
general welfare of the city.
   (G)   The report of the Planning Commission shall be submitted to the
Council not later than seven days after the public hearing on the plan. If the
Planning Commission fails to make a report, the Council shall proceed without a
report. Failure to receive a report from the Planning Commission as herein
provided shall not invalidate the proceedings or actions of the Council.
   (H)   If the preliminary plat is not approved by the City Council, the
reasons for this action shall be recorded in the proceedings and transmitted to
the applicant. A subdivision preliminary plat request application shall be
preliminarily approved or disapproved within 60 days following delivery of an
application completed in compliance with this chapter by the applicant to the
city, unless an extension of the review period has been agreed to by the
applicant.
   (I)   Should the subdivider desire to amend the plat after preliminary
approval but before final approval he or she may submit an amended plat which
shall follow the same procedure as a new plat, except for the public hearing
and fee unless the amendment is, in the opinion of the City Council, of the
scope as to constitute a new plat. If so, the plat shall be refiled.
(Prior Code, § 12-1329) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 1997-5, passed 3-
17-1998; Ord. 1997-13, passed 9-22-1998)
§ 160.039 PREPARING AND SUBMITTING THE FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   After the approval of the preliminary plat, the final plat may be
prepared. The final plat shall incorporate any changes, modifications and/or
revisions required by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of a subdivision to be developed in stages, the
subdivider may be granted permission to prepare a final plat for only the
portion of the approved plat which he or she proposes to develop at this time,
provided the portion conforms with all the requirements of the city.
      (2)   The subdivider may be required, as a condition of approval, to
submit an estimated time schedule for further staging of the platting and
recording.
   (C)   All plats shall comply with the provisions of state statutes, the
standard procedures for platting in the county and the requirements of this
regulation.
   (D)   The subdivider shall submit the five copies of the final plat to the
City Administrator and County Surveyor’s office not later than 12 months after
the date of approval of the preliminary plat. The approval of the preliminary
plat will be considered void unless an extension is requested in writing by the
subdivider and granted by the City Council.
   (E)   The subdivider shall submit, with the final plat, an opinion of title
by the subdivider’s attorney.
(Prior Code, § 12-1330)
§ 160.040 DATA REQUIRED FOR FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor who is registered in the
state and shall comply with the provisions of state statutes, this chapter and
the manual of standard procedures for platting in the county.
(Prior Code, § 12-1331)
§ 160.041 REVIEW OF THE FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   After obtaining approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall
submit ten copies of the final plat along with plat checking fee to the County
Surveyor for review by the County Surveyor.
   (B)   Prior to approval of the final plat by the City Council, the
subdivider must have installed all required improvements or executed an
agreement with the city for their installation and posted financial guarantees
as required in §
160.100(A) of this code. Required improvements shall conform to approved
engineering standards and be in compliance with these regulations and all other
applicable city ordinances.
   (C)   Upon a request for final approval, the City Council shall certify
final approval within 60 days if the applicant has complied with all conditions
and requirements of applicable regulations and upon which preliminary approval
is expressly conditional either through performance or the execution of
appropriate agreements assuring performance. If the final plat is not approved,
the reasons for the action shall be recorded in the official proceedings and
transmitted to the subdivider.
   (D)   The final plat must be approved by the County Surveyor in accordance
with the standard procedures for platting in the county.
   (E)   Upon receiving final plat approval by the City Council, the subdivider
shall then record it with the County Recorder within 120 days or the approved
plat shall be considered void.
   (F)   Upon receiving approval of the final plat for a portion of the
approved plat, the subdivider shall not be required to request a continuation
of the recognition of the plat so as to avoid automatic expiration of
preliminary approval unless final plat approval is not obtained within 24
months following preliminary approval.
(Prior Code, § 12-1332)
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 160.055 COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the comprehensive development plan
and policies as adopted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1376)
§ 160.056 LAND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Land shall be suited to the purpose for which it is to be subdivided.
No plan shall be approved if the site is not suitable for purposes of the kind
proposed by reason of potential flooding, topography or adverse earth or rock
formations.
   (B)   Land which poses hazards to life, health or property shall not be
subdivided for residential purposes until all hazards have been eliminated or
unless adequate safeguards against the hazards are provided by the subdivision
plan.
   (C)   Erosion and sedimentation control plans in accordance with the
technical standards and specifications of the soil conservation service as
provided by the county’s Soil and Water Conservation District office, shall be
required on slopes with grades of 12% or steeper.
   (D)   Proposed subdivision shall be coordinated with existing nearby
municipalities or neighborhoods so that the community as a whole may develop
harmoniously.
(Prior Code, § 12-1377)
§ 160.057 STREET PLAN.
   (A)   Proposed streets shall conform to the state road and county highway
plans or preliminary plans as have been prepared, adopted and/or filed as
prescribed by law. All streets within a subdivision shall be dedicated to the
city and built to city standards.
   (B)   Streets shall be logically related to the topography in order to
produce usable lots and reasonable grades.
   (C)   Access shall be given to all lots and portions of the tract in the
subdivision, and to adjacent unsubdivided parcels unless the topography clearly
indicates that the connection is not feasible. Access shall be defined as
practical access. Reserved strips, and land-locked areas shall not be created.
   (D)   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provisions
for the appropriate continuation of the existing streets in adjoining areas.
   (E)   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, but may be subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in a new subdivision shall make provision for the proper
projection of streets into adjoining areas by extending the new streets to the
boundaries of the subdivision at appropriate locations. Streets must be
constructed to the boundary according to city specifications or it shall be
documented that it is feasible to build them to the boundary. Dedication of
road right-of-way shall be required to the boundary even though the street is
not constructed. It shall be the responsibility of the adjoining property
owner, when his or her land is subdivided, to build the road to city standards.
   (F)   Where the city does not have an adequate dedicated right-of-way for an
existing road adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the developer shall
dedicate the required right-of-way to the city for street and utility purposes.
   (G)   Minor streets shall be laid out to discourage their use by through
traffic. Thoroughfares shall be reserved for through traffic by providing
marginal access streets, interior streets for serving lots or other means.
   (H)   Half or partial streets will not be permitted, except where essential
to reasonable subdivision of a tract in conformance with the other requirements
and standards of these regulations and where, in addition, satisfactory
assurance for dedication of the remaining part of the street can be secured.
   (I)   Wherever a tract to be subdivided adjoins an existing half, or partial
street, the part of the street within the tract shall be platted to provide the
necessary road right-of-way.
   (J)   Dead-end streets shall be prohibited, except as stubs to permit future
street extension into adjoining tracts, or when designed as cul-de-sac streets.
A temporary turn-around or cul-de-sac shall be required by the city if a road
will be a dead end until an adjoining tract is developed.
   (K)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or planned major
thoroughfare or a railroad right-of-way, a street approximately parallel to
land on each side of the thoroughfare and right-of-way may be required for
adequate protection of residential properties and separation of through and
local traffic. The service streets shall be located at a distance from the
major thoroughfare of railroad right-of-way suitable for the appropriate use of
the intervening land, as for park purposes in Residential Districts, or for
commercial and industrial purposes in appropriate districts. The distances
shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach
grades and future grade separations.
   (L)   The street arrangements shall not cause hardship to owners of
adjoining property in platting their own land and providing convenient access
to it.
(Prior Code, § 12-1378) Penalty, see §
160.999
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 151
§ 160.058 CUL-DE-SAC STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may permit cul-de-sac streets, after Planning
Commission review, by reason of unfavorable land forms or the irregular shape
of the land from which the subdivision is being made and a normal street
pattern cannot be established.
      (2)   The City Council may also permit cul-de-sac streets to minimize the
impacts of the subdivision or proposed street on existing neighborhoods. These
impacts may include increased traffic volume or speed, privacy or security of
existing neighborhoods and preservation of natural resources or features.
   (B)   (1)   A cul-de-sac street shall not exceed 1,320 feet in length and
shall serve no more than nine lots. Every lot platted on a cul-de-sac street
shall have frontage and access on the cul-de-sac street and shall be included
in the nine lot limit.
      (2)   A variance may be granted on the length limitation only when it is
clearly demonstrated that the length greater than 1,320 feet is necessary for
reasons of unfavorable land topography. No variance shall be granted which
would allow more than nine lots to be created on a cul-de-sac street.
   (C)   When future development of adjacent parcels will allow for extension
of a temporary cul-de-sac street or conversion thereof to a through street, the
City Council may require that right-of-way shall be dedicated to the plat
boundary. No outlots shall be created.
(Prior Code, § 12-1379) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 151
§ 160.059 STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   Minimum widths.
      (1)   Minimum right-of-way widths and pavement widths (face-to-face of
curb) for each type of public street or road shall be as follows:
 
Type of Street       Right-of-way Width         Roadway Width Including
                                                Shoulders
Collector/commercial 5W                         44 feet
Cul-de-sac           60 feet minimum turnaround 45 feet turnaround radius
                     radius
Industrial           80 feet minimum            44 feet
                                                24-foot wide paved surface with
Local street (rural) 60 feet minimum            a four-foot wide aggregate
                                                shoulder
Local street (urban) 60 feet minimum            32 feet, measured from face of
                                                curb to face of curb
Minor arterial       120 feet minimum           As determined by traffic needs
 
      (2)   The determination of the type of street necessary to serve a
development shall be made by the City Council. The type of road to be
constructed, whether it be rural or urban, shall be based on the existing and
proposed topography, impact on adjoining properties, drainage consideration,
environmental concerns, traffic projections and other aspects of the
development.
      (3)   It is the city’s intent to provide a roadway that both meets sound
engineering principles and is consistent with the nature of the development to
be served. Review by the Planning Commission and City Council will include
findings of fact which detail the special considerations given to a particular
development.
   (B)   Dedication of additional width. Where a subdivision abuts or contains
an existing street of inadequate width, sufficient additional width shall be
dedicated to meet the above standards.
   (C)   Special conditions. Additional right-of-way and roadway widths may be
required to promote public safety and convenience when special conditions
require it or to provide parking space in areas of intensive use.
   (D)   Restriction of access. Access of local streets onto state, county
state-aid highways and county highways shall be discouraged at intervals of
less than 500 feet.
   (E)   Street jog. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet
shall not be allowed.
   (F)   Deflection. When connecting street lines deflect from each other at
any one point by more than ten degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with
a centerline radius of not less than 200 feet.
   (G)   Grades. Centerline gradients shall be at least 0.5% and grades shall
not exceed 8%.
   (H)   Vertical curves. The State Department of Transportation Road Design
Manual, § 2-45.07, shall govern vertical curves. The minimum length of a
vertical curve shall be 100 feet.
   (I)   Angle of intersection. The angle formed by any intersection of streets
shall be 90 degrees unless a different angle is approved by the City Engineer.
In no case shall the angle be less than 75 degrees.
   (J)   Size of intersection. Intersections of more than four corners shall be
prohibited.
   (K)   Corner radii. Roadways of street intersections shall be rounded by a
radius of not less than 25 feet. Roadways on alley-street intersections shall
be rounded by a radius of not less than six feet. Corners at the entrances of
the turnaround portions of the cul-de-sacs shall be rounded by a radius of not
less than 15 feet.
   (L)   Curb and gutter. Curb and gutter may be included as part of the
required street surface improvement and shall be designed for installation
along both sides of all roadways for urban design.
   (M)   Elevation of new streets. All new streets located in the floodplain
shall be elevated to no lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation.
(Prior Code, § 12-1380) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.060 PRIVATE STREETS.
   Private streets are not permitted.
(Prior Code, § 12-1381) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.061 ALLEY DESIGN.
   (A)   Either a public or private alley shall be provided in a block where
commercially zoned property abuts a major thoroughfare or a major street.
Alleys in residential areas other than those zoned for multiple-family use
shall not be permitted.
   (B)   All alley rights-of-way and pavement widths shall conform to the
following minimum standards:
 
Classification           Right-of-way Width Pavement
Industrial or commercial 24 feet            20 feet
Residential (one-way)    20 feet            6 feet
Residential (two-way)    20 feet            20 feet
 
   (C)   All centerline gradients shall be at least 0.5% and shall not exceed
8%.
(Prior Code, § 12-1382)
§ 160.062 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   A complete and adequate drainage system design shall be required for
the subdivision and may include a storm sewer system or a system of open
ditches, culverts, pipes, catch basins and ponding areas or both systems and
submitted to the City Engineer and the soil conservation for approval.
   (B)   The annual probability of increased rate of surface runoff due to new
construction shall not exceed 1%.
      (1)   Annual probability shall not exceed 1% means that a 100-year storm
of appropriate duration should be used for design but that storms of lesser
magnitude (e.g., two- or ten-year storms) should be examined as well.
      (2)   Surface runoff is the water leaving the property on or very near
the surface (e.g., including the gravel subgrade of a parking lot).
      (3)   Surface runoff rate is the peak discharge as calculated by the USDA
Soil Conservation Service (S.C.S.) T R 20 computer program for a storm of
critical duration.
(Prior Code, § 12-1383)
§ 160.063 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Provided for utilities. Easements of at least 20 feet wide, centered
on rear and other lot lines as required, shall be provided for utilities where
necessary as recommended by the City Engineer. Where underground utilities are
being installed, a ten-foot wide front or side yard easement may be required.
   (B)   Provided for drainage. Easements shall be provided along each side of
the centerline of any watercourse or drainage channel, whether or not shown on
the Comprehensive Plan, to a sufficient width to provide proper maintenance and
protection and to provide for stormwater runoff and installation and
maintenance of storm sewers.
   (C)   Dedication. Utility and drainage easements shall be dedicated for the
required use.
   (D)   Trails. Trail easements shall be provided as required by the City
Council in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (E)   Scenic easements. Scenic easements shall be required on slopes of 18%
and greater, wetlands, drainageways and other lands and soils judged to be
fragile by the soil conservation service, with the exception of driveways over
human-made slopes that were created by the construction of roads or related
ditches, and that extend only perpendicular to the road for a horizontal
distance of 30 feet or less. Scenic easements also shall be required on slopes
greater than 12% if the land is unbuildable or heavily wooded and would be
affected adversely by development. The easements shall be required as a
condition of subdivision approval, and shall prohibit the following activities:
Dumping, burning, grading, grazing of domesticated farm animals, vegetative
cutting in excess of prudent forestry practices as approved by the Forestry
Division of the state’s Department of Natural Resources, motorized vehicles,
construction of any structure including driveways. The scenic easements shall
be recorded against the affected lots in the subdivision.
      (1)   The city shall have the right to reasonable access to easement
areas to verify compliance with the restrictions, and to cross adjacent lands
in common ownership with the easement area to obtain access.
      (2)   A scenic easement prohibits the owner from engaging in harmful
activities in the area subject to the easement, but does not grant the general
public any right of access to the land.
(Prior Code, § 12-1384) (Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 1997-13, passed
9-22-1998) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.064 STREET NAMES.
   (A)   Names of new streets shall not duplicate existing or platted street
names unless a new street is a continuation of or in alignment with the
existing or platted street, if it shall bear the same name of the existing or
platted street so in alignment.
   (B)   Street names shall conform to the county uniform street naming and
property numbering system as applicable.
(Prior Code, § 12-1385)
§ 160.065 BLOCK DESIGN.
   (A)   Block length and width or acreage within bounding streets shall be
such as to accommodate the size of residential lots required in the area by
Ch. 153 of this code, and to provide for convenient access, circulation control
and safety of street traffic.
   (B)   In residential areas, other than water frontage, blocks shall not be
less than 600 feet nor more than 1,800 feet in length measured along the
greatest dimension of the enclosed block areas, unless minor variances are
necessitated by topography or conformance with an adjoining plat.
   (C)   In blocks over 900 feet long, ten-foot wide pedestrian crosswalks may
be required through the blocks in locations deemed necessary to public health,
convenience and necessity. Suitable paving and fencing shall be provided.
   (D)   Blocks for commercial and industrial areas may vary from the elements
of design contained in this section if the nature of the use requires other
treatment. In these cases, off-street parking for employees and customers shall
be provided along with safe and convenient limited access to the street system.
Space for off-street loading shall also be provided with similar access.
Extension of roads, railroad access right-of-way and utilities shall be
provided as necessary.
   (E)   Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots with a minimum
depth as required by
Ch. 153 of this code, except adjoining a lake, stream, railroad or thoroughfare
or where one tier of lots is necessary because of topographic conditions.
(Prior Code, § 12-1386)
§ 160.066 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to straight
street lines or radial to curved street lines or radial to lake or stream
shores unless topographic conditions necessitate a different arrangement.
   (B)   Each lot shall front upon an improved public street.
   (C)   No lot shall have less area or width than is required by zoning
regulations.
   (D)   Lots designed for commercial or industrial purposes shall provide
adequate off-the-street service, loading and parking facilities.
   (E)   Double frontage lots shall not be permitted.
   (F)   Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream shall
have an additional depth or width, as required to assure building sites that
are not subject to flooding.
   (G)   Lots with lakeshore frontage shall be designed so that the lot lines
extended shall maintain the closest approximation to riparian right.
   (H)   In the subdividing of any land, regard shall be shown for all natural
features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots or similar
conditions, which if preserved will add attractiveness and stability to the
proposed development.
   (I)   All remnants of lots below minimum size remaining after subdividing of
a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots.
   (J)   Where a proposed plat is adjacent to a major or minor arterial, there
shall be no direct vehicular access from individual lots to the streets and
roads. In the platting of small tracts of land fronting on limited access
highways or thoroughfares where there is no other alternative, a temporary
entrance may be granted; as neighboring land becomes subdivided and more
preferable access arrangements become possible, the temporary access permits
shall become void. At the time the temporary access is granted, a development
agreement shall be recorded against the lot or lots requiring the owner to bear
the expense of relocating access in the event it becomes necessary. Driveway
access collector streets must be a minimum of 300 feet apart and meet
appropriate safety standards.
   (K)   No lot shall extend over a political subdivision boundary. No building
shall extend over a school district line.
   (L)   In any area where lots are platted in excess of ten acres, a
preliminary subdivision plan may be required showing a potential and feasible
way in which the lot or lots may be resubdivided in future years for more
intensive use of the land. The placement of buildings or structures upon the
lots shall allow for potential resubdivision.
   (M)   Lot width on cul-de-sac lots shall be no less than 300 feet at the
building setback line.
(Prior Code, § 12-1387)
ENGINEERING STANDARDS
§ 160.080 STREETS.
   (A)   Street grading. Streets shall be graded in accordance with a plan
approved by the City Engineer. In the case of an urban street design the
grading shall include the entire width of the right-of-way and shall provide a
boulevard section, in addition to the minimum pavement width. The boulevard
sections for urban roadways shall be graded to maintain the integrity of the
abutting topography. The City Engineer shall review each plan with the
developer to determine the best possible alternative for grading the
boulevards. This may include construction of retaining walls or other
construction to stabilize roadside banks and maintain existing trees or
environmental aspects of a development. As recommended by the City Engineer,
and approved by the City Council, the grades within the boulevard section for
an urban roadway shall be 2% in the first four feet behind the curb. From this
area, the boulevard grades shall match the existing topography at a grade not
to exceed 3%.
   (B)   Street pavement. The design of street pavement for all streets covered
by this regulation shall be in accordance with the state’s Highway Department
Road Design Manual No. 5-291 for flexible pavements. The designed thickness of
the surfacing elements shall be in accordance with the flexible pavement design
standard for road classifications as shown below. However, a minimum of six
inches of class 5 aggregate base and three inches of bituminous surfacing is
required. This bituminous surfacing shall consist of one and one-half inches of
bituminous base course and one and one-half inches of bituminous wear course.
More stringent design may be required by the City Engineer based on soil
borings provided by the developer. The final bituminous wear course shall be
placed no sooner than one year after the date that the bituminous base course
is placed. Immediately prior to the placement of the bituminous wear course,
any roadway settlements or other pavement damage shall be repaired by the
developer.
   (C)   Street design.
 
Street Classification             Pavement Design: Axle Load
Arterials, collector street needs As determined by traffic
Local streets                     7-ton minimum
 
   (D)   Soil tests. To determine subgrade soil classifications, soil samples
shall be collected and analyzed by an independent, certified testing
laboratory. Reports of the soil analysis shall be submitted to the engineer
with the pavement plans. Soil samples shall be taken along the center line of
the proposed road at intervals not exceeding 300 feet.
   (E)   Curb and gutter. Concrete curb and gutter can be constructed on both
sides of urban design streets. Where applicable, curbless roads shall be
designed to encourage stormwater infiltration. Where required, the construction
of concrete curb and gutter shall be in accordance with state’s Department of
Transportation and shall be either barrier or surmountable type curb as
directed by the City Council. Bituminous curbs will not be allowed.
   (F)   Boulevards. All boulevards shall have four inches of top soil (black
dirt) placed on them and then be seeded or sodded.
   (G)   Sidewalks and pedestrian ways. All required walks shall be concrete
four inches thick placed on a four-inch gravel base. Grades shall be approved
by the City Engineer. Sidewalks shall be placed in the public right-of-way.
   (H)   Aggregate shoulders. The aggregate shoulders constructed on rural
design roadways shall consist of a four-foot wide section consisting of two
inches of class 2 aggregate.
(Prior Code, § 12-1427) (Ord. 2004-5, passed 6-15-2004; Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-
21-2017) Penalty, see §
160.999
§ 160.081 UTILITIES.
   (A)   All utilities shall be installed by the subdivider to each lot in the
subdivision.
   (B)   All utilities shall be placed underground. All groundwork shall be
completed prior to street surfacing.
(Prior Code, § 12-1427)
Cross-reference:
   Utilities, see Table of Special Ordinances
§ 160.082 SANITATION, SEWER AND WATER RURAL AREAS.
   (A)   Where lots cannot be connected with a public sewerage system,
provision must be made for sanitary sewerage facilities, consisting of an
individual disposal device for each lot in accordance with
Ch. 154 of this code. This does not mean that the installation of individual
disposal devices shall be at the expense of the subdivider.
   (B)   Any subdivision or lot not provided with off-site sewer facilities
shall be subject to soil and percolation tests to determine whether the lot
size proposed will meet minimum standards of health and sanitation due to
limitations of soils as shown on existing soils maps. The lot area and
topography must accommodate two adequate disposal systems to serve the
residence for the estimated unsewered years, as determined by the City Council.
The test shall be made at the expense of the subdivider, and a sketch map shall
be submitted to identify the specific locations where tests were made.
   (C)   Four soil borings showing an area of 10,000 square feet suitable for
an on-site septic system shall be required for each proposed lot by a certified
soil tester. Additional testing may be required for each proposed lot by a
certified soil tester. Additional testing may be required if serious
limitations for the installation of an on-site system are found.
   (D)   All on-site sewage disposal systems shall comply with the standards of
Ch. 154 of this code, the state’s Department of Health and the state’s
Pollution Control Agency.
(Prior Code, § 12-1428) Penalty, see §
160.999
Cross-reference:
   Sewage, see
Ch. 154
§ 160.083 STORMWATER DRAINAGE.
   A drainage system design shall be required, and may include a storm sewer
system or a system of open ditches, culverts, pipes, catch basins and ponding
areas or both systems. These facilities and easements shall be installed as
will adequately provide for the drainage of surface waters; drainage way
easements or land dedication may be required when the easements or land is
needed in the public interest for purposes of floodplain management, proper
drainage, prevention of erosion, pedestrian access to waterbodies or other
public purposes. If there is a Watershed District, that Board must approve all
surface water drainage. The City Engineer shall review and approve the
stormwater drainage system and all runoff calculations for any street
improvement project.
(Prior Code, § 12-1429) (Ord. 2004-5, passed 6-15-2004; Ord. 03-2017, passed 3-
21-2017)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 160.100 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Improvements required. Prior to final approval of a plat by the City
Council, the subdivider shall have agreed, in the manner set forth below, to
install at the subdivider’s expense and in conformity with all applicable
standards and ordinances, the following improvements on site.
      (1)   Survey monuments. All subdivision boundary corners, block and lot
corners, road intersection corners and points of tangency and curvature shall
be marked with survey monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the
property and shall be preserved in precise position unless a relocation is
approved by the controlling agency. Delayed setting of monuments shall not be
permitted.
      (2)   Grading. The full width of the right-of-way of each street and
alley dedicated in the plat shall be graded for an urban design roadway. All
graded rights-of-way, not including the street surface, and all graded or
disturbed areas within a subdivision shall be seeded and stabilized in
compliance with the recommendations of the county’s Soil Conservation District
and the City Engineer within 30 days of the completion of grading or
disturbance of individual areas.
      (3)   Pavement. All street and alleys shall be improved with concrete or
bituminous surface.
      (4)   Curb and gutter. Along both sides of an urban design street,
concrete curb and gutter shall be installed.
      (5)   Drainage facilities. The facilities and easements shall be
installed as will adequately provide for the drainage of surface waters; a
storm sewer system may be required when the easements or land is needed in the
public interest for purposes of floodplain management, proper drainage,
prevention of erosion, pedestrian access to waterbodies, or other public
purpose. If there is a Watershed District, that Board must approve all surface
water drainage. If SCS structures exist on the land to be subdivided or will be
required, SCS must approve the plan for structures and restoration.
      (6)   Miscellaneous facilities. Tree planting, traffic control signs,
oversized utility trunk lines, pedestrian ways and other improvements may be
required.
      (7)   Erosion control. Prior to the commencement of any grading or
disturbance of any area within a subdivision, silt fences or other erosion
control devices required and approved by the City Engineer shall be installed
on site. These devices shall include but not be limited to: staging, grading
operations, side slopes, silt fences, mulching, culverts, ponding areas,
netting and the like. The erosion control devices shall remain in place and
shall be maintained in working order until the disturbed areas are stabilized
and roadways are approved, at which time they shall be removed at the expense
of the developer.
(Prior Code, § 12-1471)
      (8)   All street signs shall be provided and installed by the city at the
expense of the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 12-1430)
   (B)   Payment for installation.
      (1)   The required improvements as listed elsewhere are to be furnished
and installed at the sole expense of the subdivider.
      (2)   If the platting and development of the subject property shall
necessitate the construction and improvement of public roads outside of the
subdivided property, the city may require the owner to provide sufficient
financial guarantees for the portion of the estimated cost of the construction
or improvement as represents the benefit to the subdivided property using usual
assessment apportionment practices.
(Prior Code, § 12-1472)
      (3)   All required improvements shall be inspected by the City Engineer
during construction at the expense of the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 12-1472)
   (C)   Agreement providing for the installation.
      (1)   Prior to the installation of any required improvements and prior to
approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall enter into a contract in
writing with the city requiring the subdivider to have the improvements
constructed by the subdivider in accordance with the plans and specifications
prepared by the City Engineer, which plans shall be in conformance with all
applicable standards and ordinances. The contract shall provide for the
observation of construction by the City Engineer to ensure conformance to the
plans and specifications, and shall require that the city be reimbursed for all
costs incurred by the city for planning, engineering and legal fees and other
expenses in connections with making the improvements; and shall contain other
provisions as may be required by the City Council.
         (a)   The subdivider shall, concurrently with the execution of the
contract, make a cash escrow deposit, or in lieu thereof, provide an
irrevocable letter of credit, the amount of which shall be equal to 150% of the
City Engineer’s estimate of the total cost of the improvements to be furnished
under the contract, including the costs for legal, administrative and
engineering expenses, including inspection. The city shall be entitled to
reimburse itself out of the cash deposit or irrevocable letter of credit for
all expenses incurred by the city for the completion of the work, and upon
completion of the work, any balance remaining in the deposit shall be refunded
to the subdivider. The subdivider shall also agree to reimburse the city for
any costs and expenses incurred in excess of the original cash deposit or
irrevocable letter of credit, and shall replenish the deposit or letter of
credit as necessary and requested by the city to secure the subdivider’s
obligations to the city.
         (b)   On request of the subdivider, the contract may provide for
completion of part or all of the improvements covered thereby prior to
acceptance of the plat. In this event, the amount of the deposit or letter of
credit may be reduced in a sum equal to one-half of the estimated cost of
covered improvements completed prior to acceptance of the plat. The time for
completion of the work and the several parts thereof shall be determined by the
City Council upon recommendation of the City Engineer. It shall be reasonable
with relation to the work to be done, the seasons of the year and proper
correlations with construction activities in the plat and subdivision.
      (2)   No subdivider shall be permitted to start work on any other
subdivision without special approval of the City Council if he or she has
previously defaulted on work or commitments.
(Prior Code, § 12-1473)
   (D)   Financial guarantee. The financial guarantee required as part of the
division agreement shall be one of the following:
      (1)   Escrow deposit. A cash escrow deposit may be made with the City
Administrator. The city shall be entitled to reimburse itself out of the
deposit for any cost or expense incurred by the city for completion of the work
in case of default of the breach thereof.
      (2)   Letter of credit. The subdivider may deposit with the city, from a
bank or other reputable institution or individual subject to the approval of
the City Council, an irrevocable letter of credit which shall certify that:
         (a)   The creditor does guarantee funds in the required amount;
         (b)   In the case of failure on the part of the subdivider to complete
the specified improvements within the required time period, the creditor shall
pay to the city immediately, and without further action, the funds as are
necessary to finance the completion of those improvements, up to the limit of
credit stated in the letter; and
         (c)   This letter of credit may not be withdrawn, or reduced in
amount, until released by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-1474)
   (E)   Construction plans and inspections.
      (1)   Construction plans for the required improvements conforming in all
respects with the standards and ordinances of the city shall be prepared at the
subdivider’s expense by the City Engineer. The plans shall become part of the
required contract. Two prints of the plans shall be furnished to the city to be
filed as a public record.
      (2)   All required improvements on the site that are to be installed
under the provisions of this regulation shall be inspected during the course of
construction by the City Engineer at the subdivider’s expense. Any tests
necessary to determine conformance to all city specifications and requirements
and the plans shall be prescribed and scheduled by the City Engineer and
performed at the subdivider’s expense. Acceptance by the city of the
improvements and release of the subdivider’s security shall occur one year
after the City Engineer has certified completion of the project and compliance
with the contract.
      (3)   The subdivider shall obtain at his or her own expense, an “as
built” plan which shall be submitted to the city upon completion of
improvements and before the improvements are accepted by the city. The City
Engineer shall certify to the city that the improvements were constructed as
specified in the plans, and that the improvements were constructed according to
all applicable standards and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12-1475)
   (F)   Completion prior to approval of plat. Improvements within a
subdivision which have been completed prior to application for approval of the
plat or execution of the contract for installation of the required improvements
shall be accepted as equivalent improvements in compliance with the
requirements only if the City Engineer shall certify that he or she is
satisfied that the existing improvements conform to applicable standards.
(Prior Code, § 12-1476)
(Res. 1997-16, passed 6-17-1997; Ord. 10-2005, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
160.999
Cross-reference:
   Signs, see §§
153.130 through
153.133
§ 160.101 PROTECTIVE COVENANTS REQUIRED FOR ALL MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Protective development covenants shall be required of all major
subdivisions within the corporate boundaries of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1480)
   (B)   All protective covenants shall contain regulations for the compliance
of all aspects of Chapter 25, Article I. Furthermore, private penalties shall
be established and enforced for any property owner unable to comply with any
aspect of Chapter 25, Article I, Section 25-1 to 25-7.
(Prior Code, § 12-1481)
(Ord. 10-2005, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 160.102 LOWER ST. CROIX RIVER SHORELAND MANAGEMENT.
   Land suitability. No land shall be subdivided which is found by the Council
to be unsuitable for reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, soil and rock
formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential,
unfavorable topography, inadequate water supply or sewer disposal capabilities
or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety or welfare of
the future residents of the proposed subdivision or the community. The Council
in applying the provisions of this section shall in writing cite the particular
features upon which it bases its conclusions that the land is not suitable for
the proposed use and afford the subdivider an opportunity to present evidence
regarding suitability at a public hearing. Thereafter, the Council may affirm,
modify or withdraw its determination of unsuitability.
(Prior Code, § 12-1496)
Cross-reference:
   Lower St. Croix River bluffland and shoreland management, see
Ch. 157
§ 160.103 OPEN SPACE PRESERVATION USING SHARED DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purposes of this section are:
      (1)   To encourage the preservation of open space and rural vistas
through large lot development using shared driveways;
      (2)   To preserve the natural resources of the site and to preserve
wildlife habitat and corridors; and
      (3)   To provide for long-term low density development and minimize the
city’s ongoing costs by allowing large lots to be accessed via shared driveways
rather than public roads.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SHARED DRIVEWAY. A privately owned and maintained driveway that serves
more than one lot.
      SHARED DRIVEWAY MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT. An agreement between the owners of
lots served by a shared driveway that includes the standards for maintenance of
the shared driveway, who is responsible for the maintenance and how the costs
of maintenance are to be allocated among the owners of the lots served by the
shared driveway.
   (C)   General standards for the use of shared driveways.
      (1)   A conditional use permit shall be required for all subdivisions
that use shared driveways. The city may approve the use of shared driveways for
a subdivision if it finds that the subdivision satisfies all of the following
standards.
         (a)   A conservation easement that prohibits the future subdivision of
all of the lots involved in the subdivision shall be jointly held by the Belwin
Conservancy, or other third party approved by the city who will hold the
easement for the long-term, and the city, and shall be recorded on the property
along with the recording of the subdivision.
         (b)   Shared driveways shall not be allowed on cul-de-sacs that were
purposely created as part of a subdivision to provide access to the
subdivision, and already contain the maximum allowed number of lots, and shared
driveways shall not be allowed on a cul-de-sac serving a Preservation and Land
Conservation Development (PLCD) and cannot be connected to property in a PLCD.
         (c)   The minimum shared driveway width is 12 feet, but may be
required to be wider based on the number of lots to be served and the
recommendations from the Fire Department.
         (d)   The tract of land required for the use of shared driveways is a
minimum of 40 contiguous acres in size.
         (e)   The minimum allowed size of lots served by a shared driveway is
20 acres.
         (f)   Shared driveways are allowed in the Agricultural and Rural
Residential Zoning Districts.
         (g)   Because access is provided through shared driveways rather than
through the construction of a new public road, the new lots served by the
shared driveways are not required to meet the public street frontage
requirement.
         (h)   The lot from which a shared driveway serves a new lot shall have
at least 60% of the required frontage on a public street, unless the lot is at
the end of a dead-end public street that does not have a cul-de-sac. In this
case, the following requirements shall be met.
            1.   A cul-de-sac bulb that meets the requirements of the Fire
Department and that is subject to review and approval by the City Engineer
shall be provided on the lot.
            2.   A public street easement shall be provided over the cul-de-
sac.
            3.   A private driveway easement shall be provided from the cul-de-
sac to the property to be served by the shared driveway, if there is not a
public right-of-way easement beyond the dead-end that extends to the property
to be served by the shared driveway.
         (i)   The location of shared driveways as they meet a public road,
including the distance between driveways, shall be subject to review and
approval by the City Engineer, to ensure traffic safety requirements are met.
         (j)   The lots on a shared driveway shall be addressed based on the
public street from which the lots are accessed via the shared driveways and
signage with the addresses of the lots shall be provided at the point where the
shared driveways meet the public street right-of-way.
         (k)   While a shared driveway shall generally serve a maximum of two
lots, a shared driveway that serves up to three lots could be considered if the
property owner demonstrates the driveway would better achieve the purposes of
this subchapter as set out in division (A) above than would a driveway serving
two lots. This could include reducing the impact of the driveways on the open
space areas by reducing the number of shared driveways needed and/or
substantially reducing the total length of driveways needed.
         (l)   A shared driveway requires a multi-party shared driveway
agreement that sets out how the shared driveway is to be maintained, repaired
and improved, who is responsible for planning, coordinating and implementing
the maintenance, repairs and improvements, as well as for planning the
projected costs of these items, and how the costs of maintenance, repairs and
improvements are to be allocated among the owners of the lots served by the
driveway. The agreement shall provide for a dispute resolution process that
does not include the city. The shared driveway agreement shall be executed for
each driveway, subject to review and approval by the city, and shall be
recorded against the property of each party
(Ord. 02-2021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 160.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violated any of the provisions of this chapter, or who
sells, or offers for sale any lot, block or tract of land herewith regulated
before all the requirements of this chapter have been complied with shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof be subject to fine and/or
imprisonment. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 12-1269)
   (B)   Any owner or agent of the owner of land who conveys a lot or parcel in
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall pay to the city a penalty (no
criminal sanction) of not less than $100 for each lot or parcel so conveyed.
The city may enjoin the conveyance or may recover the penalty by a civil action
in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 12-1269)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate the subdivision of land, see M.S. § 462.358
CHAPTER 161: HERITAGE PRESERVATION
Section
General Provisions
   
161.01   Public policy and purpose
   
161.02   Definitions
   
161.03   Review of activities
   
161.04   Enforcement
Design Review Guidelines
   
161.15   Purpose and intent
   
161.16   General principles
Design; Restoration and Rehabilitation
   
161.30   Masonry walls and foundations
   
161.31   Walls; wood sided
   
161.32   Roofs and chimneys
   
161.33   Windows
   
161.34   Entries
   
161.35   Porches and steps
   
161.36   Exterior trim and architectural features
   
161.37   Commercial buildings; rehabilitation and restoration
Design; New Constructions and Additions
   
161.50   General guidelines
   
161.51   New construction
   
161.52   Additions to principal buildings
   
161.53   Accessory buildings
   
161.54   Site considerations
   
161.55   Public improvements
   
161.56   Signs
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Ch. 150
   Heritage Preservation Commission, see
Ch. 32
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 161.01 PUBLIC POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council hereby declares as a matter of public policy that the
preservation, protection, perpetuation and use of areas, places, buildings,
structures and other objects having special historical interest or value is a
public necessity, and is required in the interest of the health, safety,
welfare and prosperity of the people.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Safeguard the rural landscape and heritage of the city both outside
and inside the VHS District by preserving sites and structures which reflect
elements of the community’s cultural, social, economic, political, visual or
architectural history;
      (2)   Protect and enhance the city’s appeal to residents, visitors and
tourists, and serve as a support and stimulus to business and commerce;
      (3)   Foster civic pride in the beauty and notable accomplishments of the
past; and
      (4)   Promote the preservation and continued use of historic sites and
structures for the education and general welfare of the people of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1526)
§ 161.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL. The documentation provided by the Commission which
evidences approval of activities proposed for a heritage preservation site.
   COMMISSION. The Heritage Preservation Commission established in §§
32.30 through
32.43 of this code.
   DESIGN REVIEW GUIDELINES. Guidelines presented in this chapter and to be
used in reviewing exterior alterations requiring a building permit for
designated heritage preservation sites.
   HERITAGE PRESERVATION SITE. Any area, place, building, structures, lands,
landscaping, districts, adjacent property or other objects which have been so
designated pursuant to the provisions established by this chapter.
   SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS. Standards for preservation planning
published by the Secretary of the Interior and published as the Standards for
Rehabilitation by the U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service.
   VHS DISTRICT. The Village Historic Site District defined in §
153.061 of this code, and for which design review is provided through the
administrative permit process.
(Prior Code, § 12-1527)
§ 161.03 REVIEW OF ACTIVITIES.
   The type of activities under this chapter to be reviewed are as follows:
   (A)   Remodel, repair or change in any manner that will alter the exterior
appearance of an existing building or site including painting, signage,
awnings, landscaping or permanent interior remodeling which affects the
exterior appearance;
   (B)   New construction including the expansion or enlargement of an existing
building or site;
   (C)   Moving of buildings;
   (D)   Demolition in whole or part; or
   (E)   Public improvement projects which directly or indirectly affect a
heritage preservation site.
(Prior Code, § 12-1528) (Ord. 02-2009, passed 4-21-2009)
§ 161.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No activity as defined by this chapter shall occur on a heritage
preservation site without having first received a certificate of approval
issued by the Commission. No application fee shall be returned to an applicant
until the certificate of approval is provided. Activity initiated or completed
without the consent of the Commission and city as required shall be considered
to be in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon citing any violation of this chapter, the Commission shall
initiate actions necessary to resolve the violation, if a violation cannot be
resolved with the cooperation of the affected parties, the Commission shall
initiate the following procedures:
      (1)   A written notice of violation will be provided to the owner or
designated representative of the heritage preservation site. The notice shall
specify the nature of the violation and possible means for rectifying the
violation.
      (2)   The notice shall be issued by registered mail or hand delivered
receipt requested to the owner or designated representative of the heritage
preservation site. Upon receipt of the notice of violation, ten days will be
allowed to rectify the violation to the satisfaction of the Commission.
      (3)   If the violation is not rectified to the satisfaction of the
Commission as required, the city shall proceed to prosecute the matter as a
misdemeanor punishable by fine, imprisonment or both in accordance with the
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 12-1529) Penalty, see §
10.99
DESIGN REVIEW GUIDELINES
§ 161.15 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The design review guidelines are the basis for the Zoning
Administrator’s and Design Review Committee’s conditional use review for
properties within the VHS-R and VHS-C Districts. They are also the basis for
the Heritage Preservation Commission’s review of heritage preservation sites
designated outside of the VHS-R and VHS-C Districts.
   (B)   (1)   The preface to the guidelines is based on the U.S. Secretary of
the Interior’s standard for rehabilitation.
      (2)   The design guidelines further identify key visual and architectural
characteristics of buildings in the district to ensure that they are preserved
and enhanced in rehabilitation or new construction.
      (3)   They provide standards for considering the impact of exterior
alterations on the individual building as well as on an entire district.
   (C)   (1)   The guidelines are intended to be flexible, and the conditional
use review will be conducted on a case-by-case basis.
      (2)   With regard to alterations to existing buildings, the expense of
certain restoration techniques, the availability and expense of historic
materials and economic hardship are among factors which should be considered by
the Zoning Administrator, Design Review Committee to the Planning Commission
and the Heritage Preservation Commission.
(Prior Code, § 12-1621)
§ 161.16 GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
   The general objective of the design review guidelines is to maintain the
architectural and visual qualities of existing historic buildings and
streetscapes and to encourage architecturally compatible new design. The
guidelines are based on the Secretary of the Interior’s standards for
rehabilitation as well as on an analysis of the specific characteristics of the
city’s historic buildings.
   (A)   All work should be of a character and quality that maintains the
distinguishing features of the building and the environment. The removal or
alteration of distinctive architectural features should be avoided as should
alterations that have no historical basis and which seek to create an earlier
appearance. The restoration of altered original features, if documentable, is
encouraged.
   (B)   Changes which may have taken place in the course of time are evidence
of the history and development of a building, structure or site and its
environment. These changes may have acquired significance in their own right,
and this significance shall be recognized and respected.
   (C)   Deteriorated architectural features should be repaired rather than
replaced whenever possible. In the event of replacement, new materials should
match the original in composition and design including consideration of
proportion, texture, detail, color and overall appearance.
   (D)   New additions or alterations to structures should be constructed in a
manner that if the additions or alterations were to be removed in the future,
the form and integrity of the original structure would be unimpaired.
   (E)   The impact of alterations or additions on individual buildings as well
as on the surrounding streetscape will be considered; major alterations to
buildings which occupy a corner lot or are otherwise prominently sited should
be avoided.
   (F)   New construction should be compatible with the historic and
architectural character of the district.
(Prior Code, § 12-1622)
DESIGN; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION
§ 161.30 MASONRY WALLS AND FOUNDATIONS.
   Although most buildings in the district are of wood frame construction,
there are a few brick, stucco and concrete block examples, and all rest on
masonry foundations. Masonry must be cared for properly. Poor maintenance,
cleaning or repair can result in extensive water damage and eventual structural
failure.
   (A)   Repair. Deteriorated brick, stone, mortar and other materials should
be replaced with material used in the original construction or with materials
that resemble the appearance of the original as closely as possible. The advice
of a skilled mason should be sought for major repair projects.
   (B)   Cleaning. Masonry cleaning should be conducted only to halt
deterioration and by means such as low pressure water, soft brushes and/or
appropriate chemical treatment. Sandblasting should not be used under any
circumstances.
   (C)   Repointing. Original mortar joint size and profile should be retained
and/or reduplicated in repointing. Mortar mixtures should duplicate the
original in lime, sand and cement proportion and should duplicate the original
mortar in color and texture.
   (D)   Stucco resurfacing. Repairs to stucco surfaces should duplicate the
original in color and texture, if evidence exists. Smooth or heavy dashed
surfaces should be avoided unless they were used on the original surface.
   (E)   Painting. The original color and texture of masonry surfaces should be
retained and unpainted stone and brick surfaces should not be painted. The
removal of paint from painted masonry surfaces should only be attempted if
unpainted surfaces are historically appropriate and if removal can be
accomplished without damage to the masonry.
   (F)   Resurfacing. Stucco, artificial stone, brick veneer or vinyl or
aluminum products should not be applied over masonry surfaces.
(Prior Code, § 12-1666)
Cross-reference:
   Chimney guidelines, see §
161.32
§ 161.31 WALLS; WOOD SIDED.
   Wood building products, including siding, shingles and a great variety of
decorative trim were used extensively by the 19th- and early 20th-century
builders of the city. Wood contributes texture and detail to the historic
streetscape and is a durable, high-quality material with a long product life if
properly maintained.
   (A)   Repair. Wooden siding should be maintained with paint or stain.
Deteriorated wooden siding should be replaced with new material resembling the
original in width, thickness and profile and texture. New siding should be
installed with the weather (exposed surface) identical to the original. Siding
should be installed horizontally except in those instances where vertical or
diagonal siding was used on the original exterior. Appropriate corner boards,
frieze boards and drip caps and other features should be included with
replacement siding.
   (B)   Vinyl and aluminum siding; other manufactured products.
      (1)   Buildings originally clad in wooden siding should not be resurfaced
with brick, stucco, artificial stone or brick veneer, hardboard or vinyl or
aluminum siding.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator or Commission may consider the following
exceptions to the installation of vinyl, metal or hardboard siding on a case-
by-case basis:
         (a)   In cases where existing asphalt, asbestos, aluminum or vinyl
siding is to be removed and where the underlying original siding and decorative
features are found to be significantly deteriorated, the Zoning Administrator
or Commission should conduct a site visit during the removal process and advise
on appropriate treatment;
         (b)   In the resurfacing of noncontributing buildings constructed
after 1940; and
         (c)   In the resurfacing of existing or construction of new garages,
particularly when the garage is inconspicuously sited.
      (3)   If vinyl, metal or hardboard siding is used, it must be of a width
appropriate to the style of the building, and all architectural details
including window trim, wood cornices and ornament must remain uncovered.
Replacement siding may cover only one layer of existing siding. Trim must be
built up so that it projects from the new siding to the same extent as the
original.
   (C)   Shingles. Buildings originally clad in horizontal wooden siding should
not be resurfaced with shingles of wood or other material. Wooden shingles used
for cladding material or decoration, such as in the gable ends, should be
conserved and retained. If replacement is necessary, shingles should replicate
the original in width, pattern, thickness, profile, texture and weather (lap).
   (D)   Decorative siding treatments. Decorative siding treatments, such as
paneled herringbone patterns used in the gable ends, should be retained in
repair or resurfacing.
   (E)   Painting. Exterior wooden surfaces should be maintained with
appropriate paint or stain.
(Prior Code, § 12-1667)
§ 161.32 ROOFS AND CHIMNEYS.
   The shape, texture and color of the roof are important design features of
any building. Gable and hipped roofs are most common for residential
construction, while flat roofs are found on some commercial buildings. Many of
the early houses of the city were roofed in cedar shingles and later reroofed
with asphalt shingles. Properly selected, modern asphalt roofing materials are
compatible with the appearance of historic buildings.
   (A)   Roofing materials. New roofing material should be appropriate to the
character of the building in composition, size, shape and texture. Dark brown,
dark gray and “weathered wood” are among usually acceptable colors. Rolled
roofing may be used only on flat or slightly sloped roofs which are not visible
from the public way.
   (B)   Alterations to roof shape; front. The original roof type, slope and
overhangs should be preserved. The roof shape at the front should not be
altered except to restore it to the original documented appearance or to add
architecturally compatible dormers. Documentation includes evidence of the
former appearance of the building, or, in the case of pattern book houses,
those of similar period and style. The shape of existing dormers should not be
altered unless compatible with the original design.
   (C)   Alterations to roof shape; rear. Alterations to the roof shape at the
sides or rear should be compatible with the architectural character of the
building.
   (D)   Skylights. Wherever possible, skylights should not be installed on the
front roof plane. They should be flat and as close to the roof plane as
possible.
   (E)   Rebuilt chimneys. If rebuilding is necessary, original brick details
such as decorative panels and coffers should be replicated. In the absence of
evidence of the original appearance of the chimney, repair or rebuilding should
be compatible with the building style or type.
   (F)   Chimneys and stovepipes. Wherever possible, new chimneys and
stovepipes should not be installed on the front roof plane.
(Prior Code, § 12-1668)
§ 161.33 WINDOWS.
   Many of the historic windows of the city have double-hung sash and a
vertical orientation. Windows are important design elements and establish the
visual rhythm, balance and general character of the facade. Any alteration,
including removal of moldings or changes in window size or type, can have a
significant and often detrimental effect on the appearance of the building as
well as on the surrounding streetscape.
   (A)   Size and shape. Existing window openings should be retained. Window
openings should not be enlarged or reduced significantly to fit new units. New
window openings should not be introduced into principal elevations.
   (B)   Sash. The size and number of panes of glass in each sash should not be
altered. New sash, if installed, should duplicate the existing or other
appropriate historic models. Crank-out units are not appropriate replacements
for double-hung sash, particularly where visible from the public way.
   (C)   Trim. Historic window casings should be retained wherever possible; if
replacement is necessary, the original profile should be replicated.
   (D)   Storm windows. If combination metal storms are installed, they should
have a baked enamel finish. Storm windows should not have vertical or
horizontal divisions which conflict with the divisions of the sash.
(Prior Code, § 12-1669)
§ 161.34 ENTRIES.
   The entry, including the door, door surround and sometimes sidelights and a
transom, is usually the focal point of the facade. The size of the entry is
directly related to the mass and scale of the building. As with windows, any
alteration to size, shape or trim details can have a detrimental effect on
exterior appearance.
   (A)   Size and shape. All historic entry components should be retained.
Entry openings should not be enlarged or reduced to fit a new door. New entry
openings should not be introduced into principal elevations.
   (B)   Trim. Original or historic features of the entry, including hoods,
columns, sidelights and transoms should be retained. If replacement is
necessary, historic trim details should be replicated.
   (C)   Doors. Wherever possible, historic paneled doors (and hardware) should
be repaired and weather-stripped rather than replaced. If replacement of
original or historic doors is necessary, the replacement should duplicate and
be compatible with the material, design and hardware of the older door. Steel-
covered hollow core doors should not be installed unless compatible with the
appearance of the house. Historic trim should not be removed from the entry for
the installation of steel doors.
   (D)   Storm and screen doors. Storm doors should be compatible with the
inner door in shape and style.
   (E)   Sliding glass doors. Sliding glass doors should be confined to the
rear of the building where not visible from the public way.
(Prior Code, § 12-1670)
§ 161.35 PORCHES AND STEPS.
   Most of the 19th and early 20th-century houses of the city had unenclosed
front porches. The porch usually stretched across the full width of the front
facade, but in some cases only covered the entry. Since porches and steps are
exposed to the weather and receive hard use, some buildings have had a
succession of replacements which reflect different styles of architecture.
   (A)   Conservation. Porches, steps and handrails which are appropriate to
the building and its period of development should be conserved and retained.
   (B)   Repair and replacement. Historic porches, steps or handrails which
require complete rebuilding or partial replacement should be reconstructed
using historical research to determine an appropriate design. Reconstructions
should be compatible with the period and style of the building in material,
design and detail. Concrete should not be used to replace wooden porch floors
or steps.
   (C)   Railings. The original spacing, section and profile of balusters
should be maintained in replacement or repair. Unless historical evidence
indicates, reconstruction should include a bottom rail and balusters should not
be nailed directly to the step or deck. Metal railings should not be used to
replace wooden railings.
   (D)   Posts and columns. If replacement is necessary, porch posts and
columns should be replaced with units that replicate the original material,
size and scale. Elaborate details such as turning, gouging or stamping may be
simplified if necessary. Wooden posts should not be replaced with metal posts
or supports.
   (E)   Enclosure. Unenclosed front porches should not be permanently
enclosed.
   (F)   Decks. Decks should be constructed only at the rear of the building or
where most inconspicuous. Railings, steps and other deck details should be
compatible with the architectural character of the building.
(Prior Code, § 12-1671)
§ 161.36 EXTERIOR TRIM AND ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES.
   Exterior trim includes the decorative and sometimes functional elements of
the exterior which contribute to the proportion, texture and detail of the
building. A great variety of machine-made trim was added to even the simplest
wooden houses and commercial buildings.
   (A)   Conservation. Exterior architectural features including finials,
cornices, brackets, columns, balustrades, railings and window and door moldings
should be retained.
   (B)   Documentation. Original trim details and other architectural features
should be photographed or otherwise recorded before they are removed for repair
or replacement. Deteriorated trim which is removed should be saved for use in
making duplicates.
   (C)   Repair and replacement. New material used to repair or replace
deteriorated trim or other features should match the original as closely as
possible. Deteriorated trim which is unsalvageable should be replaced with trim
identical or similar to the original design. Simplified trim should approximate
the old in design and placement.
   (D)   New trim. Details should not be added in an effort to make the
building look older. However, in the case of some pattern book houses, the
addition of certain trim details such as those typical at the gable and porch
may be acceptable if supported by historic photos or pattern book sources.
(Prior Code, § 12-1672)
§ 161.37 COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS; REHABILITATION AND RESTORATION.
   The nonresidential buildings within the district are of simple construction
and style. Each building is unique; some commercial buildings occupy former
houses. Those with storefronts generally have a two-part horizontal division
with glazed (or once-glazed) storefronts at the first story.
   (A)   Conservation. The original appearance of commercial buildings and
storefronts, when present, should be conserved. Decorative features should be
retained in repair and renovation projects. Storefronts should not obscure the
basic architectural framework of the buildings which they occupy. Storefront
design should not reproduce styles of a period earlier than the building they
occupy.
   (B)   Masonry surfaces. Masonry and other original surfaces should be
conserved. Brick should not be covered with stucco, shakes or other veneer.
   (C)   Windows. Windows should not be filled in with wood, brick or any other
material. Window sizes and shapes should be maintained if removal of original
units is necessary.
   (D)   Roofs and parapets. The original roofline, including cornice, parapet
and other elements, should be maintained.
   (E)   Signs.
      (1)   Signs should be compatible with the character of the building and
surrounding area. Signs should be appropriately sized and complement the
building exterior. They should not conceal architectural details or features.
Sign materials should be compatible with the materials of the building to which
they are attached.
      (2)   No part of the historic facade should be damaged in the
installation of the sign. Rooftop signs are inappropriate.
   (F)   Awnings. Awnings should be sized to fit the windows and storefronts
behind them. They should not greatly obscure the architectural features behind
them. Canvas is the most suitable material for most storefronts.
(Prior Code, § 12-1673)
DESIGN; NEW CONSTRUCTIONS AND ADDITIONS
§ 161.50 GENERAL GUIDELINES.
   The objective of guidelines for new construction is to encourage a high
standard of historically compatible new design. New buildings and structures
should be compatible with the size, scale, massing, height, rhythm, setback,
color, material, building elements, site design and character of surrounding
structures as well as the broad context of the district or area. Other
applicable zoning regulations should be consulted before planning new
construction.
   (A)   Site evaluation. Whenever possible, existing historic buildings and
landscape features should be retained and rehabilitated in plans for
redevelopment.
   (B)   General character. New construction should reinforce the historic
architectural and visual character of the district; specifically, it should
refer to the traditional one- and two-story dwelling and commercial building
module and typical setbacks already established in the district.
   (C)   Pedestrian circulation and parking. New construction should be
oriented toward streets which are inviting environments for pedestrians.
Parking areas should be placed at the rear of buildings wherever possible, or
screened with landscaping, low walls or appropriately detailed fences.
   (D)   Views and vistas. Wherever possible, distinctive views of the river
and bluffs provided from the public way should not be obstructed by new
buildings or structures.
(Prior Code, § 12-1711)
§ 161.51 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Siting and setback. New construction should maintain the uniform
setback of older residential and commercial buildings along the street.
   (B)   Massing, height and scale. New construction should conform to the
massing, volume, height, facade proportions and scale of buildings within view
of the site, and also comply with existing zoning regulations. The gross volume
of any new structure should be visually compatible with the buildings and
elements within the surrounding area.
   (C)   Materials and details. Although the architectural character of the
district is quite eclectic, materials and details should be compatible with
adjacent buildings. Wood and masonry are preferable to vinyl, metal or
hardboard siding. Imitative materials such as artificial stone or brick veneer
should not be used. The use of vinyl, metal or hardboard siding will be
considered by the Zoning Administrator or Commission on a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Parking. Parking areas should be located at the side or at the rear of
the buildings and should be screened with landscaping, low walls or
appropriately detailed fences. A vegetation screening plan should accompany
plans for parking development.
   (E)   Building elements.
      (1)   Roofs. In new construction, the skyline or roof profile should
relate to the predominant roof shapes of the surrounding area. Roofing
materials used on new buildings should be appropriate to the design of the
building and the visibility of the roof. Roof hardware such as skylights, vents
and metal pipe chimneys should not be placed on the front roof plane.
      (2)   Windows and entries. Prominent first-floor display windows and
distinctive entries facing the street are typical for existing historic
commercial buildings. Similarly, vertically-oriented, double-hung sash is the
predominant window type for the upper stories of residential buildings within
the district. The location, proportion, size, rhythm and detailing of windows
and entries should address these traditional forms.
      (3)   Signs and lighting.
         (a)   Signs, graphics and lighting should be designed as part of the
facade. Signs on commercial blocks housing several adjacent businesses should
be designed to unify the facade, while providing identity for individual
businesses.
         (b)   Type, style, sign color and sign materials should complement the
building exterior. Lighting should be compatible with the building exterior and
signs. Internally lighted signs should not be used where they overpower the
facade or setting.
(Prior Code, § 12-1712)
§ 161.52 ADDITIONS TO PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Massing and scale. New construction should conform to the massing,
volume, height, facade proportions and scale of surrounding structures and also
comply with existing zoning regulations. The gross volume of any new structure
should be visually compatible with the buildings and elements within the
surrounding area. New dwellings and commercial buildings should be compatible
with the height of existing adjacent buildings.
   (B)   Materials and details. Materials and details should relate to those of
existing nearby buildings. Wood and masonry are preferable to vinyl, metal or
hardboard siding. Imitative materials such as artificial stone or brick veneer
should not be used. Materials will be reviewed to determine their appropriate
use in relation to the overall design of the structure. The use of vinyl, metal
or hardboard siding will be considered by the Zoning Administrator or
Commission on a case-by-case basis.
   (C)   Building elements.
      (1)   Roofs. In new construction, the skyline or roof profile should
relate to the predominant roof shape of nearby buildings. Highly visible
secondary structure roofs should match the roof pitch of the main structure.
The roofing materials used on new buildings should be appropriate to the design
of the building and the visibility of the roof. Roof hardware such as
skylights, vents and metal pipe chimneys should be placed on the front roof
plane.
      (2)   Windows and entries. Vertically oriented, double-hung sash are the
predominant historic window type in the city, although there are exceptions.
The proportion, size, rhythm and detailing of windows and entries should be
compatible with that of existing nearby buildings. The rhythm of solids to
voids created by openings in the facade of the new structure should be visually
compatible with surrounding structures.
      (3)   Porches and decks. Porches are a standard feature of many historic
houses in the city and whether enclosed or unenclosed they are an important
part of the streetscape. The front entry of new construction in residential
areas should be articulated with a design element such as a porch, portico or
landing which provides a transitional zone between the semipublic and public
exterior zones and the private interior zone. This design element should be
appropriately detailed and compatible with the size and scale of the building.
Decks should be constructed at the rear of the building and should be
integrated into the overall design. Decks should be appropriately detailed and
should not be raised in a manner which makes them conspicuous.
(Prior Code, § 12-1713)
§ 161.53 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Garages and other accessory buildings shall be compatible with the overall
design and materials of the existing buildings on the lot. New garages should
be located at the rear of the site wherever possible. Garages should not be
attached to the front of the building.
(Prior Code, § 12-1714)
§ 161.54 SITE CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Setback and siting. The setback of new buildings should be compatible
with the setback of existing adjacent buildings.
   (B)   Parking. Residential parking areas should be confined to the rear of
existing or new buildings. Parking spaces should be screened from view from the
public street by landscaping such as hedges, grade changes or low fences.
   (C)   Fences. Fences which allow some visual penetration of front yard space
are preferable to complete enclosure. Cyclone fences should not be used to
enclose front yards in the front half of side yards.
(Prior Code, § 12-1715)
§ 161.55 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   New street and landscape improvements, lighting, street furniture and signs
should be compatible with the character of the district. The historic urban
pattern of grid-plan streets should be retained.
(Prior Code, § 12-1716)
§ 161.56 SIGNS.
   Sign materials and design should complement the materials and design of the
building and adjacent buildings.
(Prior Code, § 12-1717)
CHAPTER 162: MINING
Section
   
162.01   Purpose
   
162.02   Definitions
   
162.03   Nuisance abatement
   
162.04   Existing codes
   
162.05   Permits
   
162.06   Operating and land rehabilitation practices
   
162.07   Operating conditions
 
   
162.99   Penalty
§ 162.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   For the health, welfare, safety and optimum land development, it is
necessary to regulate the removal of sand, gravel, rock, soil and other natural
deposits in the county.
   (B)   Other purposes include the following:
      (1)   To provide for the economical availability of sand, gravel, rock,
soil and other materials vital to the continued growth of the community;
      (2)   To establish reasonable and uniform limitations, safeguards and
controls in the community, for the future production of sand, gravel, rock,
soil and other natural resources;
      (3)   To control noise, dust, hazards, effect on adjacent property and
other factors related to the active mining or excavating operation;
      (4)   To provide for control of the extent of excavation compatible with
the surroundings; and for the restoration of the mining area after termination
of the removal operation to make the site compatible with the surroundings; and
      (5)   To control pollution by erosion or sedimentation.
(Prior Code, § 12-2301)
§ 162.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNUAL MINING PERMIT. The ANNUAL MINING PERMIT issued pursuant to this
chapter by the city. The ANNUAL MINING PERMIT shall be in addition to the
conditional use permit for the land covering the expected life of the mine as
required in Ch. 153 of this code.
   MINING.
      (1)   Include the excavation, removal or storage of sand, gravel, rock,
soil, clay and other natural deposits within the city. MINING shall not include
the excavation, removal or storage of rock, sand, dirt, gravel, clay or other
material for the purpose of the foundation, cellar or basement of some pending
structure, for which a permit has been issued and which is to be erected
immediately following the excavation, removal or storage.
      (2)   MINING shall not include the removal or moving of materials for
construction of roads, sewer lines, storm sewers, water mains, surface water
drainage, agriculture or conservation purposes and sod removal. Nor shall
MINING include the moving of dirt for landscaping purposes on a lot used or to
be used for residential purposes.
(Prior Code, § 12-2302)
§ 162.03 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Where unsafe conditions or conditions in violation of this chapter or
the permit exist, the conditions are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and the
Council may give notice to the operator or owner to abate the same.
   (B)   If after a reasonable time for repair of the condition, it still
exists, the Council may abate the nuisance and the costs of this work may be
taxed against the property and become a lien thereon.
(Prior Code, § 12-2303) Penalty, see §
162.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 90
§ 162.04 EXISTING CODES.
   The provisions of the model Mining Regulation Code adopted in this chapter
are in addition to and not in replacement of the provisions of
Ch. 153 of this code. Any provisions of the zoning ordinance relating to mining
shall remain in full force and effect except as they may be contrary to the
provisions of the model Mining Regulation Code.
(Prior Code, § 12-2304)
§ 162.05 PERMITS.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, company or
corporation to engage in mining within the city or for an owner to allow a
person to mine on his or her property, without first having obtained an annual
mining permit from the Council. Prior to commencing mining operations or
following one year of inactivity of any existing mining operations, a new or
amended annual mining permit shall be obtained from the Council. It is
recognized that mining is a land use permitted in the city in those areas zoned
as Industrial Districts, but then only by conditional use permit. It is also
understood that the annual mining permit as provided in this chapter is in
addition to the conditional use permit required for the land covering the
expected use of the mine and as provided in
Ch. 153 of this code.
      (2)   Persons conducting operations governed by this chapter and for
which this chapter requires a permit may continue operations, but within 60
days of the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter derives
shall make application for a permit, and failure to do so shall be a violation
of this chapter; however, on request and for cause, the Council may extend the
time for the initial application to 90 days. If application is not made within
the required time, all mining operations shall be terminated.
      (3)   The annual permit shall be issued only after a public hearing
following ten days posted and published notice and notification of adjoining
landowners and after final approval by the Council. Any issued permit shall be
posted by the applicant at the excavation site.
      (4)   A permit, when issued, shall be valid for one year unless
terminated pursuant to division (B) below.
(Prior Code, § 12-2321)
   (B)   Termination.
      (1)   The Council may terminate a mining permit for violation of this
chapter or a condition of the permit, or for other cause.
      (2)   To terminate a permit, the Council shall give notice of the
violation or other cause for the termination along with an order that the
condition be remedied. If the condition has not been repaired within a
reasonable time, and not less than two weeks, the Council shall hold a hearing
to determine whether the permit should be terminated.
      (3)   No mining shall take place after the permit is terminated pursuant
to this section.
(Prior Code, § 12-2322)
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   The application for the permit required in division (A) above shall
be filed with the City Administrator for presentation to the Council. The
currently required fee shall accompany each application. Application for
renewal permit must be made 45 days prior to the termination of the previous
permit. The application shall be made in the name of the operator of the mine
and the owner of the land to be mined.
      (2)   The application shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the operator and owner of the land;
         (b)   The correct legal description of the property where the mining
shall occur;
         (c)   Names of adjacent landowners including all those within a one-
half mile radius;
         (d)   A map of the property where the mining is to occur that clearly
indicates the property lines and the limits of the proposed excavation.
Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not more than
five feet except where the horizontal contour interval is 100 feet or more, a
two-foot vertical interval shall be shown on this map. Watercourses, marshes,
wooded areas, rock outcrops, power transmission poles and lines and other
significant features shall also be shown. U.S.G.S. datum shall be used for all
topographic mapping where feasible;
         (e)   The purpose of the removal, storage or excavation;
         (f)   The estimated time required to complete the removal, storage or
excavation;
         (g)   The plan of operation, including soil processing (any operation
other than direct mining and removal), soil stockpiling nature of the
processing and equipment, location of the plant, source of water, disposal of
water and reuse of water;
         (h)   The travel routes to and from the site;
         (i)   The plans for drainage, water and wind erosion control,
sedimentation and dust control; these plans shall be in conformity with the
recommendations of the county’s Soil and Water Conservation District office;
         (j)   A map or plat of the proposed pit or excavation showing the
confines or limits thereof together with the proposed finished elevations based
on 1929 sea level datum readings. Where the finished elevations prohibit
natural drainage out of the site, certified soil borings shall be included
through the proposed excavation;
         (k)   1.   A Comprehensive Plan showing that suitable provision will
be made for the restoration and reuse of the excavated area so that it will not
become a health or safety hazard or a nuisance, the plan to include anticipated
final elevations, slope and a plan for the return of subsoil and topsoil,
sufficient to support the interim and long-term uses.
            2.   Where the Council deems it practical and necessary, the plan
shall include adjoining related areas where excavations have previously been
made and remain under the control of the owner of the land on which the
excavating is to be done or under the control of the person other than the
owner to whom the permit is to be issued; and
         (l)   The applicant shall illustrate a staged activity or mining plan
and shall illustrate how each stage or section will be restored or reused prior
to beginning excavation or mining of the next stage of mining operations.
(Prior Code, § 12-2323) Penalty, see §
162.99
§ 162.06 OPERATING AND LAND REHABILITATION PRACTICES.
   The applicant shall abide by one of the two following operating and land
rehabilitation practices.
   (A)   Excavations resulting in the accumulation of substantial water areas
after rehabilitation must meet the following requirements.
      (1)   The water depth must not be less than three feet measured from the
low water mark.
      (2)   All banks shall be sloped to the water line at a slope which shall
not be steeper than four feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
      (3)   All banks shall be sodded, seeded with erosion retardant seed
mixtures and mulches or surfaced with soil of a quality at least equal to the
topsoil of land areas immediately surrounding and to a depth of at least six
inches.
      (4)   Topsoil as required by division (A)(3) above shall be planted with
trees, shrubs, legumes or grasses upon the parts of the area where revegetation
is possible; and as recommended by the soil conservation plan.
      (5)   Slopes on boundary areas shall not be steeper than four feet
horizontal to one foot vertical. No slope shall begin closer than 50 feet to
any property line.
      (6)   Maximum depth of the excavation may be requested by the Council.
   (B)   Excavations not resulting in water areas after rehabilitation but
which must be graded or backfilled, shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Grading or backfilling shall be made with nonnoxious, nonflammable
and noncombustible solids which will not cause leaching problems into
groundwater systems.
      (2)   The graded or backfilled area shall not collect or permit stagnant
water to remain therein.
      (3)   The peaks and depressions of the area shall be reduced to a gently
rolling topography of less than a five to one slope in substantial conformity
to the land area immediately surrounding and which will minimize erosion due to
rainfall.
      (4)   The graded or backfilled area shall be sodded, seeded with erosion
retardant seed mixtures and mulches or surfaced with soil of a quality at least
equal to the topsoil of land areas immediately surrounding, and to a depth of
at least 12 inches.
      (5)   The topsoil as required by division (B)(4) above shall be planted
with trees, shrubs, legumes or grasses upon the parts of the area where
revegetation is possible, consistent with the recommendations of the soil
conservation service.
      (6)   New slopes on boundary areas shall not be steeper than four feet
horizontal to one foot vertical. No slope or bank shall begin closer than 50
feet to the property line.
      (7)   The maximum depth of excavation may be regulated by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-2324) Penalty, see §
162.99
§ 162.07 OPERATING CONDITIONS.
   As a condition of the permit issuing, the Council shall require the
applicant or the owner of the premises to comply with the following:
   (A)   Fencing. Properly fence any pit or excavation.
      (1)   Where collections of water are one and one-half feet or more in
depth, all access to the collections of water may be ordered barred by
appropriate means.
      (2)   Where excavation slopes steeper than one foot vertical to one and
one-half feet horizontal exists for a period of five working days, access to
these slopes may be ordered barred by appropriate means.
   (B)   Slope of excavation. Slope the banks, and otherwise properly guard and
keep any pit or excavation in a condition as not to be dangerous because of
sliding or caving banks;
   (C)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Refrain from mining below grade closer than 30 feet to the boundary
of any zone where these operations are not permitted, or closer than 50 feet to
the boundary of an adjoining property line, unless the written consent of the
owner in fee of the property is first secured in writing and filed with the
City Administrator.
      (2)   Refrain from excavating below road grade closer than 50 feet to the
right-of-way line of any existing or platted street, road or highway, except
that excavating may be conducted within the limits in order to reduce the
elevation thereof in conformity to the existing or proposed street grades;
   (D)   Inspection fee. An annual inspection fee to cover the cost of periodic
inspection shall be paid to the city. The method of determining the inspection
fee shall follow one of the two schedules as outlined below. The schedule to be
followed shall be designated by the Council at the time the annual permit is
approved. The minimum annual inspection fee shall be $100.
      (1)   Schedule A. The annual inspection fee shall be based on the actual
and estimated costs which are incurred by the city in providing periodic
inspections and administering the provision of the annual permit. These costs
may include both actual cost incurred by the city, such as charges made by an
engineering firm, or for legal services and indirect, internal, actual and
computed costs incurred by the city such as mileage or computed charges for
time spent by city officials or their staff. The Council shall estimate these
charges at the time the annual permit is issued and the applicant shall make a
cash deposit with the city equal to their estimate when the annual permit is
issued. If at the expiration date of the annual permit there are any funds
still available, they will be refunded to the applicant or if the cost exceeds
the estimate the applicant shall pay the additional cost.
      (2)   Schedule B. The annual inspection fee shall be based on the amount
of material which is removed from the site. The charge shall be fixed at the
rate of one cent per cubic yard of material removed with a maximum fee of
$3,000. The Council, based on the estimates of the applicant, shall estimate
the annual inspection fee which shall be paid by the applicant according to a
payment schedule as determined by the Council. The applicant shall keep records
of all material removed from the site and these records shall be made available
to the Council for their review. On the expiration date of the annual permit,
the applicant shall submit to the Council a complete record of all material
removed for that year and pay any additional inspection fees as determined by
the Council, based on the fixed rate as set forth in this schedule.
   (E)   Survey. Furnish a survey by a registered surveyor showing the
boundaries of the property;
   (F)   Bond. Post a bond, cash deposits or other security, in a form and sum
as the Council may require, running to the city, conditioned to pay the city
the cost and expense of repairing any highways, street or other public ways and
the restoration of other sites within the city made necessary by the special
burden resulting from hauling and transporting thereon by the applicant in the
removal of rock, sand, dirt, gravel, clay or other material and conditioned
further to comply with all the requirements of this chapter and the particular
permit, and to save the city free and harmless from any and all suits or claims
for damage resulting from the negligent excavation, removal or storage of rock,
sand, dirt, gravel, clay or other material within the city boundary. Post a
bond for 125% of the cost of restoring the mined-out area, including but not
limited to soil, seed, sod and completed end use. Each mined-out area must be
restored before excavation operations may begin on the next segment or section;
   (G)   Insurance. Carry bodily injury and property damage, public liability
insurance in the amount of $100,000 for any one person and $300,000 for any
occurrence including blasting insurance naming the city as an additional
insured;
   (H)   Noise. Maintain and operate all equipment in a manner as to eliminate,
as far as is practicable, noises and vibrations, in accordance with state and
county standards;
   (I)   Hours of operation. Conduct operations only between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 5:30 p.m., except no trucking shall be allowed on Saturdays, Sundays
or holidays. In the case of public emergencies such as floods or whenever any
reasonable or necessary repairs to equipment are required, the Council may
allow an exception to this requirement;
   (J)   Dust and dirt. Construct, maintain and operate all equipment in a
manner as to minimize dust conditions. All operations shall meet the standards
of the state’s Pollution Control Agency;
   (K)   Appearance. Maintain buildings and plants in a safe condition in
accordance with acceptable industrial practice. Weeds shall be controlled;
   (L)   Removal of structures. Within a period of three months after the
termination of a sand and gravel operation, or within three months after
abandonment of an operation for a period of six months (or within three months
after expiration of a sand and gravel permit), dismantle or remove buildings,
structures and plants incidental to an operation; except that buildings,
structures and plants need not be dismantled and removed so long as they are
legally being used for the production or processing of sand and gravel or for
some other purpose permitted in the zone in which they are located;
   (M)   Lighting. Set forth the planned lighting of the area and any other
equipment or structures that will be installed or built;
   (N)   Sewer. Provide for adequate drainage to sanitary sewer and storm sewer
including lift stations, if necessary;
   (O)   Added provisions. Comply with other requirements as the Council from
time to time may find necessary for the health, safety, welfare and prevention
of nuisance in the area; and
   (P)   Variance. The standards which apply to these permits may be varied by
the Council according to the structure and size of the operation, and to
factors presented by the applicant.
(Prior Code, 12-2325)
§ 162.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
punishment in accordance with §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 12-2305)
CHAPTER 163: RIGHT-TO-FARM
Section
   
163.01   Title
   
163.02   Definitions
   
163.03   Nuisance
   
163.04   Disclosure in development permits
   
163.05   Disclosure to buyers
§ 163.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Right-to-Farm
Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 10-111)
§ 163.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL OPERATION. A facility and its appurtenances for the production
of crops, livestock, poultry, dairy products or poultry products, but not a
facility primarily engaged in processing agricultural products.
   ESTABLISHED DATE OF OPERATION. The date on which the agricultural operation
commenced. If the agricultural operation is subsequently expanded or
significantly altered, the established date of operation for each expansion or
alteration is deemed to be the date of commencement of the expanded or altered
operation. As used in this definition, EXPANDED OR SIGNIFICANTLY ALTERED means:
      (1)   An expansion by at least 25% in the amount of a particular crop
grown or the number of a particular kind of animal or livestock located on an
agricultural operation; or
      (2)   A distinct change in the kind of agricultural operation, as in
changing from one kind of crop, livestock, animal or product to another, but
not merely a change from one generally accepted agricultural practice to
another in producing the same crop or product.
(Prior Code, § 10-112)
§ 163.03 NUISANCE.
   (A)   An agricultural operation is not and shall not become a private or
public nuisance after two years from its established date of operation if the
operation was not a nuisance at its established date of operation.
   (B)   An agricultural operation is operating according to generally accepted
agricultural practices if it is located in an agriculturally zoned area and
complies with the provisions of all applicable federal and state statutes and
rules or any issued permits for the operation.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not apply:
      (1)   To a condition or injury which results from the negligent or
improper operation of an agricultural operation or from operations contrary to
commonly accepted agricultural practices or to applicable state or local laws,
ordinances, rules or permits;
      (2)   When an agricultural operation causes injury or direct threat of
injury to health or safety;
      (3)   To an animal feedlot facility with a swine capacity of 1,000 or
more animal units as defined in the rules of the Pollution Control Agency for
control of pollution from animal feedlots, or a cattle capacity of 2,500
animals or more; or
      (4)   To any prosecution for the crime of public nuisance as provided in
section 609.74 or to an action by a public authority to abate a particular
condition which is a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 10-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 163.04 DISCLOSURE IN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Prior to the issuance of any development permit for a use on agricultural
land, the owner of the property shall be required to sign a statement of
acknowledgment containing a right-to-farm disclosure, as set forth in §
163.05 of this code. The acknowledgment shall be on a form provided by the
Zoning Administrator and made available to the public. The Zoning Administrator
shall file development permit disclosure forms with the County Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 10-114)
§ 163.05 DISCLOSURE TO BUYERS.
   Upon any transfer of real property, subject to the acknowledgment required
in §
163.04 of this code, by sale, exchange, installment and sale contract, lease
with an option to purchase, any other option to purchase or ground lease
coupled with improvements, the transferor shall deliver to the prospective
transferee a right-to-farm disclosure statement signed by the transferee to be
filed with the County Recorder in conjunction with the transfer instrument.
(Prior Code, § 10-115)
CHAPTER 164: AIRCRAFT
Section
   
164.01   Definitions
   
164.02   Restriction of take-offs and landings within the city
§ 164.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. A vehicle for traveling through air, which is not either an
UNPOWERED VEHICLE or POWERED VEHICLE as defined in this section.
   POWERED VEHICLES. A powered ultra-light which has a maximum empty weight of
254 pounds; has a maximum fuel capacity of five U.S. gallons; is capable of
less than 55 knots airspeed at full power in level flight; and has a power-off
stall speed which does not exceed 24 knots (see FAA Advisory Circulars, AC 103-
7).
   UNPOWERED VEHICLES. An unpowered ultra-light under 155 pounds. Balloons and
gliders are UNPOWERED VEHICLES (see FAA AC 103-7).
(Prior Code, § 22-180)
§ 164.02 RESTRICTION OF TAKE-OFFS AND LANDINGS WITHIN THE CITY.
   The landing and taking-off of all aircraft is prohibited in all districts
within the city limits except for the following:
   (A)   An unpowered or powered vehicle, which does not exceed the maximum
noise levels as prescribed in §
153.097 of this code, provided an annual permit is obtained from the City
Administrator for the vehicle; and
   (B)   Emergency landings and take-offs of aircraft as allowed under FAA
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 22-181) (Ord. 44-2004, passed 8-17-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 165: COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES AND STRUCTURES
Section
   
165.01   Intent and purpose
   
165.02   Definitions
   
165.03   Permit and location requirements
   
165.04   Permit application requirements for conditional use permits for new
and modified towers and administrative permits for additional antennas on
existing mounts
   
165.05   Conditional use permits
§ 165.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   In order to accommodate the communication needs of residents and
business while protecting the public health and general welfare of the city,
the Council finds that the regulations set forth in this chapter are necessary
in order to establish predictable and balanced regulations for the siting and
screening of personal wireless communications equipment while protecting the
public against any adverse impacts on the city’s aesthetic and environmental
resources and the public welfare.
   (B)   Goals in adopting this chapter are as follows:
      (1)   Accommodate the desire of residents, travelers and businesses to
have high quality telecommunications technology without endangering public
health, safety and welfare;
      (2)   Minimize the adverse visual effects of personal wireless
communications service facilities through careful design and siting standards,
recognizing that local governmental units must look beyond their own
communities to protect the views of adjoining communities as well;
      (3)   Minimize the adverse environmental effects of personal wireless
communications facilities through careful design and siting standards; and
      (4)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through structural standards and setback requirements.
(Prior Code, § 12-2351) (Ord. 04-2009, passed 5-19-2009)
§ 165.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY CO-LOCATION. The placement of wireless communication antennas by two or
more service providers on a single tower, building or structure.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A facility for the provision of
wireless communications services, as defined by the Telecommunications Act of
1996.
   POWER TRANSMISSION LINE. Electrical lines designed for the bulk transfers of
electrical power at or greater than 230kV.
   TOWER. A monopole structure in excess of 35 feet in height intended
primarily for the purpose of mounting an antenna or to serve as an antenna. Any
structure intended for the same purpose but not built as a monopole is not
considered an acceptable TOWER under these provisions.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. Hardware that provides wireless
communication services including antennas, towers and all associated equipment.
(Prior Code, § 12-2352)
§ 165.03 PERMIT AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A wireless communication facility (other than for sending and
receiving amateur radio signals) shall only be allowed:
      (1)   Within the Industrial (I) Zoning District;
      (2)   As a co-location on an existing tower;
      (3)   On an existing structure as long as the tower is not more than ten
feet higher than the structure at the point where it is attached; and
      (4)   Within the easement of an existing power transmission line, as long
as the tower is not more than 20 feet higher than the power transmission line
at the point where it is attached.
   (B)   A building permit shall be required for all towers and antennas that
are subject to inspection by the Building Official to determine compliance with
the Building Code.
   (C)   No person shall erect a tower, antennas or accessory structures
without obtaining a conditional use permit, except as provided for in this
section. Procedures for obtaining a conditional use permit is as outlined in
Section 12-799 except that notification shall be to all property owners within
1,500 feet from all property lines and each governmental unit in the state and
Wisconsin from which the tower is likely to be visible.
   (D)   In reviewing an application for a conditional use permit for the
construction and maintenance of antennas, towers and accessory structures, the
City Council shall consider the advice and recommendations of the Planning
Commission, city staff and all reviewing authorities as well as its conformance
with:
      (1)   The Comprehensive Plan and this chapter;
      (2)   Applicable state or federal law; and
      (3)   The effect of the proposed tower upon the health, safety,
convenience and general welfare of occupants of surrounding land and the
effects on property values in surrounding areas.
   (E)   The City Council may impose reasonable restrictions or conditions on a
conditional use permit for a tower to achieve the goals of this chapter. These
conditions may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Requiring co-location of proposed antennas on existing towers or
structures when feasible;
      (2)   Requiring construction practices to ensure that the installation
and maintenance of the tower will not create a safety hazard or damage to the
property or other persons;
      (3)   Requiring protections against unauthorized climbing to be
constructed and maintained;
      (4)   Requiring plans and/or financial securities necessary to ensure
that the tower, if discontinued from use or abandoned, is removed in an
appropriate and timely manner;
      (5)   Requiring techniques to minimize the visual impact of the proposed
tower, once constructed;
      (6)   Prohibiting the placement of signs, lights or other illuminating
devices on the tower, except when required by local, state or federal law or
regulation;
      (7)   Required inspections at regular intervals to ensure compliance with
all requirements; and
      (8)   Requiring design standards to protect the migratory patterns of
birds or other wildlife.
   (F)   The use of any existing tower which becomes nonconforming as a result
of this chapter may be continued. If the tower needs replacement, a new
conditional use permit is required.
   (G)   A conditional use permit shall be required for the addition of a new
antenna on an existing mount.
   (H)   Permitting is not required for:
      (1)   Adjustment, repair or replacement of the elements of an antenna
array affixed to a tower or antenna provided that the replacement does not
reduce any safety factor, remains consistent with previously approved permits
and is consistent with this code;
      (2)   Antennas and/or towers erected temporarily for test purposes or for
emergency communications. No temporary cell sites are permitted except in the
case of equipment failure, equipment testing or in the case of an emergency
situation as authorized by the Sheriff. Use of temporary mobile cell sites for
testing purposes shall be limited to the 24 hours; use of temporary mobile cell
sites for equipment failure or in the case of emergency situations shall be
limited to a term of 30 days. These limits can be extended by the city for good
cause shown; and
      (3)   Facilities, located in any zone, erected for sending and receiving
amateur radio (also known as ham radio) signals.
(Prior Code, § 12-2353) (Ord. 11-2005, passed 7-19-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 165.04 PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS FOR NEW
AND MODIFIED TOWERS AND ADMINISTRATIVE PERMITS FOR ADDITIONAL ANTENNAS ON
EXISTING MOUNTS.
   (A)   General filing requirements.
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant and co-applicant as
well as any agents of either;
      (2)   Co-applicants include the landowner, licensed carrier(s) and
tenants; and
      (3)   Original signatures of an officer of each applicant and co-
applicant.
   (B)   Location filing requirements.
      (1)   Street address of proposed antenna location;
      (2)   Tax map and parcel number of proposed antenna location; and
      (3)   Zoning district designation of proposed antenna location.
   (C)   Site filing requirements. A certified survey is required and includes
the following:
      (1)   Property lines for the subject property;
      (2)   Property lines of all properties adjacent to the subject property
within 100 feet;
      (3)   Proposed location of antenna, mount and equipment shelter(s);
      (4)   Location of all roads, public and private, on the subject property
and on all adjacent properties within 1,500 feet including driveways proposed
to serve the wireless communication service facilities;
      (5)   Distances at grade from the proposed wireless communication service
facilities to each building on the vicinity plan;
      (6)   All proposed changes to the existing property, including grading,
vegetation removal and temporary or permanent roads and driveways; and
      (7)   Representations, dimensioned and to scale, of the proposed mount,
antennas, equipment shelter(s), cable runs, parking areas and any other
construction or development attendant to the proposed wireless communication
service facilities.
   (D)   Sight lines and photographs.
      (1)   A sight line representation depicting on a map the area(s) from
which the top of the wireless communication service facilities would be
visible;
      (2)   Existing (before condition) photographs. Photographs taken from the
periphery of the site (north, south, east and west); and
      (3)   Proposed (after condition). Each of the existing condition
photographs shall have the proposed wireless communication service facilities
superimposed on it to show what will be seen after construction.
   (E)   Siting elevations, or views at-grade from the north, south, east and
west for a 50-foot radius around the proposed wireless communication service
facilities. Elevations shall be at either one-quarter inch equals one foot or
one-eighth inch equals one foot scale and show the following:
      (1)   Antennas, mounts and equipment shelter(s), with total elevation
dimensions;
      (2)   Security barrier. If the security barrier will block views of
wireless communication service facilities, the barrier drawing shall be cut
away to show the view behind the barrier;
      (3)   Any and all structures on the subject property;
      (4)   Existing trees and shrubs at current height and proposed trees and
shrubs at proposed height at time of installation, with approximate elevations
dimensioned; and
      (5)   Grade changes, or cuts and fills, to be shown as original grade and
new grade line, with two-foot contours.
   (F)   Design filing requirements. Equipment brochures for the proposed
wireless communication service facilities such as:
      (1)   Manufacturer’s specifications or trade journal reprints shall be
provided for the antennas, mounts, equipment shelters, cables as well as cable
runs and security barrier, if any;
      (2)   Materials of the proposed wireless communication service facilities
specified by generic type and specific treatment (e.g., anodized aluminum,
stained wood, painted fiberglass and the like). These shall be provided for the
antennas, mounts, equipment shelters, cables as well as cable runs and security
barrier, if any;
      (3)   Colors of the proposed wireless communication facility represented
by a color board showing actual colors proposed. Colors shall be provided for
the antennas, mounts, equipment shelters, cables and security barrier, if any;
      (4)   Dimensions of the proposed wireless communication service facility
specified for all three directions: height, width and breadth. These shall be
provided for the antennas, mounts, equipment shelters and security barrier, if
any; and
      (5)   Landscape plan including existing trees and shrubs and those
proposed to be added, identified by size of specimen at installation and
species.
   (G)   Within 30 days of filing an application for a conditional use permit
for a tower, the applicant shall arrange for a balloon or crane test at the
proposed site to illustrate the height of the proposed wireless communications
service facility. The date, time and location of this test shall be:
      (1)   Advertised in the newspaper of general circulation serving the
city;
      (2)   Sent by return receipt mail to the same governmental units
determined in §
165.03 of this code, and to the owners of the parcels of property within one
mile of the proposed site at least 14 days, but not more than 21 days prior to
the test; and
      (3)   If lighting of the site is proposed, the applicant shall submit an
engineer’s computer-generated point-to-point printout indicating the horizontal
foot-candle levels at grade within the property to be developed and 25 feet
beyond the property lines. The printout shall indicate the locations and types
of luminaries proposed.
   (H)   Noise filing requirements.
      (1)   The applicant shall provide a statement listing the existing and
maximum future projected measurements of noise from the proposed wireless
communication service facilities for the following:
         (a)   Existing or ambient noise;
         (b)   Existing plus proposed wireless communication service
facilities: maximum estimate of noise from the proposed wireless communication
service facilities plus the existing noise environment; and
         (c)   This statement shall be certified and signed by an acoustical
engineer, stating that noise measurements are accurate and meet the noise
standards of this chapter.
   (I)   Radiofrequency radiation (RFR) filing requirements.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit to the city verification that they are
operating within the parameters of the FCC requirements for RFR limits.
      (2)   The applicant shall forward all correspondence with the FCC for the
city files.
   (J)   Insurance and licensing filing requirements.
      (1)   A copy of each applicant’s and tenant’s FCC licenses. If the
applicant is not an FCC licensee, submit a copy of the executed leases from
each FCC licensee proposing to locate wireless facilities at the site;
      (2)   A certificate of insurance demonstrating that the applicant has a
minimum of $1,000,000 in general liability insurance covering any liability
arising out of its construction or operation of the wireless telecommunication
facility;
      (3)   A copy of an executed lease requiring that the applicant to remove
all above-ground wireless telecommunication facilities no later than 90 days
after the cessation of operations;
      (4)   A copy of an executed standard facility maintenance/removal
agreement; and
      (5)   Evidence that the FCC has reviewed and approved the application for
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.
(Prior Code, § 12-2354) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 165.05 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   In addition to the submittal requirements required elsewhere in this
chapter, applications for conditional use permits for new towers and antennas
shall be accompanied by the following information:
   (A)   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer which:
      (1)   Describes the tower height and design including a cross-section and
elevation;
      (2)   Certifies the tower’s compliance with structural and electrical
standards; describes the tower’s capacity, including the potential number and
type of antennas that it can accommodate;
      (3)   Specifies the distance to any DNR protected lake or river, the St.
Croix River, any scenic road and any boundary of a park.
   (B)   Each application shall include a five-year facility plan. The city
will maintain an inventory of all existing and proposed wireless communication
service facilities and all carriers shall provide the following information in
each five-year plan. The plan must be updated with each submittal:
      (1)   Written description of type of consumer services each company/
carrier will provide to its customers over the next five years (cellular,
personal communication services, specialized mobile radio, paging private radio
or other anticipated communications technology);
      (2)   List of all existing sites, existing sites to be upgraded or
replaced and proposed cell sites within the city for these services by the
applicant and each co-applicant; and
      (3)   Provide a presentation size map of the city, which shows the five-
year plan for cell sites, or if individual properties are not known, the
geographic service areas of the cell sites.
   (C)   Information provided as part of the five-year facility plan that is a
trade secret pursuant to M.S. § 13.37, as it may be amended from time to time,
shall be classified as non-public data.
(Prior Code, § 12-2355)
CHAPTER 166: PRESERVATION AND LAND CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENTS
Section
   
166.01   Scope
   
166.02   General provisions
   
166.03   Purpose
   
166.04   Permitted uses
   
166.05   General standards for approval
   
166.06   Density, frontage on a public street and length of cul-de-sac
requirements
   
166.07   Coordination with subdivision regulations
   
166.08   Pre-application meeting
   
166.09   General development plan
   
166.10   Final development plan
   
166.11   Enforcement of development schedule
   
166.12   Conveyance and maintenance of undeveloped parcel
   
166.13   Standards for undeveloped parcel
   
166.14   Review and amendments
§ 166.01 SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to Preservation and Land Conservation Developments
(PLCD) in the Agricultural (AG) Zoning District.
(Prior Code, § 12-2371) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014)
§ 166.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   A PLCD is a tract of land that is developed as a unit under single or
unified ownership or controls. A Preservation and Land Conservation Development
may be allowed in the AG Zoning District to preserve prime agricultural land,
woodland, wildlife habitat, vistas, groundwater recharge areas, areas with
sensitive soils or geological limitations and areas identified in the
Comprehensive Plan. Uses not otherwise allowed in the zoning district are
prohibited within a planned development unless specifically permitted by
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-2372) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 166.03 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To permit subdivisions in the Agricultural Zoning District which
require the construction of a new public street;
   (B)   To encourage a more creative and efficient development of land and its
improvements through the preservation of agricultural land, natural features
and amenities than is possible under the more restrictive application of zoning
requirements, while at the same time, meeting the standards and purposes of the
Comprehensive Plan and preserving the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city;
   (C)   To preserve open space, to preserve the natural resources of the site
and to preserve wildlife habitat and corridors;
   (D)   To facilitate the economical provision of streets and public
utilities; and
   (E)   To allow the transfer of development rights (density) within a
subdivision in order to preserve agricultural land, open space, natural
features and amenities.
(Prior Code, § 12-2373) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014)
§ 166.04 PERMITTED USES.
   The permitted uses are:
   (A)   Those uses that are permitted in the underlying zoning district; and
   (B)   Subdivisions that require the construction of a new public street in
the AG Zoning District.
(Prior Code, § 12-2374) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014)
§ 166.05 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   A conditional use permit shall be required for all preservation and
land conservation developments. The city may approve the preservation and land
conservation development only if it finds that the development satisfies all of
the following standards.
      (1)   The preservation and land conservation development is consistent
with the Comprehensive Plan of the city.
      (2)   The preservation and land conservation development is an effective
and unified treatment of the development possibilities on the project site and
the development plan provides for the preservation of unique natural amenities.
      (3)   The preservation and land conservation development can be planned
and developed to harmonize with any existing or proposed development in the
areas surrounding the project site. This includes working with the city
regarding the layout of the open space parcel to protect sensitive natural
resources and natural features and to make connections with adjacent open space
with significant natural features, which could include natural and wildlife
corridors.
      (4)   Pre-development seeding with a native prairie grass/wildflower mix
shall be provided on all lots and on the undeveloped parcel.
      (5)   The developer shall enter into a developer’s agreement with the
city regarding the installation of required improvements, and shall provide
financial guarantees as required in
Ch. 160 of this code, including §
160.100 of this code. The developer’s agreement shall include sufficient
authority to enable the city to take timely enforcement action, such as an
immediate cease and desist order, in addition to, or as part of, a declaration
of default with default remedies.
      (6)   The homeowner’s association restrictive covenants shall contain a
provision that in the event the homeowner’s association becomes insolvent or
ceases operating control shall at its option be transferred to the city or
another method of succession shall be dictated by the city.
      (7)   The homeowner’s association documents shall contain a waiver of
assessment appeal running in favor of the city.
      (8)   Any provisions in the homeowner’s association restrictive covenants
allowing changes in lots shall be in compliance with the city’s requirements.
      (9)   Any covenant amendment provisions in the homeowner’s restrictive
covenants permitting changes after a certain number of years have passed shall
be in compliance with restrictions on future subdivision of PLCD lots and other
provisions of the city’s ordinances.
      (10)   Any public walking paths shall be included in the final
development plan.
      (11)   The city shall be a named insured on the homeowner association
insurance policy and the policy shall cover those risks identified by the city,
including but not limited to coverage for personal injuries and any other
losses occurring as a result of the public use of the walking trails on the
conservation area.
      (12)   The homeowner’s association shall be required to indemnify and
hold the city harmless from all losses incurred as a result of the public’s use
of the conservation area walking trails.
      (13)   Residential lots shall be subject to restrictive covenants in
favor of the other lot owners in the development and the city requiring that
60% of each lot remain planted in native mural prairie, and forbs, shrubs and
trees that fit the local eco-type, and appropriate language shall be inserted
in the homeowners association documents to ensure enforcement of the
maintenance of the lots in accordance with these requirements.
      (14)   The final plat application shall include estimated initial costs
including but not limited to grading, surface water controls and roads and also
a final cost estimate, both of which shall be subject to approval by the city’s
engineers.
      (15)   No final plat approval shall occur until both the developer’s
agreement and the tri-party conservation easement agreement between the
developer, the city and the state’s land trust has been executed by all
parties.
      (16)   All new streets shall be named in accordance with the county’s
street naming conventions.
   (B)   The tract is a minimum of 80 contiguous acres in size and that all of
the following conditions exist.
      (1)   The proposal better adapts itself to the physical and aesthetic
setting of the site and with the surrounding land uses than could be developed
using strict standards and land uses allowed within the underlying zoning
district.
      (2)   The proposal would benefit the area surrounding the project to a
greater degree than development allowed within the underlying zoning district.
      (3)   The proposal would provide land use and/or site design flexibility
while enhancing site or building aesthetics to achieve an overall higher
quality of development than would otherwise occur in the underlying zoning
district.
      (4)   The proposal would ensure the concentration of open space into more
workable or usable areas and would preserve the natural resources of the site
more effectively than would otherwise occur in the underlying zoning district.
   (C)   At least 50% of the total tract is preserved as an undeveloped parcel.
   (D)   A mandatory environmental assessment worksheet is required to be filed
with the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-2375) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014; Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 166.06 DENSITY, FRONTAGE ON A PUBLIC STREET AND LENGTH OF CUL-DE-SAC
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The average density over the proposed PLCD shall not exceed the
maximum density permitted in the underlying zoning district. Although a PLCD
allows a maximum of four lots per quarter-quarter section, a developer cannot
independently include a portion of a quarter-quarter section in a PLCD unless
the developer owns a minimum of 30 acres in the quarter-quarter section.
Otherwise, either all property owners in a quarter-quarter section are required
to make application for and sign an approved plat, or the developer is required
to obtain and record a release from the other owner(s) allowing the subdivision
of the developer’s portion of the quarter-quarter section.
   (B)   The maximum length of cul-de-sacs may be exceeded to accommodate
curvilinear streets and other design elements that tend to preserve the rural
character or other resources within the PLCD. This language does not allow a
proportional addition to the number of lots allowed on a longer cul-de-sac.
   (C)   Reference §
160.006 of this code for the definition of a cul-de-sac street.
(Prior Code, § 12-2376) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014; Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 166.07 COORDINATION WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that subdivision review be carried
out simultaneously with the review of a planned development under this chapter.
   (B)   The plans required under this chapter must be submitted in a form that
will satisfy the requirements of §§
160.035 through
160.041 of this code for the preliminary and final plats.
   (C)   Parcels which contain their maximum permitted density or have been
previously subdivided to their permitted density may be included in a PLCD but
may not be included in density calculations or land preservation minimum
requirements. Parcels may be included in the PLCD if they allow for the best
conservation design for the PLCD as determined by the city.
   (D)   Park dedication requirements shall be in addition to and not in lieu
of the preservation of at least 50% of the total tract as an undeveloped
parcel. The city may waive all or a portion of the park dedication requirement
if the city finds that the waiver is in the city’s interest.
(Prior Code, § 12-2377) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014; Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 166.08 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING.
   (A)   Prior to the submission of any plan to the Planning Commission, the
potential applicant is encouraged to meet with the City Administrator to
discuss the contemplated project relative to community development objectives
for the area in question and to learn the procedural steps and exhibits
required. This includes the procedural steps for a conditional use permit and a
preliminary plat.
   (B)   The potential applicant may submit a simple sketch plan at this stage
for informal review and discussion. The potential applicant is urged to seek
the advice and assistance of the city staff to facilitate the informal review
of the simple sketch plan.
   (C)   The pre-application meeting process is entirely optional for the
potential applicant and does not constitute an application within the meaning
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 12-2378) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014; Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 166.09 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   An applicant shall make an application for a conditional use permit
following the procedural steps as set forth in §
153.027 of this code.
   (B)   In addition to the criteria and standards set forth in §
153.027 of this code for the granting of conditional use permits, the following
additional findings shall be made before the approval of the outline
development plan.
      (1)   The proposed PLCD is in conformance with the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   The uses proposed will not have an undue and adverse impact on the
reasonable enjoyment of neighboring property and will not be detrimental to
potential surrounding uses.
      (3)   Each phase of the proposed development, as it is proposed to be
completed, is of sufficient size, composition and arrangement that its
construction, marketing and operation are feasible as a complete unit, and that
provision and construction of dwelling units and common open space are balanced
and coordinated.
      (4)   The PLCD will not create an excessive burden on parks, schools,
streets and other public facilities and utilities that serve or are proposed to
serve the district.
      (5)   The proposed total development is designed in a manner as to form a
desirable and unified environment within its own boundaries.
   (C)   The following exhibits shall be submitted to the City Administrator by
the proposed developer as a part of the application for a conditional use
permit:
      (1)   An explanation of the character of the proposed preservation and
land conservation development and the manner in which it has been planned to
take advantage of the preservation and land conservation development
regulations;
      (2)   A statement of the present ownership of all the land included
within the proposed preservation and land conservation development and a list
of property owners within 500 feet of the outer boundaries of the property;
      (3)   A general indication of the expected schedule of development
including progressive phasing and time schedule;
      (4)   A map giving the legal description of the property including
approximate total acreage and also indicating existing property lines and
dimensions, ownership of all parcels, platting, easements, street rights-of-
way, utilities, buildings and use for the property and for the area 500 feet
beyond;
      (5)   Natural features maps or maps of the property and area 500 feet
beyond showing contour lines at no more than two-foot intervals, drainage
patterns, wetlands, vegetation, soil and subsoil conditions;
      (6)   A map indicating proposed land uses including housing units and
types, vehicular and pedestrian circulation and open space uses;
      (7)   Full description as to how all necessary governmental services will
be provided to the development;
      (8)   An engineering report presenting results of percolation tests and
soil analysis of the site;
      (9)   Any additional information requested by the City Administrator,
Planning Commission and City Council that might be required for clarification
of the proposed project; and
      (10)   Twenty-five copies of all required information, as well as an
electronic copy, shall be submitted.
   (D)   The applicant shall also submit a preliminary plat and all the
necessary documentation as required under Ch. 160 of this code for all or that
portion of the project to be platted. For purposes of administrative
simplification, the public hearings required for the conditional use permit and
preliminary plat may be combined into one hearing or may be held concurrently.
(Prior Code, § 12-2379) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014; Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 166.10 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the approval of the general development plan
with recommended modifications, if any, and the preliminary plat, the applicant
shall file with the City Administrator a final development plan containing in
final form the information required in the general development plan plus any
changes recommended by the Planning Commission and the City Council as a result
of the public hearing. The applicant shall also submit a final plat for that
entire portion to be platted.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall submit the final development plan and the
final plat to the Planning Commission for review.
   (C)   The final development plan and the final plat shall conform to the
general development plan and preliminary plat plus any recommended changes by
the Planning Commission or City Council to the general development plan and
preliminary plat.
   (D)   The City Council shall review the final development plan and final
plat. If the final development plan is approved by the City Council, the City
Administrator shall issue a conditional use permit to the applicant.
   (E)   The applicant(s) shall grant a conservation easement which shall run
with the land in perpetuity to the city, and the state’s land trust (or similar
independent third party approved by the city), which restricts the development
rights on the undeveloped parcel(s), within the PLCD and the land cover and use
approved by the city as a part of this PLCD.
      (1)   The conservation easement shall include the following elements:
         (a)   The identification of the natural, scenic and open space
qualities of the protected property that are to be protected as “conservation
values”;
         (b)   A description of the conservation purpose of the easement;
         (c)   A listing of specific restrictions on the use of the property;
and
         (d)   Habitat management according to a habitat management plan.
      (2)   The state’s land trust (or similar independent third party approved
by the city) shall review and approve the HOA covenants as they relate to the
undeveloped parcel and shall provide a written statement that they will agree
to the conservation easement over the land prior to final PLCD approval.
(Prior Code, § 12-2380) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014; Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 166.11 ENFORCEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE.
   The construction and provisions of all of the common open spaces and public
and recreational facilities that are shown on the final development plan must
proceed at the same phase as the construction of dwelling units. At least once
every six months following the approval of the final development plan, the City
Administrator shall review all of the building permits issued for the planned
development and examine the construction which has taken place on the site. If
he or she shall find that the rate of construction of dwelling units is greater
than the rate at which common open space and public and recreational facilities
have been constructed and provided, he or she shall forward this information to
the City Council, which may revoke the PLCD permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-2381) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014)
§ 166.12 CONVEYANCE AND MAINTENANCE OF UNDEVELOPED PARCEL.
   (A)   All land shown on the final development plan as an undeveloped parcel
must be conveyed to a homeowners association or similar organization provided
in an indenture establishing an association or similar organization for the
maintenance of the planned development. The undeveloped parcel must be conveyed
to the homeowners association or similar organization subject to covenants to
be approved by the City Council which restrict the undeveloped parcel to the
uses specified on the final development plan and which provide for the
maintenance of the undeveloped parcel in a manner which assures it continuing
use for its intended purpose. The undeveloped parcel shall also be subject to a
conservation easement as described in §
166.10(E) of this code.
   (B)   If a homeowners association is created, the applicant shall submit
plans at the time of final plan of development and documents which explain:
      (1)   Ownership and membership requirements;
      (2)   Articles of incorporation and bylaws;
      (3)   Time at which the developer turns the association over to the
homeowners; and
      (4)   Specific listing of items owned in common including items as roads,
recreation facilities, parking, common open space grounds and utilities.
(Prior Code, § 12-2382) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014; Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 166.13 STANDARDS FOR UNDEVELOPED PARCEL.
   No open area may be approved as common undeveloped parcel under the
provisions of this chapter unless it meets the following standards.
   (A)   The location, shape, size and character of the undeveloped parcel must
be suitable for the planned development.
   (B)   The undeveloped parcel must be used for amenity or recreational
purposes. The uses authorized for the undeveloped parcel must be appropriate to
the scale and character of the planned development, considering its size,
density, expected population, topography and the number and type of dwellings
to be provided.
   (C)   The undeveloped parcel must be suitably improved for its intended use
but common space containing natural features worthy of preservation may be left
unimproved. The buildings, structures and improvements which are permitted in
the undeveloped parcel must be appropriate to the uses which are authorized for
the undeveloped parcel and must conserve and enhance the amenities of the
undeveloped parcel having regard to its topography and unimproved condition.
   (D)   Outlots are not permitted in subdivisions having cul-de-sac streets,
with the exception of the undeveloped parcel required by a PLCD that is made
subject to a conservation easement.
(Prior Code, § 12-2383) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014; Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 166.14 REVIEW AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall review all PLCDs within the city at least
once each year and shall make a report to the City Council on the status of the
development in each of the PLCD Districts. If the City Administrator finds that
the development has not commenced within one year after the original approval
of the conditional use for the PLCD, the City Administrator may recommend that
the City Council revoke the conditional use permit as set forth in §
153.027 of this code. Prior to cancellation or revocation of this permit, the
City Council shall hold a public hearing at which time all interested parties
will be given an opportunity to be heard.
   (B)   For additional phases of the PLCD, if within two years of completion
of the prior phase, the project has not progressed, the City Administrator may
recommend that the City Council determine what action will be taken with the
remainder of the project. Prior to determining the outcome of the PLCD, the
Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing at which time all interested
parties will be given an opportunity to be heard.
   (C)   Minor changes in the location, placement and heights of the buildings
or structures may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator if required by
engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the final plan was
approved.
   (D)   Approval of the Planning Commission and City Council shall be required
for other changes such as rearrangement of lots, blocks and building tracts.
Those changes shall be consistent with the purpose and intent of the approved
final development plan.
   (E)   Any amendment to the PLCD shall require the same procedures as for the
application for an Conditional use permit as set forth in this chapter.
   (F)   The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be in full force and
effect from the date of publication.
(Prior Code, § 12-2384) (Ord. 06-2008, passed 4-15-2008; Ord. 02-2014, passed
5-20-2014; Ord. 01-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ZONING
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             - -         Granting an electric service franchise for a period
                          of 20 years to Northern States Power Company.
                          (Prior Code, Ch. 24, Art. II)
-             - -         Granting a nonexclusive gas franchise for a period of
                          25 years to the Minnesota Gas Company.
                          (Prior Code, Ch. 24, Art. III, Div. 2)
                          Granting a nonexclusive gas franchise for a period of
-             - -         20 years to Northern States Power Company, dba Xcel
                          Energy.
                          (Prior Code, Ch. 24, Art. III, Div. 3)
04-2024       6-18-2024   Granting an electric service franchise for a period
                          of 20 years to Northern States Power Company.
05-2024       6-18-2024   Granting a gas franchise for a period of 20 years to
                          Northern States Power Company.
06-2024       6-18-2024   Implementing an electric service franchise fee on
                          Northern States Power Company.
07-2024       6-18-2024   Implementing a gas service franchise fee on Northern
                          States Power Company.
                          Granting a nonexclusive gas energy franchise for a
11-2024       10-15-2024  period of 20 years to Centerpoint Energy Resources
                          Corp. dba Centerpoint Energy Minnesota Gas.
12-2024       10-15-2024  Implementing a gas energy franchise fee on
                          Centerpoint Energy Minnesota Gas.
 
TABLE II: ZONING
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
04-2017       7-24-2017      Placing temporary moratorium on zoning
                             applications for certain use classifications.
                             Placing temporary moratorium on permit
                             applications for non- residential and non-
02-2020       2-18-2020      agricultural principal structures in the
                             Agricultural, AG Preserve and Rural Residential
                             Zones.
07-2020       8-18-2020      Extending Ord. 02-2020, placing a temporary
                             moratorium on permit applications.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites                 Code Section
13                         31.04
13.01 et seq.              31.04
13.37                      165.05
Ch. 13D                    31.04,
                           32.43
14.57 through 14.69        110.33,
                           110.99
15.99                      153.027,
                           153.028
16B.62                     150.04
16B.70                     150.04
18C                        91.04
18C.001 through 18C.80     91.09
84                         71.09
84.08895                   92.38
84.415                     157.10
84.804(6)                  Ch. 71
84.87(3)                   Ch. 71
84.872                     71.12
84.90                      71.06
93.44 through 93.51        156.008
97A                        93.60
97A.015(55)                93.61
97B                        130.01
103A                       91.02
103B                       158.01
103D                       158.01
103F                       159.001
103F.201 through 103F.227  156.001
                           153.101,
103G                       159.033,
                           159.106
103G.005, subdivision 14   159.015
103G.005, subdivision 15   153.005,
                           158.09
103G.005, subdivision 15a  156.008,
                           156.056
103G.245                   156.056,
                           157.10
115.01, subdivision 8      154.02
115.03                     154.02
115.03 subdivision 5c      158.01
115.07                     154.02
115.071                    50.99
115.55                     154.02
115A                       50.05
115A.93 through 115A.9302  50.03
116.072                    50.99
144.50                     153.004
157.16                     110.03
157.16, subdivision 3d     110.03
168.011, subdivision 22    71.01
168.10                     90.17
168B.01 et seq.            Ch. 90
                           70.01,
169                        70.16,
                           71.32,
                           71.34
169.04                     Ch. 70,
                           Ch. 71
169.04(1)                  Ch. 70
                           Ch. 70,
169.045                    Ch. 71,
                           71.30,
                           164.02
169.045, subdivision 7     71.34
169.522                    71.34
169.68                     153.097
216B.1641                  153.167,
                           153.171
216C.06, subdivision 14    153.026
216E.001 through 216E.18   153.145
238                        151.045
273.111                    153.004
299C                       153.115
299C.67, subdivision 4     153.115
306.15                     94.11
307.08                     156.008
326B.101 through 326B.194  150.01
326B.103                   153.034
326B.121, subdivision 2    150.04
326B.133                   153.005
327.31, subdivision 3      153.005,
                           153.099
                           110.01,
                           110.02,
340A                       110.20,
                           110.23,
                           110.33,
                           110.99
340A.101                   110.03,
                           110.22
340A.401, subdivision 1    110.22
340A.404, subdivision 4a   110.22
340A.404, subdivision 4(b) 110.22
340A.404, subdivision 5    110.22
340A.408, subdivision 2(b) 110.22
340A.408, subdivision 3    110.22
340A.408, subdivision 5    110.23
340A.409                   110.25
340A.413, subdivision 1    110.20
340A.414                   110.08
340A.414, subdivision 6    110.22
340A.504                   110.06
340A.504, subdivision 3    110.22
340A.504, subdivision 3(b) 110.22
340A.509                   110.02
340A.801                   110.25
342.01                     130.30
346                        Ch. 93
346.16 et seq.             93.02
346.35 et seq.             93.06
346.50 et seq.             93.44
347.04                     93.04
347.14                     93.24
347.18                     93.21
347.19                     93.24
347.32                     93.07
349.11 et seq.             112.01
349.12                     112.05
349.12, subdivision 25     112.05
412                        31.01
412.101 through 412.151    31.01
412.191 through 412.231    31.01
412.221, subdivision 18    150.38
412.221, subdivision 19    111.02
412.221, subdivision 21    Ch. 93,
                           93.42
412.221, subdivision 22    50.05
412.221, subdivision 23    90.04
412.491                    Ch. 92
415.11                     30.01
471.895                    31.04
429.081                    158.46
429.101                    150.20,
                           151.013
437.02                     111.02
443.015                    50.05
                           91.02,
                           156.001,
462                        156.008,
                           156.022,
                           158.01,
                           159.001
462.35                     160.019
462.351 through 462.364    32.01,
                           32.07
462.357, subdivision 3     32.08
462.357, subdivision 4     32.08
462.358                    160.999
462.3593                   153.099
462.3593, subdivision 9    153.099
471.193, subdivision 6     32.39
471.1941.351               160.019
471.633                    130.01
471.92                     151.048
500.30                     153.168
500.30, subdivision 3      153.167
505                        156.094,
                           160.002
505.02, subdivision 1      156.092
508.47                     153.005
561.01 et seq.             90.04
609.01 et seq.             Ch. 130
609.06                     130.01
609.65                     130.01
617.242                    113.99
617.242, subdivision 1     113.36
617.242, subdivision 2     113.36
617.242, subdivision 3     113.36
617.242, subdivision 4     113.36
617.242, subdivision 6     113.36
617.242, subdivision 7     113.36,
                           113.99
631.48                     10.99
645.44, subdivision 8a     156.008,
                           156.056
1034G                      156.052
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Cites Code Section
Minn. Rules Cites                                    Code Section
1300.2100                                            150.03
1305.0011                                            150.02
1311.0502 subpart 502                                32.62
1341.0406 A117.1, 406, through 1341.0410 A117.1, 410 156.052
4715                                                 154.02
6105.0351 through 6105.0550                          157.02
6105.0410                                            157.08
6105.0410, subpart 2                                 157.08
6105.0420                                            157.09
6105.0430                                            157.10
6105.0440                                            157.11
6105.0510, subpart 2                                 157.03
6105.0530                                            157.08
6105.0540                                            157.61
                                                     91.02,
6120.2500 through 6120.3900                          156.001,
                                                     156.003,
                                                     158.01
6120.3200, subdivision 3                             156.037
6120.3300                                            156.035
6120.5000 through 6120.6200                          156.052,
                                                     159.061
7030                                                 153.097
7030.0010 through 7030.0080                          153.097
7050.0186, subpart 1a(B)                             158.09
7077.0105, subpart 41b                               153.005,
                                                     158.09
7080                                                 156.062
7090.0080, subpart 4                                 153.005,
                                                     158.09
8410                                                 158.01
8420                                                 158.01
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code 2022 Code
2-36       30.01
2-76       31.01
2-101      31.02
2-111      31.03
2-131      32.01
2-132      32.02
2-133      32.03
2-134      32.04
2-135      32.05
2-136      32.06
2-137      32.07
2-138      32.08
2-139      32.09
2-140      32.10
2-141      32.11
2-142      32.12
2-143      32.13
2-144      32.14
2-145      32.15
2-146      32.16
2-147      32.17
2-148      32.18
2-150      32.30
2-151      32.31
2-152      32.32
2-153      32.33
2-154      32.34
2-155      32.35
2-156      32.36
2-157      32.37
2-158      32.38
2-159      32.39
2-160      32.40
2-161      32.41
2-162      32.42
2-163      32.43
2-201      32.55
2-202      32.56
2-203      32.57
2-204      32.58
2-205      32.59
2-206      32.60
2-207      32.61
2-208      32.62
2-209      32.63
2-210      32.64
3-1        33.01
3-2        33.02
3-3        33.03
3-36       33.15
3-37       33.16
3-38       33.17
3-39       33.18
3-40       33.19
3-41       33.20
3-42       33.21
3-43       33.22
3-44       33.23
4-31       110.01
4-32       110.02
4-33       110.03
4-34       110.04
4-35       110.05
4-36       110.20
4-37       110.21
4-38       110.22
4-39       110.23
4-40       110.24
4-41       110.25
4-42       110.26
4-43       110.27
4-44       110.28
4-45       110.29
4-46       110.30
4-47       110.31
4-48       110.32
4-49       110.06
4-50       110.07
4-51       110.08
4-52       110.33
4-59       110.99
6-1        93.01
6-2        93.02
6-3        93.03
6-4        93.04
6-5        93.04
6-6        93.05
6-7        93.06
6-8        93.99
6-36       93.20
6-37       93.21
6-38       93.22
6-39       93.23
6-40       93.24
6-41       93.25
6-66       93.40
6-67       93.41
6-68       93.42
6-69       93.43
6-70       93.44
6-71       93.45
6-101      93.07
6-102      93.07
6-103      93.07
6-131      93.60
6-132      93.61
6-133      93.62
6-134      93.63
8-56       111.01
8-57       111.99
8-58       111.02
8-59       111.02
8-60       111.02
8-61       111.03
8-81       111.15
8-82       111.16
8-83       111.17
8-84       111.18
8-85       112.01
8-86       112.02
8-87       112.03
8-88       112.04
8-89       112.05
9-1        113.01
9-2        113.02
9-3        113.15
9-4        113.16
9-5        113.17
9-6        113.18
9-7        113.19
9-8        113.20
9-9        113.21
9-10       113.22
9-11       113.23
9-12       113.35
9-13       113.36
9-14       113.37
9-15       113.38
9-16       113.39
9-17       113.40
9-18       113.41
9-19       113.42,
           113.99
9-20       113.43
10-26      90.01
10-27      90.02
10-28      90.03
10-29      90.04
10-66      91.01
10-67      91.02
10-68      91.03-
           91.06
10-69      91.07
10-70      91.08
10-71      91.09
10-72      91.10,
           91.99
10-91      152.01
10-92      152.02
10-111     163.01
10-112     163.02
10-113     163.03
10-114     163.04
10-115     163.05
10-119     152.15
10-120     152.16
10-121     152.17
10-122     152.18
10-123     152.19
10-124     152.20
10-125     152.21
10-130     91.25
10-131     91.26
10-132     91.27
10-133     91.28
10-134     91.29
10-135     91.30
10-136     91.31
12-51      153.001
12-52      153.002
12-53      153.003
12-54      153.004
12-55      153.005
12-56      153.006
12-57      153.007
12-58      153.008
12-59      153.009,
           153.999
12-60      153.010
12-76      153.025
12-77      153.026
12-78      153.027
12-79      153.028
12-80      153.029
12-81      153.030
12-82      153.031
12-83      153.032
12-84      153.033
12-86      153.034
12-87      153.035
12-88      153.036
12-89      153.037
12-131     153.050
12-132     153.051
12-133     153.052
12-134     153.053
12-135     153.054
12-136     153.055
12-137     153.056
12-138     153.057
12-139     153.058,
           153.999
12-140     153.059
12-141     153.060
12-142     153.061
12-143     153.062
12-144     153.063
12-145     153.064
12-185     153.075
12-186     153.076
12-187     153.077
12-188     153.078
12-189     153.079
12-190     153.080
12-191     153.081
12-192     153.082
12-193     153.083
12-194     153.084
12-195     153.085
12-196     153.086
12-197     153.087
12-198     153.088
12-199     153.089
12-200     153.090
12-201     153.091
12-202     153.092
12-203     153.093
12-204     153.094
12-205     153.095
12-206     153.096
12-207     153.096
12-208     153.097
12-209     153.098
12-210     153.130
12-211     153.131
12-211.5   153.132
12-212     153.133
12-213     153.099
12-214     153.100
12-215     153.101
12-216     153.102
12-217     153.103
12-218     153.104
12-219     153.105
12-220     153.106
12-221     153.107
12-222     153.108
12-223     153.109
12-224     153.110
12-225     153.111
12-227     153.112
12-228     153.113,
           155.37
12-229     153.145-
           153.150
12-230     153.165-
           153.172
12-231     153.114
12-276     156.001
12-277     156.002
12-278     156.003
12-279     156.004
12-280     156.005,
           156.999
12-281     156.006
12-282     156.007
12-283     156.008
12-326     156.020
12-327     156.021
12-328     156.022
12-329     156.023
12-361     156.035
12-362     156.036
12-363     156.037
12-364     156.038
12-401     156.050
12-402     156.051
12-403     156.052
12-404     156.053
12-405     156.054
12-406     156.055
12-407     156.056
12-408     156.057
12-409     156.058
12-410     156.059
12-411     156.060
12-412     156.061
12-413     156.062
12-476     156.075
12-477     156.076
12-478     156.077
12-501     156.090
12-502     156.091
12-503     156.092
12-504     156.093
12-505     156.094
12-506     156.095
12-576     157.01
12-577     157.02
12-578     157.03
12-579     157.04
12-580     157.05
12-581     157.06
12-582     157.07
12-583     157.08
12-584     157.09
12-585     157.10
12-586     157.11
12-587     157.12
12-588     157.13
12-589     157.14
12-636     157.25
12-637     157.26
12-701     157.40
12-702     157.41
12-703     157.42
12-704     157.43
12-705     157.44
12-706     157.45
12-707     157.46
12-708     157.47
12-831     157.60
12-832     157.61
12-833     157.62
12-834     157.63
12-835     157.64
12-836     157.65
12-837     157.66
12-901     159.001
12-902     159.002
12-903     159.003
12-904     159.004
12-905     159.005
12-906     159.006
12-907     159.007
12-908     159.008
12-909     159.009
12-911     159.011
12-912     159.011
12-913     159.012
12-914     159.999
12-915     159.013
12-916     159.014
12-917     159.015
12-918     159.016
12-1001    159.030
12-1002    159.031
12-1003    159.032
12-1004    159.033
12-1005    159.045
12-1006    159.046
12-1007    159.047
12-1008    159.048
12-1009    159.049
12-1010    159.060
12-1011    159.061
12-1012    159.075
12-1013    159.076
12-1014    159.077
12-1015    159.090
12-1016    159.091
12-1017    159.092
12-1018    159.105
12-1019    159.106
12-1020    159.107
12-1021    159.108
12-1251    160.001
12-1252    160.002
12-1253    160.003
12-1254    160.004
12-1255    160.005
12-1256    160.006
12-1257    160.007
12-1258    160.008
12-1259    160.009
12-1260    160.010
12-1261    160.011
12-1262    160.012
12-1263    160.013
12-1264    160.014
12-1265    160.015
12-1266    160.016
12-1267    160.017
12-1268    160.018
12-1269    160.999
12-1270    160.019
12-1271    160.020
12-1326    160.035
12-1327    160.036
12-1328    160.037
12-1329    160.038
12-1330    160.039
12-1331    160.040
12-1332    160.041
12-1376    160.055
12-1377    160.056
12-1378    160.057
12-1379    160.058
12-1380    160.059
12-1381    160.060
12-1382    160.061
12-1383    160.062
12-1384    160.063
12-1385    160.064
12-1386    160.065
12-1387    160.066
12-1427    160.080,
           160.081
12-1428    160.082
12-1429    160.083
12-1430    160.100
12-1431    160.100
12-1471    160.100
12-1472    160.100
12-1473    160.100
12-1474    160.100
12-1475    160.100
12-1476    160.100
12-1480    160.101
12-1481    160.101
12-1496    160.102
12-1526    161.01
12-1527    161.02
12-1528    161.03
12-1529    161.04
12-1621    161.15
12-1622    161.16
12-1666    161.30
12-1667    161.31
12-1668    161.32
12-1669    161.33
12-1670    161.34
12-1671    161.35
12-1672    161.36
12-1673    161.37
12-1711    161.50
12-1712    161.51
12-1713    161.52
12-1714    161.53
12-1715    161.54
12-1716    161.55
12-1717    161.56
12-1801    150.01
12-1802    150.02
12-1803    150.03
12-1804    150.04
12-1805    150.99
12-1851    150.50
12-1852    150.51
12-1853    150.52
12-1854    150.53
12-1855    150.54
12-1856    150.55
12-1857    150.56
12-1951    154.01
12-1952    154.02
12-1953    154.03
12-1954    154.04
12-1955    154.05
12-1957    154.06,
           154.07
12-1958    154.99
12-1981    154.20
12-1982    154.21
12-1984    154.22
12-1985    154.23
12-2201    155.01
12-2202    155.02
12-2203    155.03
12-2204    155.04
12-2211    155.15
12-2212    155.16
12-2214    155.17
12-2215    155.18
12-2216    155.19
12-2217    155.20
12-2226    155.35
12-2227    155.36
12-2236    155.99
12-2237    155.50
12-2238    155.51
12-2239    155.52
12-2301    162.01
12-2302    162.02
12-2303    162.03
12-2304    162.04
12-2305    162.99
12-2321    162.05
12-2322    162.05
12-2323    162.05
12-2324    162.06
12-2325    162.07
12-2351    165.01
12-2352    165.02
12-2353    165.03
12-2354    165.04
12-2355    165.05
12-2371    166.01
12-2372    166.02
12-2373    166.03
12-2374    166.04
12-2375    166.05
12-2376    166.06
12-2377    166.07
12-2378    166.08
12-2379    166.09
12-2380    166.10
12-2381    166.11
12-2382    166.12
12-2383    166.13
12-2384    166.14
14-1       130.01
14-2       130.02
14-3       130.15
14-4       130.16
14-5       130.17
14-6       130.18
14-7       130.19
16-1       92.01
16-2       92.02
16-3       92.15
16-4       92.16
16-5       92.17
16-6       92.18
16-7       92.19
16-8       92.20
16-9       92.21
16-10      92.35
16-11      92.36
16-12      92.37
16-13      92.38
16-14      92.39
16-15      92.99
18-31      50.01
18-32      50.02
18-33      50.03
18-34      50.04
18-35      50.05
18-36      50.99
18-61      50.20
18-62      50.21
18-63      50.22
18-64      50.23
18-65      50.24
18-66      50.25
18-67      50.99
20-1       151.001
20-2       151.002
20-3       151.003
20-4       151.004
20-5       151.005
20-6       151.006
20-7       151.007
20-8       151.008
20-9       151.009
20-10      151.010
20-11      151.011
20-12      151.012
20-13      151.013
20-14      151.999
20-20      151.025
20-21      151.026
20-22      151.027
20-23      151.028
20-24      151.029
20-25      151.030
20-31      151.045
20-32      151.046
20-33      151.047
20-34      151.048
20-51      151.060
20-52      151.061
20-53      151.062
20-54      151.063
20-55      151.064
20-56      151.065
20-57      151.066
20-58      151.067
20-59      151.999
20-61      150.35
20-62      150.36
20-63      150.37
20-64      150.38
20-70      151.080
20-71      151.081
22-1       70.01
22-31      70.15
22-32      70.16
22-33      70.17
22-34      70.17
22-35      70.17
22-36      70.17
22-37      70.99
22-56      70.30
22-57      70.31
22-58      70.32
22-59      70.33
22-60      70.34
22-61      70.35
22-96      70.50
22-97      70.51
22-98      70.52
22-99      70.53
22-136     71.01
22-137     71.02
22-138     71.03
22-139     71.04
22-140     71.99
22-141     71.05
22-142     71.06
22-143     71.07
22-144     71.08
22-145     71.09
22-146     71.10
22-147     71.11
22-148     71.12
22-149     71.13
22-150     71.14
22-151     71.15
22-152     71.16
22-161     71.30
22-162     71.31
22-163     71.32
22-164     71.33
22-165     71.34
22-166     71.35
22-167     71.36
22-168     71.99
22-171     90.15
22-172     90.16
22-173     90.17
22-180     164.01
22-181     164.02
24         TSO I
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1995-1   2-14-1995   50.05
                     151.045-
                     151.048,
1995-9   10-17-1995  151.060-
                     151.067,
                     151.999
                     50.20 –
1996-1   1-16-1996   50.25,
                     50.99
1996-9   3-19-1996   93.20
1996-36  10-15-1996  111.17
1996-48  12-17-1996  32.09
1997-5   2-11-1997   153.005,
                     153.112
                     31.01,
                     31.03,
                     32.09,
                     32.30,
                     32.31,
                     32.36-
                     32.43,
                     152.01,
                     152.02,
                     153.005,
                     153.025,
                     153.033,
                     153.037,
                     153.051,
                     153.053,
                     153.112,
1997-16  6-17-1997   153.113,
                     157.02,
                     157.04,
                     157.06,
                     157.08-
                     157.11,
                     157.45,
                     157.60,
                     157.61,
                     160.003,
                     160.006,
                     160.010-
                     160.012,
                     160.036-
                     160.038,
                     160.058,
                     160.063,
                     160.100
                     31.01,
1997-18  6-17-1997   31.03,
                     153.029-
                     153.032
2004-13  2-17-2004   71.06
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1996-36  10-15-1996  111.03
                     153.005,
                     153.037,
                     153.084,
1997-19  7-15-1997   153.086,
                     153.131,
                     153.133,
                     157.03
                     93.01,
1997-2   12-16-1997  93.05,
                     93.99
1997-3   12-16-1997  153.107
1997-5   3-17-1998   160.036-
                     160.038
1997-8   3-17-1998   151.999
                     153.026,
1997-10  5-19-1998   153.032,
                     153.037,
                     153.052
1997-11  8-18-1998   130.19
1997-12  8-18-1998   153.052
1997-13  9-22-1998   160.038,
                     160.063
                     153.052,
1997-21  12-15-1998  153.091,
                     157.03
                     153.052,
                     153.063,
1997-15  1-19-1999   157.04,
                     157.08,
                     157.45,
                     157.63
1997-20  4-20-1999   153.030
1997-22  6-15-1999   160.035
1997-25  8-17-1999   153.007
1997-27  1-18-2000   153.037
97-39    3-20-2000   153.037
1997-33  5-16-2000   152.17,
                     152.21
1997-51  1-16-2001   32.30
97-40    6-12-2001   153.133
97-43    11-13-2001  156.053,
                     156.077
97-45    11-13-2001  153.029
97-46    1-15-2002   157.26
1997-48  1-15-2002   130.01
1997-49  1-15-2002   71.06
1997-57  1-21-2003   32.03
1997-58  1-21-2003   151.081
2004-5   6-15-2004   160.080,
                     160.083
44-2004  8-17-2004   164.02
46-2004  8-17-2004   157.26
47-2004  8-17-2004   160.019
2004-45  8-17-2004   153.037
13-2004  9-21-2004   153.037
14-2004  10-19-2004  160.010,
                     160.012
2004-16  12-21-2004  153.027,
                     153.028
2004-17  12-21-2004  153.026
5-2005   4-19-2005   153.005
2005-4   4-19-2005   32.30
2005-6   4-19-2005   112.05
7-2005   5-17-2005   91.09
                     153.005,
8-2005   5-17-2005   153.025,
                     153.101
                     91.09,
10-2005  6-21-2005   160.100,
                     160.101
11-2005  7-19-2005   165.03
12-2005  9-20-2005   153.034
13-2005  9-20-2005   160.019
16-2005  11-15-2005  110.99
7-2006   3-16-2006   153.037
4-2006   5-16-2006   91.09,
                     151.081
6-2006   6-6-2006    153.099
2006-02  6-6-2006    32.32
7-2006   8-15-2006   153.059
09-2006  9-13-2006   153.131,
                     153.132
2006-11  11-21-2006  32.03
11-2007  8-7-2007    153.062
                     153.005,
02-2008  1-9-2008    153.061,
                     153.086,
                     157.26
03-2008  1-15-2008   151.030
                     153.064,
06-2008  4-15-2008   166.01-
                     166.14
07-2008  4-18-2008   153.052
09-2008  9-16-2008   153.037,
                     153.052
11-2008  12-17-2008  153.037
01-2009  1-20-2009   153.037
                     153.007,
                     153.025-
                     153.029,
                     153.076,
                     153.101,
02-2009  4-21-2009   154.22,
                     155.02,
                     155.99,
                     157.12,
                     160.012,
                     160.037,
                     161.03
3-2009   4-21-2009   32.02
04-2009  5-19-2009   165.01
05-2009  6-16-2009   153.037
06-2009  6-16-2009   153.052
07-2009  6-16-2009   153.062
01-2010  2-16-2010   91.31
03-2010  3-16-2010   33.03
05-2010  6-15-2010   153.145-
                     153.150
06-2010  6-15-2010   33.22
07-2010  7-20-2010   33.01,
                     33.23
08-2010  9-21-2010   154.02
09-2010  9-21-2010   153.076
10-2010  11-16-2010  153.145-
                     153.150
12-2010  12-21-2010  32.30,
                     32.31
01-2011  2-15-2011   93.63
02-2011  7-19-2011   153.005
04-2011  11-15-2011  153.077
01-2012  1-17-2012   153.058,
                     153.059
02-2012  2-21-2012   157.08,
                     157.46
03-2012  4-17-2012   153.076
06-2012  8-21-2012   70.01,
                     70.99
04-2012  10-16-2012  160.019
07-2012  12-18-2012  153.030
04-2013  2-19-2013   33.23
05-2013  3-19-2013   153.005,
                     153.076
07-2013  6-18-2013   153.078
                     92.01,
08-2013  8-20-2013   92.02,
                     92.21
09-2013  10-15-2013  71.99,
                     151.081
                     153.025,
                     153.037,
01-2014  5-20-2014   153.130,
                     153.131,
                     153.132,
                     153.133
                     153.026,
                     153.052,
                     157.04,
                     157.64,
02-2014  5-20-2014   159.011,
                     159.107,
                     160.016,
                     166.01-
                     166.14
01-2015  5-19-2015   153.114
                     153.037,
03-2015  8-18-2015   153.052,
                     153.165-
                     153.172
                     153.032,
                     154.02,
                     155.01-
                     155.04,
                     155.15-
                     155.20,
                     155.35-
04-2015  9-15-2015   155.37,
                     155.50-
                     155.52,
                     155.99,
                     157.26,
                     157.45,
                     157.46,
                     157.60,
                     159.030
01-2016  1-19-2016   33.18,
                     33.23
02-2016  2-16-2016   110.22,
                     110.20
04-2016  4-19-2016   130.01
05-2016  5-17-2016   153.052
                     94.01-
06-2016  5-17-2016   94.21,
                     94.99
07-2016  6-21-2016   94.03
09-2016  9-20-2016   153.099
10-2016  10-18-2016  154.09
                     153.037,
11-2016  10-18-2016  153.101,
                     156.056,
                     160.009
01-2017  1-17-2017   153.050
                     153.005,
                     153.086,
                     153.101,
                     153.103,
                     154.05,
                     154.99,
                     156.058,
                     156.092,
03-2017  3-21-2017   156.093,
                     158.01-
                     158.09,
                     158.20-
                     158.25,
                     158.40-
                     158.46,
                     158.99,
                     160.080,
                     160.083
04-2017  7-24-2017   TSO II
02-2020  2-18-2020   TSO II
07-2020  8-18-2020   TSO II
                     153.005,
01-2018  6-19-2018   153.051,
                     153.052,
                     153.062
03-2018  9-18-2018   153.105
04-2018  10-1-2018   91.45 – 94.47,
                     91.99
01-2019  5-21-2019   130.01
                     154.04,
02-2019  6-18-2019   154.05,
                     154.08,
                     154.22
04-2019  8-20-2019   153.053,
                     153.076
                     153.037,
                     160.006,
01-2020  1-21-2020   166.05-
                     166.10,
                     166.12,
                     166.13
03-2020  3-17-2020   153.115,
                     153.999
                     150.16-
03-2019  4-21-2020   150.20,
                     150.57,
                     150.99
06-2020  7-21-2020   153.080
05-2020  9-15-2020   130.01
08-2020  10-20-2020  153.058,
                     153.060
10-2020  11-11-2020  151.095,
                     151.096
01-2021  2-16-2021   153.076
02-2021  3-16-2021   160.103
03-2021  5-18-2021   153.062
04-2021  7-20-2021   153.005
05-2021  7-20-2021   92.35,
                     92.37
06-2021  7-20-2021   152.22,
                     152.99
07-2021  8-17-2021   153.005,
                     153.053
                     153.005,
08-2021  10-19-2021  153.053,
                     153.116
09-2021  10-19-2021  159.005,
                     159.011
10-2021  10-19-2021  70.18
01-2022  5-17-2022   153.026
02-2022  6-21-2022   153.005,
                     153.053
03-2022  11-15-2022  153.005
04-2022  12-20-2022  153.169,
                     153.170
01-2023  2-21-2023   153.115
02-2023  3-21-2023   153.005,
                     153.091
                     33.01–
03-2023  5-16-2023   33.03, 33.14–
                     33.22,
                     33.24
                     33.01–
06-2023  8-15-2023   33.03, 33.14–
                     33.22,
                     33.24
09-2023  10-17-2023  157.42,
                     157.43
10-2023  10-17-2023  156.055,
                     156.999
11-2023  10-17-2023  153.005,
                     153.084
                     130.30,
13-2023  12-19-2023  130.31,
                     130.99
14-2023  12-19-2023  91.60,
                     91.61
02-2024  2-20-2024   Adopting Ordinance
03-2024  6-18-2024   153.113
04-2024  6-18-2024   TSO I
05-2024  6-18-2024   TSO I
06-2024  6-18-2024   TSO I
07-2024  6-18-2024   TSO I
09-2024  8-20-2024   153.005,
                     153.117
11-2024  10-15-2024  TSO I
12-2024  10-15-2024  TSO I
 
 
