AMBOY, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 146, passed 2-5-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
 
CITY COUNCIL
MAYOR  Dave Witucki
MEMBER Tom Boeck
MEMBER Gina Massop
MEMBER Karl C. Reuter
MEMBER Tiffany Sevcik
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty
   
Appendix A: Sample Notice of Code Violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary, and usual, sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Amboy,
Minnesota, as presently established or as amended by ordinance, annexation, or
other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in this code may
also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Blue Earth County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer for public inspection. The Clerk/Treasurer shall provide a copy
for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code, all
future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by
reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Public Safety Department, or
the County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce
any provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall have the authority to administer and
enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain
individuals designated within the code or by the Clerk/Treasurer or City
Council shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions
specified. All and any person or persons designated may issue a citation in
lieu of arrest or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Treasurer and any city official or employee designated
by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may
with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or
resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or
otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk/Treasurer, peace officer, or any employee or official charged with the
duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or
entrance to the property by the City Clerk/Treasurer or any other authorized
city officer or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the people are being
complied with and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit
the inspection of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination
of any and all permits, licenses, or city service to the property. Mailed
notice shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in
control of the property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the
licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of the property shall be
given an opportunity to appear before the City Clerk/Treasurer to object to the
termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the Clerk/Treasurer’s
decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the Amboy City Council is authorized to give approval, adopted by
resolution approved by a majority of the members of the Council, to authorize
the Police Commission of Amboy and Vernon Center to allow the issuance of
administrative penalties for traffic offenses designated at M.S. § 169.999,
Subd. 1(b)(1), (2) and (3), as it may be amended from time to time. The City
Council is also hereby authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
Such resolutions may not proscribe administrative penalties for traffic
offenses designated by M.S. § 169.999.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
traffic offenses as designated in the above referenced statute as it may be
amended from time, as well as other provisions of this code. The procedures are
intended to be voluntary on the part of those who have been charged with those
offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk, or other person
giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code unrelated to
those written under M.S. § 169.999, Subd. 1(b)(1), (2) and (3) as it may be
amended from time to time, in a written notice of an alleged violation, sent by
first class mail to the person who is alleged to have violated the code, the
person giving notice may request the payment of a voluntary administrative
penalty for the violation directly to the City Treasurer within 14 days of the
notice of the violation. A sample notice is contained in Appendix A of this
chapter. In the discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged
violation, the time for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether
or not requested by the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition
to the administrative penalty, the person giving notice may request in the
notice to the alleged violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the
situation resulting in the alleged violation and may provide that if the
alleged violator corrects the situation resulting in the alleged violation
within the time specified in the notice, that the payment of the administrative
penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this code,
the Council, or any city official designated by it, may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
APPENDIX A: SAMPLE NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
   NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To:    (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From:    (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re:    Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title
of section)
Date:    (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated § ___________ of
the City Code relating to
_______________________________________________________________.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $_________ for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
_____________ (establish date), then the payment of the administrative penalty
will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash or money
order to the City Treasurer.
Signed:
   (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
__________________________________________________
(Ord. 128, passed 12-6-2010)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
31.   RURAL AND URBAN SERVICE DISTRICTS
         
32.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
30.01   Policy and purpose
   
30.02   Definitions
   
30.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
30.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
30.05   Local emergencies
   
30.06   Emergency regulations
   
30.07   Emergency management a government function
   
30.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds, or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 30.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as CIVIL DEFENSE
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 30.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, and operation of the emergency preparedness
organization, subject to the direction and control of the Council.
§ 30.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs, and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city’s emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 30.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of 3 days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see § 30.99
§ 30.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services; emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations; drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training; and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited; and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer. A copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of these regulations and their availability for
inspection at the City Clerk/Treasurer’s office shall be conspicuously posted
at the front of the City Hall or other headquarters of the city or at other
places in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution.
By resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time, and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see § 30.99
§ 30.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this resolution or under the worker’s compensation
law, or under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 30.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 31: RURAL AND URBAN SERVICE DISTRICTS
Section
   
31.01   Establishment of districts
   
31.02   Urban Service District
   
31.03   Rural Service District
   
31.04   Lands included within Rural Service District
   
31.05   Transfer from Rural Service District to Urban Service District
   
31.06   Benefit ratio
   
31.07   Services provided in Rural Service District
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The City of Amboy hereby divides the area within its limits into an Urban
Service District and a Rural Service District, constituting separate taxing
districts for the purpose of all municipal property taxes except those levied
for the payment of bonds and judgments and interest thereon, pursuant to M.S. §
272.67 as amended.
(Ord. 137, passed - - 2015)
§ 31.02 URBAN SERVICE DISTRICT.
   The Urban Service District shall include all properties within the City of
Amboy, except those set forth by ordinance as included in the Rural Service
District.
(Ord. 137, passed - - 2015)
§ 31.03 RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT.
   The Rural Service District shall include only such unplatted lands as in the
judgment of the City Council at the time of the adoption of the ordinance are
rural in character, and are not developed for commercial, industrial, or urban
residential purposes, and for these reasons are not benefited to the same
degree as other lands by municipal services financed by general taxation. The
Rural Service District may include lands which are not contiguous to one
another. The ordinance may designate lands outside the city which, if annexed,
shall be included within the Rural Service District. The ordinance shall
determine the approximate ratio which in the judgment of the City Council
exists between the benefits resulting from tax supported municipal service to
parcels of land of like market value, situated in the Rural Service District
and in the Urban Service District, respectively. By amendment of the ordinance
this benefit ratio may be changed, and lands may be added to or removed from
the Rural Service District by amendment of the ordinance or by operation of
M.S. § 272.67, Subd. 5. In setting the tax ratio for the urban and rural
service districts, the City Council must set the ratios so that taxes levied
for the payment of bond obligations and judgments and interest thereon which
may be incurred by the city to finance improvements which only benefit
properties in the urban service district shall only be paid by properties
within the urban service district.
(Ord. 137, passed - - 2015)
§ 31.04 LANDS INCLUDED WITHIN RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT.
   The Rural Service District shall include the land currently identified by
the Blue Earth County Assessor’s office as Parcel Identification Numbers
(PIN’s):
      Rl 1.22.23.127.001;   Rl 1.22.23.126.001;   Rl 1.22.23.226.014.
(Ord. 137, passed - - 2015)
§ 31.05 TRANSFER FROM RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT TO URBAN SERVICE DISTRICT.
   Whenever any parcel of land included in the Rural Service District is
platted in whole or in part; or whenever application is made for a permit for
construction of a commercial, industrial, or urban residential development or
improvement to be situated on such parcel or any part thereof, the board or
officer approving such plat or building permit shall report this to the City
Council, which shall make and enter an order transferring such parcel from the
Rural Service District to the Urban Service District.
(Ord. 137, passed - - 2015)
§ 31.06 BENEFIT RATIO.
   In the judgment of the City Council, the approximate ratio which exists
between the benefits resulting from tax supported municipal service to parcels
of land of like full and true value, situated in the Rural Service District and
the Urban Service District is satisfied as follows: properties located in the
Rural Service District shall be taxed at 100% of the applicable mill rate of
the township.
(Ord. 137, passed - - 2015)
§ 31.07 SERVICES PROVIDED IN RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT.
   No city service beyond that normally provided by the townships of Blue Earth
County will be provided by the city in the Rural Service District, except fire,
police and planning services.
(Ord. 137, passed - - 2015)
CHAPTER 32: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
32.01   Fee Schedule
§ 32.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
Type Amount/Cost
Type                                                 Amount/Cost
Bad check charge:                                    $30
Copies:                                              $0.10/page
Faxes:                                               $0.25/page
Dog and cat licenses: (Must have proof of rabies      
vaccination)
   Spayed or neutered                             $1
   Intact female or male                          $5
   Replacement tags                               $0.50
   Dog or cat citation                            Petty misdemeanor
   Unlicensed dog or cat                          Petty misdemeanor
Election filing:                                     $2
Liquor licensing: (due June 30th for liquor)          
   Liquor, intoxicating                            
      Off sale                                 $100
      On sale                                  $275
      On sale Sunday                           $50
      On sale, temporary                       $10
      Club license                             $275
      On sale wine                             $275
   Liquor, malt beverage                           
      Off sale malt                            $10
      On sale malt                             $40
   Consumption and display - set-up expires March $30, plus state fee
31st
Adult entertainment license:                         $150 base fee plus:
   Live entertainment                             $300
   Adult entertainment investigation fee          $200/application
   Background checks                              $15/person
Tobacco license:                                     $50
Snow shoveling/cleaning sidewalks:                   $75/hour with 1 hour
                                                     minimum
                                                     $75/hour with 1 hour
Weed control:                                        minimum, plus cost of
                                                     materials
Grass cutting:                                       $75/hour with 1 hour
                                                     minimum
                                                     $75 for the first hour and
Sewer lateral viewing only - at homeowner’s request$50/hour thereafter, with
                                                     1 hour minimum
Solicitation, residential:                           According to county
                                                     ordinance
                                                     $10 after winter turn-off
Water reconnection fee:                              $25 for non-payment of
                                                     utility bill
                                                     $60 - refunded after one
                                                     (1) year of consecutive
Customer deposit:                                    timely payments or
                                                     refunded against final
                                                     bill when moving out of
                                                     city
Water hook-up fees:                                  $650
Sewer hook-up fees:                                  $350
Zoning permit fees - total valuation:                 
In addition, an office fee of $3.00 will be charged for each permit
   Up to and including $500                       $5
                                                     $5 for the first $500,
   $501.00 to $2,000                              plus for each additional
                                                     $100 or fraction thereof,
                                                     to and including $2,000
                                                     $20 for the first $2,000,
                                                     plus $4 for each
   $2,001 to $25,000                              additional $1,000 or
                                                     fraction thereof, to and
                                                     including $25,000
                                                     $112 for the first
                                                     $25,000, plus $3 for each
   $25,001 to $50,000                             additional $1,000 or
                                                     fraction thereof, to and
                                                     including $50,000
                                                     $187 for the first
                                                     $50,000, plus $2 for each
   $50,001 to $100,000                            additional $1,000 or
                                                     fraction thereof, to and
                                                     including $100,000
                                                     $287 for the first
                                                     $100,000 plus $1.50 for
   $100,001 to $500,000                           each additional $1,000 or
                                                     fraction thereof, to and
                                                     including $500,000
                                                     $887 for the first
   $500,001.00 and up                             $500,000 plus $1 for each
                                                     additional $1,000 or
                                                     fraction thereof
Conditional use permits: (does not include any       $75.00 plus the cost of a
recording fees)                                      zoning permit, if required
                                                     N/C; however, property
                                                     owner is responsible for
                                                     capping water and sewer
Demolition permit:                                   service lines, leveling
                                                     the lot and keeping it in
                                                     a slightly and well kept
                                                     condition
                                                     N/C; however, owner is
                                                     responsible for capping
                                                     water and sewer service
Removal permit:                                      lines, leveling the lot
                                                     and keeping it in a
                                                     slightly and well kept
                                                     condition
Rezoning request: (does not include any recording    $150
fees)
Variance: (does not include any recording fees)      $75 plus the cost of a
                                                     zoning permit, if required
Note: water, sewer, garbage and recycling charges are adopted by Resolution and
are not part of this Schedule.
 
(Ord. 136, passed - -2015)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   SEWER USE REGULATIONS
         
51.   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
         
52.   WATER
         
53.   SOLID WASTE
         
54.   STORMWATER
CHAPTER 50: SEWER USE REGULATIONS
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Control by the Wastewater Superintendent
   
50.03   General provisions
   
50.04   Private wastewater disposal
   
50.05   Building sewers and connections
   
50.06   Use of public services
   
50.07   Prohibited acts regarding wastewater facilities
   
50.08   User rate schedule for charges
   
50.09   Power and authority of inspectors
   
50.10   Effective date
   
50.11   Properties connected to sanitary sewer, sump pumps and water service
lines
 
   
50.98   Violations
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The City of Amboy, Minnesota, or its representative thereof.
   BOD5 or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
5 days at 20°C in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning 3
feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures, and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Amboy as
presently established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY when used herein may also be used to refer to the
City Council and its authorized representative.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat the pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and/or sampling of wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
humans and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid, and solid wastes resulting from
industrial or manufacturing processes, trade, or business, or from the
development, recovery, and procession of natural resources, as distinct from
residential or domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections, and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city’s wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES and/or SDS permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under § 405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1345, or any regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or more stringent state
criteria applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the city.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by the treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of the treatment facilities, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to §§ 402 and 405
of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342 and 1345.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface
water or groundwater.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users which a BOD5 concentration not greater than 300 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 300 mg/l.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than 1/2 inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred terms is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a
storm sewer.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (5)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained, and controlled by a
public authority.
      (6)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid- and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
      (7)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
stormwaters, surface runoff, groundwater, sub-surface water, street wash water,
drainage, and unpolluted water from any source.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility which has a discharge flow:
      (1)   In excess of 25,000 gallons per average work day;
      (2)   Has exceeded 5% of the total flow received at the treatment
facility;
      (3)   Whose waste contains a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant to
§ 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); or
      (4)   Whose discharge has a significant effect, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal
system, the quality of sludge, the systems effluent quality, or emissions
generated by the treatment system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than 5 times the average 24-hour concentration of
flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection and/or
performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions, and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system as
defined by M.S. § 115.01, Subd. 8, as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Wastewater Superintendent or a deputy, agent, or
representative thereof.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in, water,
wastewater, or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city’s wastewater disposal system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community sometimes referred to as SEWAGE.
From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid- and
water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants,
and institutions together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater
that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment, or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
out fall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water
supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works
including land which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used
for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-3-1990)
§ 50.02 CONTROL BY THE WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Wastewater Superintendent shall have control and general supervision of
all public sewers and service connections in the city, and shall be responsible
for administering the provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and
efficient public sewer is maintained.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-3-1990)
§ 50.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under jurisdiction, any human or animal excrement,
garbage, or objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the city’s NPDES/SDS
permit.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinafter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes from which wastewater is
discharged, and which is situated within the city and adjacent to any street,
alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be
located, a public sanitary sewer of the city, shall be required at the owner(s)
expense to install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in
accordance with provisions of this code, within 20 days of the date the public
sewer is operational with the following exception: those owners of property
which was annexed into the City of Amboy by Joint Resolution Between the
Township of Shelby and the City of Amboy, the Resolution dated 5-5-1986, will
be permitted to continue to use their septic tank systems until the time as
these existing systems must be replaced. At that time, the owner(s) must
install suitable service connections to the public sewer. During the time these
individual septic tank systems are still in use, they must meet all
requirements of any and all state statutes and rules pertaining to their
operation. All future buildings from which wastewater is discharged that are
constructed in the city shall be required to immediately connect to the public
sewer. If sewer connections are not made pursuant to this division (D), an
official 30-day notice shall be served instructing the affected property owner
to make the connection.
(Am. Ord. passed 5-6-1996)
   (E)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under division (D) above, the city must
undertake to have the connection made and shall assess the cost thereof against
the benefitted property. The assessment, when levied, shall bear interest at
the rate determined by the City Council and shall be certified to the Auditor
of the County of Blue Earth, Minnesota, and shall be collected and remitted to
the city in the same manner as assessments for local improvements. The rights
of the city shall be in addition to any remedial or enforcement provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-3-1990)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.04 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Those existing septic tank systems located on property covered under
the 1986 annexation agreement known as the Joint Resolution Between the
Township of Shelby and the City of Amboy (the Resolution dated 5-5-1986) and
which are hereby allowed to continue in operation until they must be replaced,
must be operated and maintained according to any and all state statutes and
rules governing the septic tank systems. There shall be no cost to the city for
the operation and maintenance.
   (B)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or the
Department of Health of the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-3-1990; Am. Ord. passed 5-6-1996)
§ 50.05 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any new connection(s) to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities,
including, but not limited to, capacity for flow, BOD5, and suspended solids,
as determined by the Superintendent.
   (B)   No unauthorized person (s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (C)   Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or authorized
agent and the party employed to do the work, and shall state the location, name
of owner, street number of the building to be connected, and how occupied. No
person shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits of the
building or property for which the service connection permit has been given.
   (D)   There shall be 2 classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or any other information considered pertinent in the judgement
of the city. The industry as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type
of activity.
   (E)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner’ (s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where 1 building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered 1 building sewer. The city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
connection aforementioned.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, upon examination and test by the Superintendent or his or
her representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements
of the State of Minnesota Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions of in the
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (J)   No person (s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State of Minnesota Building and Plumbing
Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures
set forth in, appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of
Practice No. 9. All the connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and
verified by proper testing to prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
city prior to installation.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or authorized representative thereof.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (N)   No person shall make a service connection with any public sewer unless
regularly licensed under this chapter to perform the work, and no permit shall
be granted to any person except the regularly licensed person.
   (O)   Any person desiring a license to make a service connection with public
sewers shall apply in writing to the City Council with satisfactory evidence
that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in the business and
qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be referred to the
Superintendent for recommendations to the Council. If approved by the Council,
the license shall be issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer upon the filing of a
bond as hereinafter provided.
   (P)   No license shall be issued to any person until a $1,000 bond to the
city, approved by the Council, is filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer
conditioned that the license will indemnify and save harmless the city from all
suits, accidents, and damage that may arise by reason of any opening in any
street, alley, or public ground, made by the licensee or by those in the
licensee’s employment for any purpose whatever, and that the licensee will
replace and restore the street and alley over the opening to the condition
existing prior to the installation, adequately guard with barricades and lights
and will keep and maintain the same to the satisfaction of the Superintendent,
and shall conform in all respects to the rules and regulations of the Council
relative thereto, and pay all fines that may be imposed on the licensee by law.
   (Q)   The license fee for making service connections is $25. All licenses
shall expire on December 31 of the license year unless the license is suspended
or revoked by the Council for cause. Upon failure to apply for a license
renewal prior to the expiration date thereof, the license fee for the ensuing
year shall be $50.
   (R)   The Council may suspend or revoke any license issued under this
section for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the applications for a
license;
      (2)   Incompetence of the licensee; and/or
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this section or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-3-1990)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.06 USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
groundwater, roof runoff, foundation drainage, sump pumps, surface drainage
such as yard drainage, yard fountains, pond overflow, non-contact cooling
water, or any substance other than sanitary sewage into the sanitary collection
system.
      (1)   No roof runoff, sump pump, swimming pool discharge, drain tile
connection, or surface water drainage shall be connected to the sanitary sewer
system and no building shall hereafter be constructed nor shall any existing
buildings be hereafter altered in such a manner that the roof drainage or any
other source of discharge or drainage other than sanitary sewer shall connect
with the sanitary sewer system inside or outside the building.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation having a roof, sump pump, swimming
pool discharge, cistern overflow pipe, drain tile connection or surface drain
now connected and/or discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall
disconnect and/or remove the same prior to 10-1-1993. Any disconnects or
openings in the sanitary sewer shall be closed or repaired in an effective,
workmanlike manner.
      (3)   All sump pumps shall have a discharge pipe installed to the outside
wall of the building with 1 inch inside minimum diameter. The pipe attachment
must be a permanent fitting such as PVC pipe with glued fittings. The discharge
shall extend outside of the foundation wall and must be directed towards the
front yard or rear yard area of the property. In no instances shall water be
discharged so as to flow towards the adjacent properties on either side of the
property upon which the sump pump is operating.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
      (4)   In the event that it is necessary to discharge clear water to the
sanitary sewer from a sump pump or other water collection system during periods
of freezing weather, a permit must be obtained from the city. The permit must
be approved by the City Council and will allow discharge of clear water to the
sanitary sewer from November 1 to April 1 of each year. This permit period may
be altered or terminated if weather conditions warrant. Violations of the
conditions of this permit will make the holder of this permit subject to
penalties as outlined in §
50.98.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-14-1993)
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet
on approval of the city and upon approval and issuance of a discharge permit by
the MPCA.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, and sulfides;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with
particles great than 1/2 inch in any dimensions, animal guts or tissues, paunch
manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshing, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, rage, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastic,
asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubrication
oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH of less. than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable or causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater disposal system; and/or
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   (D)   The following described substances, materials, water, or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works treatment
process, or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and/or soil, vegetation and groundwater, or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The Superintendent may set
limitations lower than limitations established in the regulations below if in
his or her opinion, such more severe. In forming his or her opinion as to the
acceptability of wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to the
factors as the quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in
the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, the city’s NPDES and/or SDS permit, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, decree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on
materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary
sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the Superintendent are as
follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein;
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C) and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not;
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
slug as defined herein;
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
50.01. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels,
institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar
places where garbage originates from the preparation of food on the premises or
when served by caterers;
      (5)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either singly
or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public nuisance
or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their
maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Wastewater with objectionable color not remove in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
      (7)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm water, storm
drainage, or groundwater;
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in
such quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal
system;
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to the
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works in excess of limitations set be the Superintendent
for the materials:
         (a)   Arsenic;
         (b)   Radii cyanide;
         (c)   Lead;
         (d)   Mercury;
         (e)   Nickel;
         (f)   Silver;
         (g)   Total chromium;
         (h)   Zinc; and
         (i)   Phenolir compounds which cannot be removed by city’s wastewater
treatment system.
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation, or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body; and
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of the
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
the materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of division (P) below.
   (E)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics, enumerated in division (D) above, and/or which in the
judgement of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the
wastewater treatment facilities, processes, or equipment: receiving waters and/
or soil, vegetation, and groundwater or which otherwise create a hazard to life
or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b),
and all addendums thereof;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating, and
disposing of wastes not covered b existing taxes or sewer service charges. If
the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design,
installation, and maintenance of the facilities and equipment shall be made at
the owners’ expense, and shall be subject to the review and approval of the
city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
   (F)   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in divisions (B)
and (D) above, or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
or any state requirements.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation at the expense of the owner(s).
   (H)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
division (D)(2) above, any flammable wastes as specified in division (C)(1)
above, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. Interceptors
shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by
appropriate means, and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of
the collected materials not performed by the owner’s personnel must be
performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
   (I)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure,
or control manhole, with the necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes.
The structure shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed
by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be
safe and accessible at all times.
   (J)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests, or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this chapter and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type, and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with federal, state, and local standards are being
met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses
to the city at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the city. The
owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and reporting
required by the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the
right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an independent
laboratory.
   (K)   Measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration, and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (L)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
sanitary sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review and approval prior to construction
of the facility. Review and approval of the plans and operating procedures
shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the user’s
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users shall
notify the Superintendent immediately upon having a slug or accidental
discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of this chapter to enable
countermeasures to be taken by the Superintendent to minimize damage to that
wastewater treatment works. The notification will not relieve any user of any
liability for any expense, loss, or damage to the wastewater treatment system
or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the city on account thereof
under any state and federal law. Employers shall ensure that all employees who
may cause or discover such a discharge are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
   (M)   No person, having charge of any building or other premises which
drains into the public sewer, shall permit any substance or matter which may
form a deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30
days after receipts of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a
suitable and sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists,
shall clean out, repair, or alter the same, and perform such other work as the
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner’s refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair, or alter the same
after the period of 60 days, the Superintendent may cause the work to be
completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
   (N)   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or
out of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause such work to be done as
the Superintendent may direct. Each day after 3 days that a person neglects or
fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this section, and the
Superintendent may then reuse the work to be done, and recover from the owner
or agent the expense thereof by an action in the name of the city.
   (O)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing
facility shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times, a
catch basin or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil,
dirt, or any mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
   (P)   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by the person, and may collect the
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
   (Q)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the City of Amboy and
any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment
therefore by the industrial concern, providing that National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards and the city’s NPDES and/or State Disposal System permit
limitations are riot violated.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-3-1990)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.07 PROHIBITED ACTS REGARDING WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-3-1990)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.08 USER RATE SCHEDULE FOR CHARGES.
   Each user of sewer service shall pay the charge(s) applicable to the type of
service, and in accordance with the provisions set forth in
Chapter 51.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-3-1990)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.09 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling,
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city’s sewer system in,
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on, the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except that such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
50.06(I).
   (D)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement, All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-3-1990)
   (E)   Every person occupying improved real estate that discharges into the
city’s sanitary sewer system shall allow the City of Amboy employee(s) or
authorized agents to inspect the buildings to confirm that there is no sump
pump or other prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer system. Any person
refusing to allow their property to be inspected shall immediately become
subject to the fine and surcharge hereinafter provided for. The occupant shall
have a reasonable time to correct the deficiency taking into consideration the
climactic conditions which exist at the time the violation is discovered.
Corrections shall be verified by City of Amboy employee(s) or its authorized
agents. Upon verified compliance with this division (E), the city reserves the
right to inspect the property at least yearly to verify continued compliance.
(Ord. passed 6-14-1993)
§ 50.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval and publication, as provided by law.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-3-1990)
§ 50.11 PROPERTIES CONNECTED TO SANITARY SEWER, SUMP PUMPS AND WATER SERVICE
LINES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADMINISTRATOR, CLERK-TREASURER. Appointed by the City Council and/or the
Administrator, Clerk-Treasurer designee.
      BUYER. Any person or entity who purchases a property or to whom title to
a property is conveyed.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL.  Appointed by the City Council and/or the Building
Official's designee.
      CLOSING. The date in which the ownership of the property is transferred
to the buyer.
      POINT OF SALE CERTIFICATION or CERTIFICATION. The certificate provided to
the city evidencing compliance with this section.
      QUALIFIED PERSON. A person qualified to complete an inspection and
certification under division (C)(3) below.
      SALE or SOLD. The transfer of title to a property.
      SELLER. The current owner of real estate as identified in the property
records on file at the Blue Earth County Auditor's Office or by court order.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   Sanitary sewer lines. All sanitary sewer lines serving property,
from the house to the main line, shall be in a safe and functional condition
and shall be free from all leaks and failures, including but not limited to
sags, partially collapsed sections, or tree root intrusion.
      (2)   In addition, all sanitary sewer lines shall meet the standards and
specification established in this section and Minnesota State Plumbing Codes.
   (C)   Point of sale certification required and monies escrowed for
deficiencies.
      (1)   No property which is connected to the city's sanitary sewer and/or
water service line shall be sold within the city unless the seller or buyer has
provided a point of sale certificate to the Building Official at least two
business days prior to closing. The certification shall certify that the
property has been inspected and is in compliance with the requirements of this
section. Certifications shall be valid for 5 years from the date of signature.
      (2)   The certification shall be in the form provided by the city and
requires 1 digital copy of the televising report to be provided to the city
along with the written report.
      (3)   The inspection and certification of sanitary sewer lines and/or
water service lines must be completed by a qualified person. A qualified person
is a plumber licensed by the State of Minnesota or another sewer professional
pre-approved by the city.
      (4)   The fee for inspection and preparation of the certification by the
contractor shall be paid by the buyer or seller. There shall be no fee paid to
the city.
      (5)   Any deficiencies discovered during the inspection shall be
disclosed prior to closing and shall be corrected within 12 months from the
closing. The seller shall provide proof to the city that funds were placed in
an escrow account at closing to cover the required repairs.
   (D)   Exceptions. Certifications are not required for the following:
      (1)   A property where the certificate of occupancy has been issued by
the Building Official within 5 years prior to the sale of the dwelling unit.
      (2)   A property sold or transferred by a court ruling including wills,
probate actions, divorce and estate settlements.
      (3)   A property that is without buildings or contains no dwelling or
other buildings with plumbing fixtures.
      (4)   A property which is sold at a sheriff's sale to a foreclosing
mortgagee which holds a mortgage on the dwelling unit.
      (5)   A property transfer which does not require the filling of a
certificate of real estate value, as described in M.S. § 272.115, Subd. 1.
   (E)   Penalties.
      (1)   Criminal remedies. The failure of any seller or buyer to comply
with the provisions of this section or to comply with an order issued by the
city pursuant to this section shall be a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Civil remedies. In additional to the criminal remedies, this
section may be enforced by injunction, action for abatement or other
appropriate civil remedy.
   (F)   Warranty disclaimer by city. By enacting and undertaking to enforce
this section, neither the city nor its council, agents or employees warrant or
guarantee the safety, fitness or suitability of any property in the city.
(Ord. 150.30, passed 11-9-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall result in a
written warning stating the nature of the violation and giving notice to comply
to the offending occupant and landowner if not the occupant. The warning may be
achieved by personal service or by mailing by United States certified mail to
the owner of the subject real estate and to the occupant of the subject real
estate. The notice shall also provide a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction of the violation. The offender shall, within the period
of time stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations. The violation
must be permanently resolved and corrected within the time limit.
   (B)   (1)   In the event the correction to a violation of §
50.06(A) is not accomplished within the amount of time provided for in division
(A) of this section, the city, without any additional notice, may take
necessary steps to terminate utility services, including water, to the address
deemed in violation.
      (2)   Additionally, a surcharge of $75 per month is hereby imposed and
shall be added to every sewer billing mailed on and after 12-1-2002 to those
landowners or occupants who are not in compliance with §
50.06(A). The surcharge shall be added every month, until the property is in
compliance. The imposition of the surcharge shall in no way limit the right of
the City of Amboy to pursue other remedies available such as the City of Amboy
correcting the violation. If the City of Amboy corrects the violation, the
offending party shall be charged for the actual cost of the correction. The
actual cost, including reasonable charges for labor involved, shall be added to
the next regular water, sewer, garbage, or utility billing that the city issues
to the address. In the event the occupant of the property is not the owner of
the property for real estate tax purposes, the billing for the correction shall
be sent to the property owner. Any unpaid amounts of the cost of repair or
correction of the deficiency may be certified to Blue Earth County Land Records
as an assessment for inclusion in the next year’s real estate taxes to the
extent that it remains unpaid.
      (3)   Any person who shall continue any violation of any provision of
this chapter beyond the time limit provided for in division (A) above shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of the violation.
(Ord. 101, passed 1-3-1990; Am. Ord. passed 6-14-1993; Am. Ord. passed 10-7-
2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 51: SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Establishment
   
51.03   Determination of sewer service charges
   
51.04   Sewer Service Fund
   
51.05   Administration
   
51.06   Enforcement
   
51.07   Conflicts; effective date
   
Appendix A:   User Rate Schedule
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION (FIXED SERVICE) COSTS. Those fixed costs attributable to
administration of the wastewater treatment works (i.e., billing and associated
bookkeeping and accounting rests).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD5. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
5 days at 20°C expressed in milligrams per liter.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Amboy, as
presently established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a
future time. When used herein, the term CITY may also refer to the City Council
or its authorized representative.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any place of business which discharges sanitary waste as
distinct from industrial wastewater.
   COMMERCIAL WASTEWATERS. Domestic wastewater emanating from a place of
business as distinct from industrial wastewater.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct the facilities.
   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater having a BOD and/or TSS greater than
domestic waste as defined in this section and not otherwise classified as an
incompatible waste.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Users which are units, agencies, or instrumentalities of
federal, state, or local government discharging normal domestic strength
wastewater.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES. Are:
      (1)   Entities that discharge into a publicly-owned wastewater treatment
works, liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in industrial or
manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural resources.
         (a)   These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented
under 1 of the following divisions:
            1.   Division A. Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing;
            2.   Division B. Mining;
            3.   Division D. Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E. Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Sewers; and
            5.   Division I. Services.
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be
considered to have the following characteristics:
            1.   BOD5 - less than 300 mg/l; and
            2.   Suspended solids - less than 300 mg/l.
      (2)   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly-owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The liquid processing wastes from an industrial
manufacturing process, trade, or business, including but not limited to all
Standard Industrial Classification Manual Divisions A, B, D, E, and I
manufacturers as distinct from domestic wastewater.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Users other than commercial, governmental, industrial,
or residential users, discharging primarily normal domestic strength wastewater
(e.g., nonprofit organizations).
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is primarily produced
by residential users, with BOD5 concentrations not greater than 300 mg/l and
suspended solids concentrations not greater than 300 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design or
useful life of the treatment works, whichever is longer, and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed. OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   PUBLIC WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. A system of sanitary sewers owned,
maintained, operated, and controlled by the city.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories, or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design or useful life of the
treatment works, which is longer, to maintain the capacity and performance for
which the works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facilities whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for 1 or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached and semi-detached housing, apartments, and
mobile homes and which discharges primarily normal domestic strength sanitary
wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid- and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all chances, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service, and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users of the city’s wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income. Expenditure of the SEWER SERVICE FUND will
be for operation, maintenance, and replacement costs; and to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than 5 times the average 24-hour concentration or
flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection system
and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION MANUAL. Office of Management and Budget,
1979.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface or is in suspension in water,
wastewater, or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering,
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Wastewater, latest
edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 707(a) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., which upon exposure to or assimilation into
any organism will cause adverse effects.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user’s
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   USERS. Those residential, commercial, governmental, institutional, and
industrial establishments which are connected to the public sewer collection
system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community, also referred to as SEWAGE. From
the standpoint of source it may be a combination of the liquid- and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water, and storm water
that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment, or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collections sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide  a reliable recycled water
supply as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works
including land which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used
for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
(Ord. 102, passed 1-3-1990)
§ 51.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The City of Amboy hereby establishes a sewer service charge system
whereby all revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities
will be used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation,
maintenance, and replacement and for debt service on capital expenditure
incurred in constructing the wastewater treatment works. Each user shall pay
its proportionate share of operation, maintenance, and replacement costs of the
treatment works, based on the users proportionate contribution to the total
wastewater loading from all users.
   (B)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be determined and fixed in a sewer service charge system
developed according to the provisions of this chapter. The sewer service charge
system shall be adopted by resolution upon enactment of this chapter, shall be
published in the local newspaper, and shall be effective upon publication.
Subsequent changes in sewer service rates and charges shall be adopted by
Council resolution and shall be published in the local newspaper. Revenues
collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a separate fund known as the
Sewer Service Fund. Income from revenues collected will be extended to offset
the cost of operation, maintenance, and equipment replacement for the facility.
Sewer service charges and the Sewer Service Fund will be administered in
accordance with the provisions of §
51.05.
(Ord. 102, passed 1-3-1990)
§ 51.03 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Users of the City of Amboy wastewater treatment works shall be
identified as belonging to 1 of the following user classes:
Classes Sub-Classes
Classes       Sub-Classes
Residential   Normal
              Reduced-rate
              Apartment
              Occasional
Commercial    Normal
              High volume
Governmental  –
Institutional –
 
The allocation of users to these categories for the purpose of assessing user
charges shall be the responsibility of the City Clerk/Treasurer. Allocation of
users to user classes shall be based on the substantive intent of the
definitions of these classes contained herein.
   (B)   The user shall pay operation, maintenance, and replacement costs in
proportion to the user’s proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and
loadings to the treatment plant. Proportionate contribution shall be determined
by classification of all users into the subclasses listed in division (A)
above. All users, with the exception of those in the Residential sub-class
“Occasional” will be billed based on a normal residential user being assigned a
usage of 40,000 gallons per quarter, or 1.0 ERU. Those users in the Residential
sub-class “Occasional” shall be billed based on their usage during the year.
(Ord. 102, passed 1-3-1990; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-1990; Am. Ord. passed 1-7-
2002)
§ 51.04 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   The City of Amboy hereby establishes a Sewer Service Fund as an income
fund to receive all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system, and
all other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement, and
construction of the wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special
charges, fees, and assessments intended to retire construction debt. The city
also establishes the following accounts as income and expenditure accounts
within the Sewer Service Fund:
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance Account;
      (2)   Equipment Replacement Account; and
      (3)   Debt Retirement Account.
   (B)   All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the Clerk/
Treasurer separate and apart from all other funds of the city. Funds received
by the Sewer Service Fund shall be transferred to the Operation and Maintenance
Account, the Equipment Replacement Account, and the Debt Retirement Account, in
accordance with state and federal regulations and the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient to
ensure adequate replacement throughout the design or useful life, whichever is
longer, of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and apart in the
Equipment Replacement Account and dedicated to affecting replacement costs.
Interest income generated by the Equipment Replacement Account shall remain in
the Equipment Replacement Account.
   (D)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the Operation and
Maintenance Account.
   (E)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
payment of debt service stemming from the wastewater facility shall be held
separate and apart in the Debt Retirement Account.
(Ord. 102, passed 1-3-1990)
§ 51.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Generally. The sewer service charge system and Sewer Service Fund
shall be administrated according to the following provisions.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain a proper system of accounts
suitable for determining the operation and maintenance, equipment replacement,
and debt retirement costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish the City
Council with a report of the costs annually in October.
      (2)   The City Council shall annually determine whether or not sufficient
revenue is being generated for the effective operation, maintenance,
replacement, and management of the treatment works, and whether sufficient
revenue is being generated for debt retirement. The Council will also determine
whether the user charges are distributed proportionately to each user in
accordance with this chapter and § 204(b)(2)(0) of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284, as amended.
      (3)   The city shall thereafter, but not later than the end of the year,
reassess and as necessary revise the sewer service charge system then in use to
insure the proportionality of the user charges and to ensure the sufficiency of
funds to maintain the capacity and performance to which the facilities were
constructed, and to retire the construction debt.
      (4)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, each user will
be notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of
ths sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance, and
replacement.
      (5)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary to
document compliance with the sewer service charge system adopted.
      (6)   Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered as part of the
city utility billing. This billing for sewer service shall be made on a
quarterly basis succeeding the period for which the service was rendered. The
bills shall be sent out at least 15 days prior to the due date. Any bill not
paid in full as of the due date will be considered delinquent. At that time,
the city shall notify the delinquent owner/occupant in writing regarding the
delinquent bill and subsequent penalty. The total penalty for the city utility
billing shall be $15. Seven dollars and fifty cents of this penalty shall be
considered revenue for the City Sewer Fund and $7.50 shall be considered
revenue for the City Water Fund.
(Am. Ord. passed 2-6-1995; Am. Ord. 3-3-1997; Am. Ord. passed 3-6-2006)
      (7)   The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
the premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only
upon the rendition that the owner of the premises is liable therefore to the
city.
      (8)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxins or other incompatible wastes, including the cost cf restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger(s) of the
wastes, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 102, passed 1-3-1990)
§ 51.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Each and every sewer service charge levied by and pursuant to this
chapter is hereby made a lien upon the lot or premises served, and all the
charges which are on September 30 of each year past due and delinquent shall be
certified to the County Auditor as taxes or assessments on the real estate.
Nothing in this chapter shall be held or construed as in any way stopping or
interfering with the right of the city to levy as taxes or assessments against
any premises affected any delinquent or past due sewer service charges.
   (B)   As an alternative to levying a lien, the city may, at its discretion,
file suit in a civil action to collect such amounts as are delinquent and due
against the occupant, owner, or user of the real estate, and shall collect as
well all attorney’s fees incurred by the city in filing the civil action. The
attorney’s fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
   (C)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable to
recording notices of the lienor filing a civil action, the owner or user of the
real estate being serviced by the treatment works shall be liable for interest
upon all unpaid balances at the rate of 12% per annum.
(Ord. 102, passed 1-3-1990)
§ 51.07 CONFLICTS; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   The sewer service charge system shall take precedence over any terms
or conditions or agreements or contracts which are inconsistent with the
requirements of § 204(b)(1)(A) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284, and federal
regulation 40 C.F.R. pt. 35.21.40 of the Environmental Protection Agency’s
grant regulations.
   (B)   This chapter shall be in full force and take effect from and after its
passage and approval and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 102, passed 1-3-1990)
APPENDIX A: USER RATE SCHEDULE
   (A)   Current ERU designations.
Current ERU Designations
User Categories Category ERU’No. of Conn. in Category Total No. of ERU’s
Current ERU Designations
User Categories        Category ERU’No. of Conn. in Total No. of ERU’s
                                      Category
Normal Residential     1.00           225             225.00
Reduced-Rate           0.50           2               1.00
Residential
Apartment              0.75           30              22.50
Occasional             Less than 0.50 2               Less than 1.00
High Volume Commercial 2.00           0               -
2.0
High Volume Commercial 2.25           0               -
2.25
Normal Commercial      1.00           28              28.00
Government             1.00           3               3.00
School                 1.00           1               1.00
                                                   TOTAL 280.50
 
   (B)   Monthly charges.
      (1)   The estimated OM&R budget for 2011 less the amount for repair
reserves funded by interest on the current C.D.’s is $111,200 or $27,800 per
quarter. The charge per ERU is $99 ($27,800/280.50 total equivalents per
quarter and rounded off to $99). Monthly charges for each user category are as
follows:
 
User Category            ERU’s        Per Quarter Charge Round Off Plus 10%
                                                           per Month
Normal Residential       1.00           $99.00             $33.00    $36.00
Reduced-Rate Residential 0.50           $49.50             $16.50    $18.00
Apartment                0.75           $74.25             $24.75    $27.00
Occasional               Less than 0.50 Flat charge to be determined by Council
 
 
User Category               ERU’Per Quarter Charge Round Off Plus 10%
                                                     per Month
High Volume Commercial 2.0  2.00  $198.00            $66.00    $72.00
High Volume Commercial 2.25 2.25  $222.75            $74.25    $81.00
Normal Commercial           1.00  $99.00             $33.00    $36.00
Government                  1.00  $99.00             $33.00    $36.00
School                      1.00  $99.00             $33.00    $36.00
 
      (2)   The OM&R charges by user class are shown in column 4 above and
include a 10% increase to provide funds to cover periods of late payments and
cash flow difficulties.
      (3)   Each new connection to the city system shall be placed in its
proper user class and charged accordingly. Adjustments in charge per unit
equivalent will be made at least annually, when changes in the OM&R budget are
made.
(Ord. 102, passed 1-3-1990; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-1990; Am. Ord. passed 8-7-
1995; Am. Ord. passed 3-2-1998; Am. Ord. passed 4-6-1998; Am. Ord. passed 6-5-
2000; Am. Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Am. Ord. passed 1-7-2002; Am. Ord. passed 5-6-
2002; Am. Ord. passed 3-6-2006; Am. Ord. passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -
2009; Am. Ord. passed 6-6-2011)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Generally
   
52.02   Establishment of a Water Department
   
52.03   Application for start-up service
   
52.04   Payments
   
52.05   Delinquent accounts
   
52.06   Turning on water
   
52.07   Keeping service in repair
   
52.08   Applications for new water systems
   
52.09   Plumbing requirements
   
52.10   Use of fire hydrants
   
52.11   Private water supply
   
52.12   Suspension of water
   
52.13   Water service
   
52.14   Water rates
   
52.15   Access to meters
   
52.16   Reconnect fee
   
52.17   Injury to property
   
52.18   Disposition of revenues
   
52.19   Effective date
§ 52.01 GENERALLY.
   The rules and regulations herein specified shall be considered a contract
with every person or corporation who is supplied with water from the waterworks
system of the city. Every person, company, or corporation, by taking water,
shall be considered to be consenting to these rules and regulations and bound
by them. When any of these rules or others that the city may adopt are
violated, the water shall be cut off, even if 2 or more persons receive water
from the same pipe. The water shall not be turned on again until all required
payments have been made. Other terms may be required by the City Council before
the water is turned back on, including a satisfactory understanding with the
party that no further cause for complaints shall arise.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF A WATER DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established a Water Department which shall be under the
supervision of the Public Maintenance Supervisor. There shall be a licensed
waterworks operator who may or may not be the same individual as the Public
Maintenance Supervisor.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
§ 52.03 APPLICATION FOR START-UP SERVICE.
   Every person, company, or corporation (hereafter referred to as the
applicant) who desires a supply of water must make application to the City
Clerk/Treasurer. All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner unless
the owner signs a form stating that the owner prefers having the utilities
billed directly to the renters of the property. All owners shall be responsible
for full payment of the utilities at the rental unit, whether occupying the
property or not and any charges unpaid are subject to being made a lien upon
the property. Unless the applicant has had a record of prompt payment of
previous city utility billings within the last 12 months, the application must
be accompanied by a deposit which is established by the City Council by
resolution. The deposit shall be refunded with the next billing after 4
quarterly consecutive timely payments or 12 monthly consecutive timely payments
or upon termination of service with all prior bills paid in full.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
§ 52.04 PAYMENTS.
   Statements for water and sewer usage for the preceding quarterly period
shall be mailed by the City Clerk/Treasurer to each customer on or before the
first day of each quarter (January, April, July, October). The bill shall
designate the number of gallons of water that was consumed (previous reading
subtracted from the present reading) times the current rate. Other charges may
be included on the bill. These charges may include, but are not limited to,
fees for sewage treatment, recycling, garbage service, appropriate taxes, state
water connection fees, landfill clean-up surcharges, NSF fees, and other
charges in regard to services received from the city. The amount listed on the
statement shall be due on or before the fifteenth day of that same month
(January, April, July, October). If payment is not made on or before the
fifteenth day, the customer shall be charged a fee of $15 as a penalty for late
payment. Half of this $15 late fee shall be deposited in the Sewer Fund as
required by
Chapter 51, as amended.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995; Am. Ord. passed 3-3-1997; Am. Ord. passed 3-6-2006)
§ 52.05 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The city shall endeavor to collect delinquent accounts promptly. In
any case, where satisfactory arrangements for payment have not been made, the
Public Maintenance Supervisor may, after the procedural requirements of
division (B) below have been complied with, discontinue service to the
delinquent customer by shutting off the water at the stop box. When water
service to any premises has been discontinued, service shall not be restored
except upon the payment of all delinquent amounts due plus a fee of $25 to
cover city costs for the disconnection and reconnection. The City
Administrative Clerk/Treasurer shall prepare an assessment roll each year
providing for assessment of the delinquent amounts against the respective
properties served. The assessment roll shall be delivered to the Council for
adoption on or before October 1 of each year for certification to the county
for collection along with taxes. The action is optional and may be subsequent
to taking legal action to collect delinquent accounts.
   (B)   Water shall not be shut off pursuant to division (A) above until
notice and an opportunity for a hearing have first been given the occupant of
the premises involved. The notice shall be sent by mail or personally served to
the customer occupying the premises and shall state that if payment is not made
before a day stated in the notice but not less than 15 days after the postmark
of the notice, or 20 days during that part of the year covered by the state’s
Cold Weather Rule regarding shutoffs, the water supply to the premises will be
shut off. In the case of rental property, a copy of the notice shall also be
mailed to the owner of the property. The notice shall also state that the
customer (or in the case of rental property, the owner) may, before the date,
demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the supply will not be cut off
until after the hearing is held. If the customer or property owner requests a
hearing before the date specified, a hearing shall be held on the matter by the
City Council at least 1 week after the date on which the request is made. If,
as a result of the hearing, the City Council finds that the amount claimed to
be owing is actually due and unpaid and there is no legal reason why the water
supply of the delinquent customer may not be shut off in accordance with this
chapter, an employee of the city may be directed to shut off the water supply.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995; Am. Ord. 126, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 52.06 TURNING ON WATER.
   No person except an authorized city employee shall turn on any water supply
at the stop box or tap any distributing main or pipe of the water supply system
or insert a stop cock or other appurtenance therein without the express
permission of the city.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.07 KEEPING SERVICE IN REPAIR.
   The consumer or owner shall be responsible for maintaining the service pipe
from the curb shut-off into the building served. If he or she fails to repair
any leak in the service pipe within 24 hours after notice by the city, the city
may turn the water off. If this happens, the water shall not then be turned on
again until the leak is repaired. When the waste of water is great or damage is
likely to result from the leak, the city shall turn the water off immediately
upon the giving of notice if repair is not commenced immediately. If the
consumer or owner does not immediately commence to repair the leak, the city
may repair the leak and assess the cost back to the owner. The city stipulates
that no claim shall be made against it for any damage resulting from work on
any part of the city’s water distribution system, any defective service pipes,
stop cocks, or other service apparatus or from the shutting off or turning on
of the water service because of the applicant’s failure to make his or her
payments.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
§ 52.08 APPLICATIONS FOR NEW WATER SYSTEMS.
   No connection shall be made to the city water system without permission of
the city. When the applicant requests a new connection, the applicant shall pay
to the city a $650 connection fee. In the case of multiple connections, such as
duplexes or apartment buildings, the fee shall be $650 per unit if each unit is
billed separately. The applicant shall also pay for the cost of making the
necessary connection from the curb stop to provide service to the property.
Water shall not be turned into the pipes or plumbing to be operated by the
applicant until they have paid the city.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
§ 52.09 PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Service pipes. Every service pipe shall be laid with sufficient bend
to allow not less than 1 foot of extra length and in the manner as to prevent
rupture by settlement. The service pipe shall be placed not less than 6 feet
below the surface and be so arranged as to prevent rupture by freezing. A shut-
off or other stop cock with waste valve of the size and strength required shall
be placed close to the inside wall of the building and be well protected from
freezing. Connections with the mains for domestic supply shall be at least 3/
4 of an inch.
   (B)   Supply from one service. No more than 1 house or building shall be
supplied from 1 service connection except by special permission of the Council.
Whenever 2 or more parties are supplied from 1 pipe connecting with a service
main, each building or part of building separately supplied shall have a
separate stop box and a separate meter.
   (C)   Water meters. All water meters used in connection with the water works
system of the City of Amboy shall be straight reading U.S. gallons and of a
standard manufacture and to be put in place or removed under the supervision of
the Public Maintenance Supervisor. Repairs of meters shall be performed by
employees of the city. All newly installed meters must be of the outdoor read
variety to provide ready access to reading. The cost of all meters, the placing
in connection with the water works or removing of same and the keeping of the
meters in repair and good working condition will be at the expense of the city.
If a meter is in disrepair and fails to register property, the applicant will
receive an estimated billing. The estimation will, if possible, be equal to the
average quarterly consumption for the most recent 12-month period. If this is
not possible, the estimation will be for 5,000 gallons for each adult living in
the household and 2,500 gallons for each child residing in the residence.
   (D)   Placing of stop cocks and curb cocks. Curb stops shall be installed
generally where desired by the owners of occupied properties, but they shall be
placed as near as possible to the curb if on a street or within 1 foot of the
alley line if the main is located in the alley. They shall be installed at an
approximate depth of 6 feet below the established grade and shall be left in an
accurate vertical position when back-filling is completed.
   (E)   Excavation of streets and filling. The street must be opened and the
earth deposited in a manner that will cause the least inconvenience to the
public and provide for the passage of water along the gutters. In refilling the
trench, sand and gravel must be laid in layers not more than 6 inches in depth.
Each layer must be thoroughly tamped to prevent settling. The paving, flagging,
and sidewalks are to be restored to at least the same condition as prior to the
excavation. All rubbish and excess earth are to be removed immediately, if
possible.
   (F)   Plumber’s report. Within 48 hours after completion of any system,
attachment, or connection, the plumber shall make a full report to the city.
The report will include a description and plat showing the exact location and
measurements from the lot lines, of the stop or curb cock, the meter and
service pipes.
   (G)   Inspection. All plumbing shall be skillfully done and in a manner
required by the Minnesota State Plumbing Code. It shall be subject to
inspection by the City’s Building Inspector. The quality and pattern of all
appurtenances shall also be subject to the Building Inspector’s approval. No
work shall be covered over until examined by the City’s Maintenance Supervisor
or the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
§ 52.10 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person other than an authorized city employee shall operate a fire
hydrant or interfere in any way with the city water system without first
obtaining authority to do so from the Clerk/Treasurer and/or city maintenance
supervisor.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.11 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
   No water pipe of the city water supply system shall be connected with any
pump, well, or tank that is connected with any other source of water supply.
When any such connection is found, the Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the owner
to sever the connection and if this is not done immediately, the city shall
turn off the water supply forthwith. Before any new connection to the city
system is permitted, city employees shall ascertain that no cross-connection
will exist when the connection is made.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.12 SUSPENSION OF WATER.
   Whenever the City Council determines that a shortage of water supply
threatens the city, it may limit the times and hours during which city water
may be used for fountains, sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air
conditioning, or other specified uses. The city also may discontinue service to
any water consumer without notice for necessary repairs.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
§ 52.13 WATER SERVICE.
   Except for the extinguishment of fires, or special permission has been
received from the City Council, no person other than an authorized city
employee shall use water from the city water supply system or permit water to
be drawn therefrom unless the water passes through a meter approved by the
city. The City Council may issue permits for the use of water for construction
and building purposes. They shall adopt whatever means prove most efficient for
finding the quantity of water that will or has been used and will collect in
accordance with water rates in effect at the time.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
§ 52.14 WATER RATES.
   A schedule of rates shall be periodically adopted by the Council and will be
in effect upon publication. The schedule of rates shall be on file with the
Administrative Clerk/Treasurer. Every resident using city water shall be
charged and will pay at the current rates. Nonresidents using city water will
pay double the current rate. A minimum amount will be charged for up to 5,000
gallons of usage per quarter with the exception of those connections considered
“Occasional.” Those connections will be charged based on their usage, estimated
or metered, during the year.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995; Am. Ord. passed 1-7-2002)
§ 52.15 ACCESS TO METERS.
   The owners or tenants shall provide ready and convenient access to the meter
so that it may be examined or read by city employees. All consumers of water
shall permit city employees to enter his or her premises or buildings at all
times between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. to read or test any meter, to examine the
pipes or other fixtures.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.16 RECONNECT FEE.
   If service is discontinued at the request of the owner or consumer, there
shall be a fee of $25 for reconnecting the service.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995; Am. Ord. 132, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 52.17 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   No person will break, deface, interfere with, or disturb any machinery,
apparatus, fixtures, or attachments that are part of the water works of the
city. This includes any public or private hydrants, hoses, or water troughs,
stop cocks, meters, service pipes, or any other part. No person shall deposit
anything in any stop or curb cock box or commit any act that will obstruct or
impair the use of any of these properties. Any person or persons violating any
of these provisions shall be charged with a misdemeanor. Upon conviction, they
shall be fined and charged court costs and restitution for damages. If found in
default of payment of these fines and costs, they may be placed in jail until
the fines and costs have been paid and for a term determined by the Blue Earth
County court system.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.18 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.
   All revenues derived from charges imposed under this section shall be
credited to the Water Fund. The late fees collected shall then be transferred
to the Sewer Fund as required by
Chapter 51, as amended.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
§ 52.19 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon its passage and publication of its
title and the official summary.
(Ord. 107, passed 7-3-1995)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Open burning restriction
   
53.04   Refuse restriction
   
53.05   Contract requirements
   
53.06   Compulsory residential list; collection fees
   
53.07   Mandatory use of municipal system
   
53.08   Residential waste storage
   
53.09   Commercial collection
   
53.10   Effective date
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is hereby enacted for the purpose of controlling the
collection, transportation, and disposal of waste and recyclable materials as
shall accumulate within the City of Amboy and for the purposes of promoting the
public health, safety, and welfare of persons residing or carrying on a
business within the City of Amboy.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Amboy.
   COMPULSORY DISPOSAL LIST. The list of persons within the City of Amboy who
by the provisions of this chapter, are required to pay a monthly unit
collection fee for the collection, transportation, and disposal of waste and
recycling.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm, or corporation with whom the city shall
contract for the collection, transportation, and disposal of waste and/or
recycling.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Those waste chemicals and compounds which would
be considered hazardous substances under state law and are generated by
residential dwelling units.
   MULTIPLE RESIDENCE. Single structures containing 2 or more household units.
   MUNICIPAL WASTES. Liquid or semi-liquid residue from municipal sewage
disposal facilities.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, firm, or association.
   RECYCLING. The practice of separating certain types of plastic, glass,
aluminum, steel and tin, newspaper, mixed mail, boxboard and cardboard, and
other similar types of material designated as such by Blue Earth County
Environmental Services from the waste stream and sending them to a recycling
facility to be processed so that they may be reused.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. All houses, duplexes, apartments, and other living
quarters.
   UNIT COLLECTION FEE. The monthly charge made to owners and occupants of
residential property.
   WASTE or WASTES. Refuse, garbage, and rubbish that accumulate in the
ordinary operation of a household or commercial or industrial establishment.
Yard waste and municipal wastes are not included under this definition and can
not be disposed of in the same manner as refuse, garbage, and rubbish.
   YARD WASTE. Garden wastes, leaves, lawn clippings, weeds, shrub and tree
waste, prunings, and other similar debris generated while maintaining property.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 53.03 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Generally. From and after the effective date of this section, except
as herein otherwise provided, open burning shall be prohibited within the City
of Amboy.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CAMPFIRES. A fire set for cooking, warming, recreational, or ceremonial
purposes, which is not more than 3 feet in diameter by 3 feet high and the
ground surrounding the fire has been cleared of all combustible material for 5
feet from the base of the fire.
      STARTER FUEL. Dry, untreated, unpainted wood or charcoal fire starter.
Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as starter fuels and as aids to
ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas burning devices causing
minimal pollution may be used to start the fire.
      WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, charcoal,
cordwood, or untreated dimensional lumber. WOOD does not include wood that is
green, with leaves or needles, rotted, wet, oil soaked, or treated with paint,
glue, or preservatives.
   (C)   Exceptions to open burning restrictions.
      (1)   Campfires as defined above;
      (2)   Fire contained in charcoal grills, camp stoves, or other devices
designed for the purpose of cooking or heating;
      (3)   Fires may not, however, be used for the burning of litter, refuse,
garbage, leaves, or paper. Fires not housed in an outdoor fireplace or barbecue
appliance must be surrounded by noncombustible material. Fires must be located
at least 20 feet from adjacent properties;
      (4)   The Amboy Fire Department may conduct building burns within the
city upon approval of the City Council. The approval is contingent upon the
Fire Department receiving all the necessary approvals from any state or local
governmental department in regard to the building burns; and
      (5)   The Maple River School District may have a bonfire during
Homecoming festivities upon approval by the City Council.
   (D)   Additional provisions. A competent person shall constantly attend any
fire permitted by this section until the fire is extinguished. This person
shall have a garden hose connected to the water supply, or other extinguishing
equipment readily available for use. No person shall conduct, cause, or permit
open burning during a burning ban put into effect by a local authority, county,
or state agency. Exception to conduct fires under this section does not excuse
a person from the consequences, damages, or injuries which may result therefrom
nor does it exempt any person from regulations promulgated by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency or any other governmental unit exercising jurisdiction
in matters of pollution or fire hazard regulations.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-3-1999; Am. Ord. passed 6-3-2002)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.04 REFUSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Generally. Except as herein provided, no refuse shall be deposited or
otherwise disposed of within the City of Amboy except as permitted by the State
of Minnesota Solid Waste Management Act and the Blue Earth County Solid Waste
Management Plan.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Fertilizer. Municipal wastes may be disposed of on land when used
as agricultural fertilizer, provided that it is done on a site which has
received the approval of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and spread in
accordance with the MPCA’s rules and regulations.
      (2)   Composting.
         (a)   General rule. Composting shall be allowed only on properties
where there is a single-family, detached dwelling or property operated by the
city as an essential service. Every householder or owner, occupant, or tenant
of any premises who composts shall do so in an environmentally sound manner and
shall meet the standards set forth in this section.
         (b)   Materials allowed. Only acceptable materials generated from the
legal boundaries of the site of the containment shall be allowed into the
composting structure. ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS means plant materials consisting of
grass clippings, leaves, weeds, small twigs, evergreen cones and needles, wood
chips, herbaceous garden debris and commercial ingredients (mixed into the
composting material) specifically designed to speed or enhance decomposition.
Kitchen wastes, such as eggshells, coffee grounds, chopped vegetables, and
fruit remains also are acceptable.
         (c)   Materials not allowed. None of the following materials shall be
placed in the compost container: meat, bones, fat, oil, dairy products,
plastic, synthetic fibers, human or pet waste and diseased plants or plants
treated with pesticides.
         (d)   Containers. Compostable materials shall be placed within a
container of durable material, including, but not limited to, wire fencing,
rot-resistant wood or brick, or a commercially manufactured container designed
for composting. Containers shall be maintained in sound condition and shall be
capable of securing all compostable material.
         (e)   Location of containers. Compost containers shall be located
entirely on the owner’s property. The structure shall be located within the
rear yard and shall not be located within 5 feet of any property line or 20
feet to a side lot line if adjacent to any public street right-of-way.
Containers shall also be no closer than 20 feet from any dwelling unit located
on adjacent property. The compost area must be located and designed so that
seepage from the compost will not funnel off into public streets, alleys, or
storm sewers.
         (f)   Maximum size. A compost container placed on private property
shall not exceed 30 square feet in area and shall not exceed 3 feet in height.
         (g)   Maintenance. Compost containers and compostable materials shall
be maintained so as not to create odors, rodent harborage, or a fire hazard.
Compost shall be turned over and mixed within the container in order to keep
the material aerated, to minimize odor generation and promote effective
decomposition of material whereby it will not create a public nuisance.
         (h)   Alternative method of disposal. Leaves, grass clippings, garden
clippings, and other similar materials may be brought to the city’s compost
site or buried or plowed under.
(Am. Ord. passed 12-5-2005)
      (3)   Branches. Small tree branches must be brought to the city’s branch
pile. Large branches and trunks of trees that are cut down in the city can not
be brought to this pile but must be disposed of at the compost site to which
the city takes brush and compost or at another place out of the city limits.
Christmas trees should be brought to the curb for the city’s Christmas tree
pickup which is held shortly after January 1 of each year. If it is not
possible to have a Christmas tree at the curb for pickup, it should be brought
to the city’s brush pile as soon as possible thereafter. All plastic, tinsel,
or other decorations must be removed from the trees before disposal.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-3-1999)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.05 CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a municipal garbage and refuse
collection system. The City Council is hereby authorized and empowered to
grant, by contract with any person, firm, or corporation, the exclusive right
and authority to collect and dispose of residential garbage and refuse within
the city.
   (B)   There is hereby created and established a municipal recycling system.
The City Council is also hereby authorized and empowered to grant, by contract
with any person, firm, or corporation, the exclusive right and authority to
collect residential recycling within the city.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation which contracts with the City of
Amboy for refuse collection or recycling pickup must meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   Collection of garbage and rubbish shall be made at every residence
in the City of Amboy once in each calendar week.
      (2)   Recycling pickup shall be made at every residence in the City of
Amboy at least twice each month.
      (3)   Contractor(s) shall negotiate individually with commercial
businesses and governmental agencies or subdivisions for refuse and recycling
pickup.
      (4)   Refuse and recycling contracts will be in full force and effect for
a period of time to be mutually determined by the City Council and Contractor
(s) with an option for extension to be mutually agreed upon by negotiation
between the Council and Contractor(s).
      (5)   The Contractor shall convey all refuse collection under this
contract to a site which meets the criteria set by the State of Minnesota Solid
Waste Management Act and the Blue Earth County Solid Waste Management Plan.
Recyclables shall be taken to a recycling center to be processed in accordance
with any applicable criteria set by the State of Minnesota and/or the Blue
Earth County Solid Waste Management Plan.
      (6)   Before any contract shall be binding against the city, the
Contractor(s) shall enter into a joint and several performance bond with the
City of Amboy. The bond will be signed by the Contractor(s) and with a surety
company in the amount of $500, which bond shall be kept in full force and
effect. The conditions of the bond shall be that the Contractor(s) shall fully
and faithfully perform all conditions and specifications of the contract(s).
      (7)   The Contractor(s) shall perform under the contract(s) in a clean,
neat, and workmanlike manner and shall operate the trucks and motor vehicles as
are reasonably necessary and suitable to the rendering of the services and in
collecting the refuse and recycling under the contract(s). The Contractor(s)
shall keep the vehicles used insured with a minimum of public liability
insurance of $100,000 per person and $300,000 per occurrence for bodily injury
and $50,000 for property damage. A current certificate of insurance shall be
filed by the Contractor(s) with the city during the full term of the Contract
(s). The policies shall provide for 10-days’ notice by the insurance company to
the city of any changes, cancellations, or lapses of the policies. The
Contractor(s) shall also purchase and maintain workers’ compensation insurance
providing limits as required by the State of Minnesota. Contractor(s) shall
submit written evidence to the city that workers’ compensation insurance has
been obtained. All of the foregoing policies shall be with a company or
companies licensed to do business in the State of Minnesota and acceptable to
the City of Amboy.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 53.06 COMPULSORY RESIDENTIAL LIST; COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   There is hereby established within the City of Amboy a compulsory
residential list which shall include every residential dwelling wherein there
would normally accumulate wastes, as defined herein, in the operation of a
household. No person shall dispose of wastes, as herein defined, other than
through a licensed collector. Those dwellings on the compulsory residential
list shall use the city designated licensed collector for weekly pickup of
wastes. Each household unit in a multiple residence shall be considered a
separate residential unit for billing purposes with the exception of all
multiple dwellings of four or more which shall be considered a commercial unit
for billing purposes. Those residences occupied as rental property will have
the monthly unit collection fee billed to the owner of the property unless the
owner signs a form stating that the owner prefers having the fee billed to the
renters of the property. All owners will be responsible for full payment of the
monthly fee at the rental unit, whether or not the owner pays the fee. When any
charge remains unpaid on any bill after the due date stated on the bill, a late
charge as determined from time to time by the Council of the City of Amboy
shall be added to the amount due. Any charges unpaid at any residential unit
are subject to being made a lien upon the property.
   (B)   All persons considered residential users of the garbage and refuse
collection system within the city shall be charged a monthly collection fee per
residential unit for the collection, transportation, and disposal of waste as
part of the municipal utility billing. The unit collection fees to residential
users will be based on the price charged to the city by the Contractor. These
fees will be adopted in resolution form by the City Council and will be in
effect upon publication of the resolution. Fees as provided herein shall be
billed and collected by the City of Amboy as part of the municipal utility
billings. Any changes in fees charged to the city by the Contractor for
residential service will be mutually agreed upon by the Contractor and city and
adopted by an Amendment to the Garbage and Rubbish Collection Contract. Unit
service charges to residential users will be based on a maximum collection
quantity of two 30-gallon bags per week or their equivalent in smaller bags.
The maximum total weight per bag should not exceed 25 pounds and the maximum
total weight to be picked up each week per residence will be 50 pounds. Any
unit desiring additional service over and above this maximum weight limit of 50
pounds shall be required to purchase a garbage tag to be placed on each
additional bag set out for collection. Garbage tags will be available at City
Hall and may also be available at other locations within the city. Residential
users will not be allowed to use dumpsters except in cases of demolition,
construction, or reconstruction of housing units or when a housing unit is sold
and the current owners need to clean out the unit before the new owners take
possession.
   (C)   All persons considered residential users of the garbage and refuse
collection system as stated above shall also be considered as participants in
curbside recycling programs within the city. Those residents shall be charged a
recycling fee which shall be billed and collected by the City of Amboy as a
part of municipal utility billings. The provisions stated in division (A) above
regarding the method of charging for garbage service shall also apply to
recycling charges.
   (D)   Those residents who are absent from their homes for at least 30 days
must notify the city of their absence in order to be eligible for an exemption
from these monthly service fees.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 53.07 MANDATORY USE OF MUNICIPAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, transport, or dispose of
any waste in the City of Amboy except in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   No person shall deposit solid waste, recyclable materials, demolition
debris, or yard waste upon any public or private highway, street, road, or
right-of-way; deposit solid waste, recyclable materials, demolition debris, or
yard waste upon the property of another or cause, maintain, or permit the
accumulation of solid waste which creates an unsanitary condition or permits or
encourages the accumulation or breeding of rats, insects, or other vermin.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-3-1999)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.08 RESIDENTIAL WASTE STORAGE.
   (A)   The Contractor will be required only to accept refuse in watertight
and water-proof plastic bags with the top secured with a suitable tie. The
plastic bags may be put in a metal or plastic garbage can to prevent sacks
being torn open by animals; however, garbage cans containing refuse not put
into plastic bags will not be emptied.
   (B)   The garbage bags or containers shall be kept at ground level and shall
be placed by the resident adjacent to the traveled street or alley, no more
than 6 feet from the curb or edge of the traveled street or alley.
   (C)   Owners and occupants of residential property shall keep their premises
free from undue accumulations of snow so as not to interfere with collection of
either refuse or recycling. Wherever the undue accumulations exit, collection
will not be made.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 53.09 COMMERCIAL COLLECTION.
   Because of the variation, both as to amount and type of waste from
commercial or industrial establishments, the rate for the refuse collections
shall be negotiated on an individual basis between the Contractor and the
establishment. Commercial or industrial establishments may select a refuse
hauler other than the hauler with which the city has contracted its residential
collection. Recycling collection shall not be mandatory for commercial and
industrial establishments but rather on a voluntary basis. Recycling fees for
businesses and industries will also be negotiated on an individual basis
between the establishment and the recycling hauler.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 53.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter becomes effective upon its passage and the publication of its
title and the official summary.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 114, passed 5-3-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 54: STORMWATER
Section
   
54.01   Stormwater utility establishment
   
54.02   Purpose
   
54.03   Definitions
   
54.04   Stormwater utility fund
   
54.05   Establishment of stormwater utility fee
   
54.06   Residential
   
54.07   Non-residential
   
54.08   Stormwater utility fee exemptions
   
54.09   Stormwater utility adjustments
   
54.10   Appeal of stormwater utility fee
   
54.11   Payment of fees
   
54.12   Late payment penalty
   
54.13   Establishment of tax lien
§ 54.01 STORMWATER UTILITY ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a public utility to be known as the stormwater
utility for the city. The stormwater utility shall be operated as a public
utility pursuant to the authority of M.S. § 444.075, as it is amended from time
to time. Stormwater utility revenues shall be subject to the provisions of the
chapter and M.S. § 444.075, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2021)
§ 54.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a funding mechanism for the
following services:
   (A)   The administration, planning, analysis, installation, operation,
maintenance, and replacement of public drainage systems.
   (B)   The administration, planning, implementation, construction, and
maintenance of stormwater best management practices (BMP's) to reduce the
introduction of sediment and other pollutants into local water resources.
   (C)   Other education, engineering, inspection, monitoring, testing, and
enforcement activities as necessary to maintain compliance with local, state,
and federal stormwater requirements.
   (D)   Activities necessary to maintain compliance with the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System (MS4) permit requirements established by the US Environmental Protection
Agency, including preparation, implementation, and management of a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPP).
(Ord. passed 8-2-2021)
§ 54.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMPERVIOUS. A constructed hard surface that either prevents or retards the
entry of water into the soil and causes water to run off the surface in greater
quantities and at an increased rate of flow than existed prior to development.
Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways, parking lots, storage
area, and concrete, asphalt, or gravel roads. Paths, parking, and storage areas
that consist of gravel and exposed dirt will be considered an impervious
surface.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2021)
§ 54.04 STORMWATER UTILITY FUND.
   There is hereby created a stormwater utility fund into which all fees, when
collected, shall be placed. Such monies shall be first used to pay normal,
reasonable, and current costs of operating and maintaining the city stormwater
system and facilities.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2021)
§ 54.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF STORMWATER UTILITY FEE.
   There shall be collected from every property in the city a stormwater
utility fee. Stormwater utility fees shall be established by ordinance. Fees
shall be based upon the operations of the stormwater utility, including an
accounting of all monies received and disbursed, together with a working budget
estimate of the needs of the utility.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2021)
§ 54.06 RESIDENTIAL.
   The stormwater utility fee for properties classified as residential shall be
calculated based on one drainage unit per residential unit. Residential
properties include single-family, multi-family, townhome, mobile home park, and
all other types of clustered residential housing, including the residential
portion of mixed-use developments and excluding lodging.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2021)
§ 54.07 NON-RESIDENTIAL.
   The stormwater utility fee for properties classified as non-residential
shall be calculated on one drainage unit per commercial unit. Commercial
properties include any property that is zoned for business usage.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2021)
§ 54.08 STORMWATER UTILITY FEE EXEMPTIONS.
   The following land uses are exempt from stormwater utility fees:
   (A)   Public right-of-way and parks;
   (B)   Vacant lands with no impervious surfaces;
   (C)   Railroad rights-of-way.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2021)
§ 54.09 STORMWATER UTILITY ADJUSTMENTS.
   The public works employee may adjust the impervious surface acreage for non-
residential parcels of land based on a demonstration that the impervious
coverage of such parcel is substantially different than the amount previously
calculated. Supporting information, including maps and measurements to justify
an adjustment, shall be suppled by the property owner. Administrative
adjustments for impervious surface calculation differences shall be retroactive
to the month said deviation is brought to the attention of the city.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2021)
§ 54.10 APPEAL OF STORMWATER UTILITY FEE.
   If a property owner or person responsible for paying a stormwater utility
fee believes that a particular assigned fee is incorrect, such person may
request a recalculation. The City Council shall review and approve
recalculations following any appeal and its decision shall be final.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2021)
§ 54.11 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   Statements for stormwater utility fees shall be billed on the same basis
(e.g., monthly, quarterly, and the like) as other utility charges. All fees
shall be subject to established procedures for determining and collecting
customer charges. Mobile home parks shall be billed in aggregate to the owner
of the mobile home park. For other clustered residential units such as
townhomes, the city has the discretion to bill either a homeowner association
in aggregate or each homeowner. Both residential and non-residential fees shall
be applied to mixed-use developments, with charges billed individually or in
aggregate, to higher tenant or property owner, at the discretion of the city.
Monthly charges apply to temporarily vacated property. The charges are for
service rendered in the month of the bill.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2021)
§ 54.12 LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.
   All stormwater fees not paid by the due date shall incur a penalty at the
same rate set forth for other delinquent utility fees in the fee schedule
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2021)
§ 54.13 ESTABLISHMENT OF TAX LIEN.
   Any past due stormwater utility fees will be certified to the County Auditor
for collection with real estate taxes against the property served by the
utility established in this chapter for collection as other taxes are collected
in the following year pursuant to M.S. §
444.075(3), as it may be amended from time to time, and the city code of
ordinances. In addition, the city may have the right to bring a civil action or
take other legal remedies to collect unpaid fees.
(Ord. passed 8-2-2021)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
72.   SNOWMOBILES
         
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
         
74.   BICYCLES, ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER SKIS AND SKATEBOARDS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State highway traffic regulations adopted by reference
   
70.02   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
70.03   Stop intersections
   
70.04   Through streets and one-way streets
   
70.05   Turning restrictions
   
70.06   U-turns restricted
   
70.07   Excessive noise
   
70.08   Exhibition driving prohibited
   
70.09   Cruising prohibited
   
70.10   Motor vehicle noise
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Highway Traffic Regulations Act is hereby adopted by reference.
The regulatory provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time
to time, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating the use of
highways, streets and alleys within the city and are hereby incorporated in and
made a part of this section as completely as if set out in full herein.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of the provisions of state statutes adopted
by reference in this section shall be identical with the penalty provided for
in the statutes for the same offense.
§ 70.02 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council by resolution may designate streets on which travel
by commercial vehicles in excess of 10,000 pounds axle weight is prohibited.
The Chief of Police shall cause appropriate signs to be erected on those
streets. No person shall operate a commercial vehicle on posted streets in
violation of the restrictions posted.
   (B)   The weight restrictions established in division (A) shall not apply to
city or emergency vehicles, public school buses or to garbage and refuse trucks
making regular collections and are under contract with the city, nor shall the
weight restrictions in division (A) apply if a commercial vehicle must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pick-up or delivery.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.03 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The city may designate intersections as a stop intersection and require all
vehicles to stop at 1 or more entrances to those intersections. The city shall
post signs at those designated intersections, giving notice of the designation
as a stop intersection. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the
markings or signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.04 THROUGH STREETS AND ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The City Council by resolution may designate any street or portion of a
street as a through street or one-way street where necessary to preserve the
free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents. No trunk highway shall be so
designated unless the consent of the Commissioner of Transportation to the
designation is first secured. The city shall cause appropriate signs to be
posted at the entrance to designated streets. It shall be unlawful for any
person to fail to obey the markings or signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.05 TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council by resolution may, whenever necessary to
preserve a free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents, designate any
intersection as one where turning of vehicles to the left or to the right, or
both, is to be restricted at all times or during specified hours. No
intersection on a trunk highway shall be so designated until the consent of the
Commissioner of Transportation to the designation is first obtained.
      (2)   The city shall mark by appropriate signs any intersection so
designated.
      (3)   No person shall turn a vehicle at any intersection contrary to the
direction on those signs.
   (B)   Except at intersections, and then only if not posted otherwise, it
shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle on any street to
cross the center of the street for the purpose of parking on the side of the
street opposite the original direction of travel.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle on any
street to back up or drive from a parked position and commence travel in the
opposite direction from which the motor vehicle faced when parked.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.06 U-TURNS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall turn a vehicle so as to reverse its direction on any street
in the business district or at any intersection where traffic is regulated by a
traffic control signal.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.07 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   As used in this section, LIGHT-MOTOR VEHICLES means any automobile,
van, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, motor scooter, go-cart, minibike, trail
bike, or truck with a gross vehicular weight of less than 10,000 pounds.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or cause to operate,
or use a light-motor vehicle in a manner as to cause, or allow to be caused,
excessive noise levels as a result of unreasonable rapid accelerations,
deceleration, revving of engine, squealing of tires, honking of horns, or as a
result of the operation of audio devices including but not limited to radios,
phonograph, tape players, compact disc players or any other sound-amplifying
device on or from the light-motor vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor
vehicle in violation of the noise standards contained in Minn. Rules parts
7030.1050 and 7030.1060, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   No person shall operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor
vehicle that discharges its exhaust other than through a muffler or other
device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises. No person shall
operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor vehicle whose exhaust system
has been modified, altered, or repaired in any way, including the use of a
muffler cut-out or by-pass, that amplifies or otherwise increases noise above
that emitted by the light-motor vehicle as originally equipped. 
   (E)   The following are exempted from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Burglar alarms on light-motor vehicles of the electronic signaling
type which also transmit an audible signal to a receiver which can be carried
by the owner or operator of the vehicle; and
      (3)   Celebrations on Halloween and other legal holidays and celebrations
in connection with duly authorized parades.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.08 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Unreasonable squealing or screeching
sounds emitted by tires or the unreasonable throwing of sand or gravel by the
tires is prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.09 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, CRUISING means the operation of a motor
vehicle as defined in M.S. § 169.01, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, past a traffic control point as determined by a peace officer on a street
in an area designated “No Cruising Zone” by City Council resolution 4 or more
times between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 3:30 a.m.
   (B)   The passing of a traffic control point under the conditions previously
stated, shall constitute unnecessary repetitive driving and is a violation of
this section.
   (C)   The following use of vehicles shall constitute valid exceptions to
this prohibition: taxicabs for hire, buses, authorized emergency vehicle,
vehicles use used by or under contract with any governmental jurisdiction, any
vehicle being used to conduct legitimate business activities.
   (D)   This section may be enforced only in an area that has been posted as a
“No Cruising Zone.” Signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end of any
public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof which is a no cruising
zone.
§ 70.10 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following phrases
are defined as follows:
      ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. 
         (a)   Distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's value;
         (b)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working order; or
         (c)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693 and Minn.
Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as this statute and these rules may be
amended from time to time, which establish motor vehicle noise standards.
      ENGINE-RETARDING BRAKE. A dynamic brake, jake brake, Jacobs brake, C-
brake, Paccar brake, transmission brake or other similar engine-retarding brake
system which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust or permit
the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except through a muffler
that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies with all
applicable state laws and regulations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to intentionally
use an engine-retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot or
alley within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine
because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system, except in an
emergency.
   (D)   Minnesota Statutes §§ 169.69 and 169.693 (motor vehicle noise limits)
and Minn. Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as these statutes and rules
may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference.
   (E)   Signs stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” may be installed at
locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise motorists of the
prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign stating “VEHICLE
NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” shall be installed on a state highway without a permit
from the Minnesota Department of Transportation. The provisions of this section
are in full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   No parking where posted
   
71.02   Limited parking
   
71.03   Other parking restrictions
   
71.04   Declaration of snow emergency; parking prohibited
   
71.05   Parking certain semi-trailers or tractors on public streets prohibited
   
71.06   Overnight parking
   
71.07   Repairing of vehicles
   
71.08   Prohibiting parking areas in front yards in residential zones
   
71.09   Impoundment
   
71.10   Prima facie violation
§ 71.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
city at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks, or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit these acts.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
city where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may by resolution order the placing of signs, devices
or marks, or the painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion,
as evidenced by a finding in its official minutes, the stopping, standing or
parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement
of traffic. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be official signs,
devices, marks or painting, and no person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle
in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated thereby.
   (B)   “No parking” signs may be placed by city employees on any street of
the city to permit construction, repair, snow removal, street cleaning or
similar temporary activities. While the signs are in place, it shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle on the streets or portion thereof so posted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park in an area designated by
Council resolution and posted as a fire lane.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a vehicle or permit it to
stand, whether attended or unattended, on an alley within the city, provided
that this does not prohibit the parking of vehicles for less than 1 hour on an
alley for the purpose of access to abutting property for loading or unloading
merchandise or other material when parking on the property itself is not
available.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a motor vehicle in an area
designated by posted signs pursuant to Council resolution for certain types of
vehicles, unless the motor vehicle is one of the types of vehicles specifically
permitted.
   (F)   Every vehicle parked upon any street with a curb shall be parked
parallel to the curb, unless angle parking is designated by appropriate signs
or markings. On streets with a curb, the right-hand wheels of any vehicle
parked shall be within 1 foot of the curb. On streets without a curb, the
vehicle shall be parked to the right of the main traveled portion of the street
and parallel to it and in such a manner as not to interfere with the free flow
of traffic, unless angle parking is designated by appropriate signs or
markings.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.04 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY; PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Mayor, Police Chief or other designated official may declare a
snow emergency in the city. The emergency shall continue in effect for a period
of 24 hours or until the snow has been removed from the city's streets or until
the snow emergency has been rescinded by action of the Mayor, Police Chief or
other designated officer.
   (B)   Notice of the declaration of a snow emergency shall be given by
notifying the local news media; however, the notification shall be a service
aid only and not a duty on the part of the officials.
   (C)   During a declared snow emergency, no motor vehicle shall be left
parked on any street or public way in the city until that street or public way
has been cleared of snow.
   (D)   During a declared snow emergency, any police officer who finds a motor
vehicle in violation of this section shall attempt to contact the owner of the
motor vehicle and require the owner to immediately move the motor vehicle so as
not to be in violation of this section. If the owner does not immediately
remove the motor vehicle or the owner cannot be located, the police officer is
authorized to have the motor vehicle removed at the owner's expense.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.05 PARKING CERTAIN SEMI-TRAILERS OR TRACTORS ON PUBLIC STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a semi-tractor or trailer, or any truck rated with a
gross vehicle weight in excess of 10,000 pounds, in any area of the city zoned
for residential use or other area designated by City Council resolution except
when the vehicle is parked in a completely enclosed garage.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.06 OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   The following vehicles shall not be allowed to park on city streets
overnight: repair, unless repair work is being performed at the address at
which the vehicle is parked, delivery, rented vehicles with commercial plates
and refuse and recycling haulers or any other vehicle not registered as a
passenger vehicle.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.07 REPAIRING OF VEHICLES.
   Minor repairs and tune-ups, such as replacement of spark plugs, spark plug
wires, thermostat, radiator or heater hoses, oil changes and brake jobs shall
be permitted on city streets; provided, that they can be accomplished within
the same day and completed by 10:00 p.m. All other repairs shall be considered
major repairs and shall not be permitted on any city street, unless the repairs
are made within an enclosed structure allowed within the zoning district.
Damage to city streets because of repairs or lack of repairs shall be charged
to the person responsible for the damage to the city streets.
§ 71.08 PROHIBITING PARKING AREAS IN FRONT YARDS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   The construction, operation or maintaining a parking area, either
paved or unpaved, in the front yard of any lot is prohibited in any area zoned
for residential use. For the purpose of this section, front yard shall mean and
include that area between the sidewalk, or street line in the event there is no
sidewalk, and the front line of the principal building, extending in both
directions to the side lot lines.
   (B)   Use of that portion of a vacant lot within 30 feet of the sidewalk
lines for parking in an area zoned for residential use is prohibited.
   (C)   Driveways in any area zoned for residential use shall not exceed 25%
of the width at the front or side lot line. Where more than 1 driveway is
desired or required, they shall be at least 70 feet apart.
   (D)   The front part of any lot shall not be used for the parking of an
automobile, truck, trailer, tractor, recreational vehicle, camper, travel
trailer, camper top, tent, wagon, boat, boat trailer, storage area or motor
home.
   (E)   No person, being the owner or having control of any building, shall
violate or fail to conform to any provision of this section, or fail to obey
any lawful order of an officer charged with its enforcement. Each and every day
on which any person continues to violate the provisions of this section, after
having been notified of the violation, shall constitute a separate offense.
This conviction shall not relieve any person from thereafter complying with the
provisions of this section, and shall be sufficient cause to refuse further
building or land use permits to the offender until a time as the orders have
been complied with.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.09 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any police officer may order the removal of a vehicle from a street to a
garage or other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended and
constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal, street
improvements or maintenance operations. The vehicle shall not be released until
the fees for towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed for
violation of this chapter.
§ 71.10 PRIMA FACIE VIOLATIONS.
   The presence of any motor vehicle on any street when standing or parked in
violation of this chapter is prima facie evidence that the registered owner of
the vehicle committed or authorized the commission of the violation.
CHAPTER 72: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
72.01   Intent
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Application of traffic ordinances
   
72.04   Restrictions
   
72.05   Stopping and yielding
   
72.06   Persons under 18
   
72.07   Equipment
   
72.08   Unattended snowmobiles
   
72.09   Emergency operation permitted
§ 72.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to supplement M.S. §§ 84.81 to 84.91, and
M.S. Chapter 169, as these statutes may be amended from time to time and Minn.
Rules parts 6100.5000 through 6100.6000, as these rules may be amended from
time to time, with respect to the operation of snowmobiles. These statutes and
rules are incorporated herein by reference. This section is not intended to
allow what the state statutes and rules prohibit, nor to prohibit what the
state statutes and rules allow.
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEADMAN THROTTLE or SAFETY THROTTLE. A device which, when pressure is
removed from the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be
disengaged from the driving mechanism.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder having the property in or title to
a snowmobile, or entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its
agencies and subdivision, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a highway or street in
which the public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway or street improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice,
steered by skis or runners.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare, roadway, alley or trail used for motor
vehicular traffic which is not an interstate, trunk, county-state aid, or
county highway.
§ 72.03 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of
Ch. 70 of this code shall apply to the operation of snowmobiles upon streets
and highways, except for those relating to required equipment, and except those
which by their nature have no application.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to enter, operate or stop a snowmobile
within the limits of the city:
      (1)   On the roadway of any street, except the most right hand lane then
available for traffic or as close as practicable to right hand curb or edge of
the roadway, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle stopped in the
lane or proceeding in the same direction, or in making a left turn. Snowmobiles
may also be operated upon the outside slope of trunk, county-state aid and
county highways where the highways are so configured within the corporate
limits.
      (2)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel.
      (3)   On boulevards within any public right-of-way.
      (4)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of the property.
      (5)   Upon any school grounds, except as permission is expressly obtained
from responsible school authorities.
      (6)   On public property, playgrounds and recreation areas, except areas
previously listed or authorized for the use by resolution of the City Council,
in which case the use shall be lawful, and snowmobiles may be driven in and out
of those areas by the shortest route.
      (7)   On streets as permitted by this chapter at a speed exceeding 10
miles per hour.
      (8)   During the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., closer than 100 feet
to any dwelling except this provision is not intended to prohibit snowmobiles
from operating on city streets during the hours specified herein nor is it
intended to prohibit snowmobiles from following a direct route from a permitted
snowmobiling area to the operator’s home.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the
limits of the city:
      (1)   So as to tow any person or thing in a public street or highway
except through use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile;
provided, that a disabled snowmobile may be towed to a private residence or a
place of business where snowmobiles are repaired without the use of a rigid tow
bar.
      (2)   Within 100 feet of any fisherman, pedestrian, skating rink or
sliding area where the operation would conflict with use or endanger other
persons or operation.
      (3)   To intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.05 STOPPING AND YIELDING.
   No snowmobile shall enter any uncontrolled intersection without making a
complete stop. The operator shall then yield the right-of-way to any vehicles
or pedestrians at the intersection, or so close to the intersection as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.06 PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   No person under 14 years of age shall operate on streets or make a
direct crossing of a city street as the operator of a snowmobile. A person 14
years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may operate a snowmobile
on streets as permitted under this chapter and make a direct crossing of those
streets only if he or she has in his or her immediate possession a valid
snowmobile safety certificate issued pursuant to M.S. § 84.872, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile
to be operated contrary to the provision of this section.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.07 EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile any place within the
limits of the city unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass straight pipe or similar device on a
snowmobile motor.
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any condition of operation.
   (C)   A safety or so called deadman throttle in operating condition.
   (D)   When operated between the hours of 1/2 hour after sunset to 1/2 hour
before sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility, at least 1 clear lamp
attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness under
normal atmospheric conditions. The head lamp shall be so aimed that glaring
rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming snowmobile operator. It
shall also be equipped with at least 1 red light plainly visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions.
   (E)   Snowmobiles shall fly a pennant flag or red or blaze material, of a
size not less than 12 inches by 9 inches, at a height of not less than 6 feet
from ground level at any time when the vehicle is operated on public streets.
   (F)   Reflective material at least 16 square inches on each side, forward of
the handlebars and at the highest practical point on any towed object, so as to
reflect lights at a 90-degree angle.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.08 UNATTENDED SNOWMOBILES.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile on a public place shall lock the ignition,
remove the key and take the same with him or her.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.09 EMERGENCY OPERATION PERMITTED.
   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this chapter, a snowmobile may be
operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time and
at locations where snow upon the roadway renders travel by automobile
impractical.
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Purpose and intent
   
73.02   Definition
   
73.03   Operation requirements
   
73.04   Street crossings
   
73.05   Hours of operation
   
73.06   Minimum equipment requirements
   
73.07   Designation of public areas for use
   
73.08   Motorized golf carts
§ 73.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide reasonable regulations
for the use of recreational motor vehicles on public and private property in
the city.
      (2)   This chapter is not intended to allow what the Minnesota Statutes
prohibit nor to prohibit what the Minnesota Statutes expressly allow.
   (B)   It is intended to ensure the public safety and prevent a public
nuisance.
§ 73.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle and any vehicle
propelled or drawn by a self-propelled vehicle used for recreational purposes
including, but not limited to trail bike, off-highway motorcycle, as defined by
M.S. § 84.787, Subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time, or other all-
terrain vehicle as defined by M.S. § 84.92, Subd. 8, it may be amended from
time to time, motorized go-carts, hovercraft or motor vehicle licensed for
highway operation which is being used for off-road recreational purposes.
§ 73.03 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a recreational motor vehicle:
   (A)   On private property of another without specific written permission of
the owner of the property; (Written permission may be given by a posted notice
of any kind or description, so long as it specifies the kind of vehicles
allowed, that the owner, occupant or lessee prefers, such as by saying
“Recreational Vehicles Allowed,” “Trail Bikes Allowed,” “All-Terrain Vehicles
Allowed” or words substantially similar.)
   (B)   On publicly-owned land, including school, park property, playgrounds,
recreation areas and golf courses, except where permitted by this chapter;
   (C)   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which
disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons;
   (D)   On a public sidewalk or walkway provided or used for pedestrian
travel;
   (E)   At a place while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
narcotics or habit-forming drugs;
   (F)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the
surrounding circumstances;
   (G)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property or to cause injury or
damage thereto;
   (H)   On any public street, highway or right-of-way unless licensed pursuant
to Minnesota law;
   (I)   To intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal, wild or
domestic;
   (J)   By halting any recreational motor vehicle carelessly or heedlessly in
disregard of the rights or the safety of others or in a manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property or in excess of 25
miles per hour on publicly-owned lands; and/or
   (K)   Within 150 yards of any public recreational area or gathering of
people. This provision does not apply to the occasional use of recreational
motor vehicles on private property for the purpose of loading or unloading it
from a trailer or for mechanically checking it.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.04 STREET CROSSINGS.
   No person under 14 years of age operating the vehicles regulated herein
shall make a direct crossing of any street, highway or public right-of-way.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Hours for use are 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.06 MINIMUM EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Standard mufflers shall be properly attached and in constant operation
to reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for
operation. No person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, straight pipe or
similar device on a recreational motor vehicle motor. The exhaust system shall
not emit or produce a sharp popping or crackling sound.
   (B)   Brakes shall be adequate to control the movement of and to stop and
hold under any conditions of operation.
   (C)   At least 1 clear lamp shall be attached to the front with sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. The
head lamp shall be so that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an
oncoming vehicle operator. It shall also be equipped with at least 1 red tail
lamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red
light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during the hours
of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. This equipment shall be
required and shall be in operating condition when the vehicle is operated
between the hours of 1/2 hour after sunset and 1/2 hour before sunrise, or at
times of reduced visibility.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.07 DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC AREAS FOR USE.
   (A)   The Council may designate areas for use of recreational motor vehicles
by approval of a majority of the members of the City Council. The areas
designated may be changed from time to time by the City Council. Any area
designated shall be published in the official newspaper of the city in a
conspicuous place after the approval. If an area is changed, the change shall
be published in like manner in the official newspaper of the city. An up-to-
date map of any designated park areas open for recreational motor vehicle use
shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk, who shall provide on
request a copy of the map together with the applicable rules, regulations and
this chapter to each person requesting the information from the city.
   (B)   Unless designated by the City Council as an area for recreational
motor vehicles, the use on city park property shall be unlawful. Further, the
use of city parks designated by the City Council shall be in accordance with
all of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.08 MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart on streets,
alleys, sidewalks or other public property without obtaining a permit as
provided herein.
      (2)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by
the city and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The nature of the applicant's physical handicap, if any;
         (c)   Model name, make and year and number of the motorized golf cart;
         (d)   Current driver's license or reason for not having a current
license; and
         (e)   Other information as the city may require.
      (3)   The annual permit fee shall be as set by Council from time to time.
      (4)   Permits shall be granted for a period of 1 year and may be renewed
annually January 1 to December 31.
      (5)   No permit shall be granted or renewed unless the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   The applicant must demonstrate that he or she currently holds or
has held a valid Minnesota driver's license;
         (b)   The applicant may be required to submit a certificate signed by
a physician that the applicant is able to safely operate a motorized golf cart
on the roadways designated;
         (c)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance
with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes concerning insurance coverage for the
golf cart;
         (d)   The applicant has not had his or her driver's license revoked as
the result of criminal proceedings.
      (6)   Motorized golf carts are permitted to operate only on city streets,
not state or federal highways, except to cross at designated intersections.
      (7)   Motorized golf carts may only be operated on designated roadways
from sunrise to sunset. They shall not be operated in inclement weather
conditions or at any time when there is insufficient light to clearly see
persons and vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
      (8)   Motorized golf carts shall display the slow-moving vehicle emblem
provided for in M.S. § 169.522, as it may be amended from time to time, when
operated on designated roadways.
      (9)   Motorized golf carts shall be equipped with a wing-style rear view
mirror to provide the driver with adequate vision from behind.
      (10)   The operator of a motorized golf cart may cross any street or
highway intersecting a designated roadway.
      (11)   Every person operating a motorized golf cart under permit on
designated roadways has all the rights and duties applicable to the driver of
any other vehicle under the provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be
amended from time to time, except when these provisions cannot reasonably be
applied to motorized golf carts and except as otherwise specifically provided
in M.S. § 169.045(7), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (12)   The City Council or Police Department may suspend or revoke a
permit granted hereunder upon a finding that the holder thereof has violated
any of the provisions of this section or M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended
from time to time, or if there is evidence that the permit holder cannot safely
operate the motorized golf cart on the designated roadways.
      (13)   The number of occupants in the golf cart may not exceed the design
occupant load.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. The person driving and having physical control over the motorized
golf cart and being the licensee.
   MOTORIZED GOLF CART. Any passenger conveyance being driven with 4 wheels
with 4 low pressure tires that is limited in engine displacement of less than
800 cubic centimeters and total dry weight less than 800 pounds.
(Am. Ord. 138, passed 8-3-2015)
CHAPTER 74: BICYCLES, ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER SKIS AND SKATEBOARDS
Section
Bicycles
   
74.01   Definition
   
74.02   Traffic laws apply
   
74.03   Manner and number riding
   
74.04   Hitching rides
   
74.05   Where to ride
   
74.06   Right-of-way; sidewalks
   
74.07   Carrying articles
   
74.08   Lighting and brake equipment
   
74.09    Sale with reflectors
Roller Blades, Roller Skates, Roller Skis and Skateboards
   
74.25   Definitions
   
74.26   Unlawful acts
   
74.27   Right-of-way
   
74.28   Hours of use
 
   
74.99    Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 74.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled solely by human power upon which any person
may ride, having 2 tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices, and
including any device generally recognized as a BICYCLE though equipped with 2
front or rear wheels.
§ 74.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle on a street or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles shall be granted all of the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this
title, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to those
provisions of this chapter which by their nature can have no application.
§ 74.03 MANNER AND NUMBER RIDING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person propelling a bicycle to ride other than
upon or astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at 1 time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except on a baby seat attached to
the bicycle, provided that the seat is equipped with a harness to hold the
child securely in the seat and that protection is provided against the child's
feet hitting the spokes of the wheel, or in a seat attached to the bicycle
operator.
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.04 HITCHING RIDES.
   It is unlawful for any person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, roller blades, skate board, sled, or toy vehicle to attach the same or
themselves to any vehicle upon a street.
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.05 WHERE TO RIDE.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a street shall ride as near to
the right side of the street as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a street shall not ride more than 2
abreast except on paths or parts of streets set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.06 RIGHT-OF-WAY; SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before
overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.07 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to carry any package,
bundle, or article which prevents the driver from keeping at least 1 hand upon
the handlebars.
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.08 LIGHTING AND BRAKE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at night time, shall be equipped with, or
its operator shall carry a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front, and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type approved by the Department of Public Safety
which is visible from all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector. No person may, at any other time when
there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and
vehicles on the highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead, operate a bicycle
unless the bicycle or its operator is equipped with reflective surfaces that
shall be visible during the hours of darkness from 600 feet when viewed in
front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. The reflective
surfaces shall include reflective materials on each side of each pedal to
indicate their presence from the front or the rear and with a minimum of 20
square inches on each side of the bicycle or its operator of white reflective
material. All reflective materials used in compliance with this section shall
meet the requirements as prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.09 SALE WITH REFLECTORS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any new bicycle
unless it is equipped with such reflectors as are prescribed in §
74.08.
Penalty, see § 74.99
ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER SKIS AND SKATEBOARDS
§ 74.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. That part of the City so designated by council
resolution.
   OPERATE. To ride on or upon or control the operation of roller blades,
roller skates, or a skateboard.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of
roller blades, roller skates, or a skateboard.
   ROLLER BLADES/ROLLER SKATES. A shoe with wheels attached or a device with
wheels  which is designed to be attached to a shoe.
   ROLLER SKIS. A pair of skis platformed with wheels attached which is
intended to simulate skiing.
   SKATEBOARD. A device for riding-upon, usually while standing, consisting of
an oblong piece of wood, or of other composition, mounted on skate wheels.
§ 74.26 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate roller blades, roller skates,
roller skis or a skateboard under the circumstances set forth hereafter:
      (1)   On private property of another without the express permission to do
so by the owner or occupant of the property; or
      (2)   In any careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger the safety of any person or property of any other person.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person operating roller blades, roller skates,
roller skis or a skateboard to attach the same, or the person of the operator,
to any vehicle upon a street.
   (C)   Every person operating roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or a
skateboard upon a street shall ride as close as possible to the right-hand curb
or edge of the street.
   (D)   Every person operating roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or a
skateboard upon a street shall observe the same rules of the road as required
of bicycles, pursuant to M.S. § 169.222, as it may be amended from time to
time.
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.27 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The operator of roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or a skateboard
emerging from any alley, driveway, or building, upon approaching a sidewalk or
the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, shall yield the right-of-way
to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and upon
entering the street shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on
the street.
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.28 HOURS OF USE.
   It is unlawful for any person to use roller blades, roller skates, roller
skis or a skateboard upon a public street, sidewalk, or other roadway from 10:
00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., except on private property with express permission of
owner, and except if the roller blades, roller skates, roller skis, skateboard
or operator are equipped with reflective surfaces that shall be visible during
the hours of darkness from 600 feet when viewed in front of lawful lower beams
of head lamps on a motor vehicle. The reflective material shall be a minimum of
40 square inches. All reflective materials used in compliance with this section
shall meet the requirements as prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
Penalty, see § 74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   A person apprehended by a peace officer in violation of the provisions of
this chapter does, by his or her use of the public sidewalks, streets, and
public parking lots, consent to the impoundment by a police officer of the
roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or skateboard for a period of 3 days
upon a first offense, a week upon the second offense and 30 days upon a third
or additional offense. Any operator aggrieved by the impoundment of his or her
roller blades, roller skates roller skis or skateboard may petition the Council
for a hearing thereon at the next regular Council meeting following the
impoundment. This provision is in addition to the provisions for fines and
penalties as set forth in §
10.99.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
         
91.   DRUG LABS AND CHEMICAL DUMPS
         
92.   ANIMALS
         
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
94.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Burning of Solid Fuels
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Permit required
   
90.03   Other requirements
   
90.04   Effective date
Emergency Fire Protection Services
   
90.20   Purpose and intent
   
90.21   Definitions
   
90.22   Parties affected
   
90.23   Rates
   
90.24   Billing and collection
   
90.25   Mutual aid agreements
   
90.26   Application of collections to budget
   
90.27   Effective date
 
   
90.99   Penalty
BURNING OF SOLID FUELS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE FUEL BURNING DEVICES. A burning device that burns any substance
other than natural gas, propane, or fuel oil. ALTERNATIVE FUEL BURNING DEVICES
may include, but are not limited to, wood burning fireplaces or wood stoves,
corn stoves or pellet stoves.
   EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE. A device designed for external
solid fuel combustion so that usable heat is derived for the interior of a
building, and includes solid fuel-fired stoves, solid fuel-fired cooking
stoves, and combination fuel furnaces or boilers which burn solid fuel.
EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICES do not include natural gas-fired
fireplace logs or wood-burning fireplaces or wood stoves, corn stove or pellet
stoves in the interior of a dwelling.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, company, or other
association.
   STACKS OR CHIMNEYS. Any vertical structure incorporated into a building and
enclosing a flue or flues that carry off smoke or exhaust from a solid fuel-
fired heating device, especially, the part of such a structure extending above
a roof.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-8-2006)
§ 90.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The City of Amboy requires any person to obtain a zoning permit for any
external solid fuel-fired heating device or external storage unit that is sold
or purchased after the date this subchapter becomes effective. If the City
Council approves the device and the storage method for the fuel, it shall issue
a permit which shall specifically set out what has been approved. The device
and/or the storage method used by the landowner must comply with this permit.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-8-2006)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.03 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All alternative fuel burning devices or external solid fuel-fired
heating devices used, installed, or purchased within the city limits of Amboy,
Minnesota, are required to meet emission standards currently required by the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Underwriters Laboratories (UL)
listing. No person shall use an alternative or external solid fuel-fired
heating device in violation of this division (A).
   (B)   All outdoor external solid fuel-fired heating devices are subject to
public nuisance as described in
Chapter 94.
   (C)   Any dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities, or any use of an alternative fuel or external solid
fuel-fired heating device to burn solid fuels other than those solid fuels for
which the alternative fuel burning device or external solid fuel-fired heating
device was designed, is declared a public nuisance.
   (D)   All stacks or chimneys must be so constructed to withstand high winds
or other related elements and according to the specifications of the
manufacturer of the external solid fuel-fired heating device. All stacks or
chimneys must be of masonry or insulated metal with a minimum 6-inch flue. No
person shall use an alternative fuel or external solid fuel-fired heating
device in violation of this division (D).
   (E)   Only fuels designed for burning in an alternative fuel or external
solid fuel-fired heating device may be burned. No garbage may be burned and any
wood burning alternate fuel burning device or external solid fuel-fired heating
device shall use only non-treated wood and wood products or products approved
by the State of Minnesota for burning in wood burning devices. No person shall
use an alternative fuel or external solid fuel-fired heating device in
violation of this division (E).
   (F)   No person may use an external solid fuel-fired heating device in the
City of Amboy during the months of May, June, July, August, and September.
   (G)   External storage units for storage of any fuels associated with any
heating devices shall not include storage bins or wagons. All material stored
outside shall be stored so as not to create a habitat for mice, rats, or other
vermin. If the alternate fuel is wood, it shall be stored in a neat pile and
covered with some type of cover, such as a tarp. Wood shall not be stored in
the front yard nor shall wood piles encroach upon rights-of-way or other
landowners’ property. Allowed storage also includes interior storage within the
residence or garage, or a free-standing storage shed. The shed shall be subject
to the same setback requirements as the principal building. All types of fuel
shall be stored in a fashion that is consistent with a neat, clean, and orderly
neighborhood.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-8-2006)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect upon its passage and publication.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-8-2006)
EMERGENCY FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES
§ 90.20 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This subchapter is adopted for the purpose of establishing that the City of
Amboy will charge for all fire calls as allowed by M.S. § 415.01, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 119, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 90.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CALL. Any deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to
provide fire suppression, extinguishing of a fire, the performance of any
preventative measure in an effort to protect equipment, life, or property in an
area threatened by fire and to provide any other services related to fire as
may occasionally occur.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes any vehicle propelled or
drawn by a self-propelled vehicle. This includes semi-trailers.
(Ord. 119, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 90.22 PARTIES AFFECTED.
   (A)   City of Amboy residents who receive fire service for any type of fire
call;
   (B)   Township residents who receive fire service for any type of fire call
and whose township has entered into a fire service contract with the City of
Amboy;
   (C)   All fire calls in response to motor vehicle accidents or fires where
persons receiving service are either not residents of the City of Amboy or
residents of townships served by a fire contract with the City of Amboy; and
   (D)   All fire calls in response to grass fires and other natural disasters
as requested by the Department of Natural Resources and other state and federal
government units.
(Ord. 119, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 90.23 RATES.
   The Fire Department shall establish rates which shall be adopted by
resolution of the City Council. The rates will be kept on file at the Fire
Department and will apply to all parties affected.
(Ord. 119, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 90.24 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Parties receiving fire service via a fire call will be billed directly
by the Amboy Fire Department within 30 days of the fire call. If the party
receiving fire service does not initiate the contact for service but a fire or
other situation exists which, at the discretion of the Fire Department
personnel in charge, requires fire services and qualifies as a fire call as
defined in §
90.21, that party will be charged for a fire call.
   (B)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or fire, if more than 1 motor
vehicle is involved for which Fire Department service is provided, each motor
vehicle owner will be billed an equal share of the fire service charge.
   (C)   The party(s) billed for fire service will have 60 days to make payment
and if payment is not received, the fees and charges billed will be considered
delinquent.
   (D)   The City of Amboy will use all practical and reasonable legal means to
collect billed fire calls. The party receiving the fire service shall be liable
for all cost of collection incurred by the city including, but not limited to,
reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
   (E)   Billing may be directed to the insurance carrier as a reasonable
effort by the city to assist the party who received the fire service. Any
billable amount of the fire call not covered by a party’s applicable insurance
remains a debt of the party receiving fire service.
   (F)   False alarms will be billed as a fire call after the first call to the
property within the calendar year.
(Ord. 119, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 90.25 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   On fire calls where the City of Amboy provides mutual aid to another Fire
Department, the associated billing will be determined by the Mutual Aid
Agreement with that Fire Department.
(Ord. 119, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 90.26 APPLICATION OF COLLECTIONS TO BUDGET.
   All revenues generated by the paid billable fire calls will be used to
offset the expenses of the City of Amboy Fire Department.
(Ord. 119, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 90.27 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective upon its passage and publication
according to law.
(Ord. 119, passed 1-3-2005)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter for which a penalty is not provided
shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
90.01 through
90.04 is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-8-2006)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 91: DRUG LABS AND CHEMICAL DUMPS
Section
   
91.01   General provisions
   
91.02   Disclaimer of liability
   
91.03   Fees
   
91.04   Definitions
   
91.05   Declaration of site and contents as a public health nuisance
   
91.06   Law enforcement action
   
91.07   Seizure of property
   
91.08   Action by City Administrator
   
91.09   Site owner’s responsibility to act
   
91.10   Site owner’s responsibility for costs
   
91.11   City action and recovery of costs
   
91.12   Recovery of costs from persons causing damage
   
91.13   Site owners and address
   
91.14   Unauthorized removal of postings
   
91.15   Entry into or onto site
   
91.16   Removal of personal property from the site
   
91.17   Effective date
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this chapter is to reduce public
exposure to health risks where law enforcement officers have determined that
hazardous chemicals or residue from a suspected clandestine drug lab site or
associated dump site may exist. Professional reports, based on assessments,
testing, and investigations, show that chemicals used in the production of
illicit drugs can condense, penetrate, and contaminate surfaces, furnishings,
and equipment of surrounding structures. The City Council finds that the sites,
and the personal property within the sites, may contain suspected chemicals and
residues that place people, particularly children or adults of child-bearing
age, at risk when exposed through inhabiting or visiting the site or using or
being exposed to contaminated personal property.
   (B)   Interpretation and application. In the interpretation and application
of this chapter, the provisions herein shall be construed to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare. Where the conditions imposed by any provision of
this chapter are either more or less restrictive to the public than comparable
provisions imposed by any other law, ordinance, statute, or regulation of any
kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher
standards or requirements on the public shall prevail. Should any court of
competent jurisdiction declare any section or subpart of this chapter to be
invalid, the decision shall not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole
or any part thereof, other than the provision declared invalid.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 91.02 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Liability on the part of, or a cause of action against, the City of Amboy or
any employee or agent thereof for any damages that may result from reliance on
this chapter shall be eliminated or limited as provided by M.S. § 466.02, as it
may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 91.03 FEES.
   Fees for the administration of this chapter may be established and amended
periodically by resolution of the City of Amboy City Council.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 91.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHEMICAL DUMP SITE. Any place or area where chemicals or other waste
materials used in a clandestine drug lab operation have been located.
   CHILD. Any person less than 18 years of age.
   CITY. The City of Amboy.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB OPERATION. The unlawful manufacture or attempt to
manufacture a controlled substance.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE. Any place or area where law enforcement has
determined that conditions associated with an unlawful clandestine drug lab
operation exist. A clandestine drug lab site may include dwellings, accessory
buildings, structures or units, a chemical dump site, a vehicle, boat, trailer
or other appliance or any other area or location.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug, substance, or immediate precursor in
Schedules I through V of M.S. § 152.02, as it may be amended from time to time,
together with any amendments or modifications thereto. The term shall not
include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages, intoxicating liquors, or
tobacco.
   HAZARDOUS DRUG WASTE. Waste generated from a clandestine drug lab operation.
   MANUFACTURE. In places other than a pharmacy, shall mean and include the
production, cultivation, quality control, and standardization, by mechanical,
physical, chemical, or pharmaceutical means, and the packing, repacking,
tableting, encapsulating, labeling, relabeling, or filling of drugs.
   OWNER. Any person(s), firm(s), corporation(s), or other entity who or which
owns, in whole or in part, the land, building, structure, vehicle, boat,
trailer, or other location associated with a clandestine drug lab site or
chemical dump site.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 91.05 DECLARATION OF SITE AND CONTENTS AS A PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   All dwellings, accessory structures, buildings, vehicles, boats, trailers,
personal property, adjacent property or other locations, associated with a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site are potentially unsafe due to
health hazards and are hereby declared to be a public health nuisance.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.06 LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   (A)   If law enforcement authorities determine the existence of a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site, the site, and all personal
property therein, shall be declared a public health nuisance. Law enforcement
authorities who identify conditions associated with a clandestine drug lab site
or chemical dump site which may place neighbors, the visiting public, or
present and future occupants of the site at risk for exposure to harmful
contaminants and other associated conditions are mandated to take the following
action:
      (1)   Promptly notify the City Council, public health authorities and the
appropriate enforcement division of the Drug Enforcement Administration of the
U.S. Justice Department of the location of the site, and the owner if known, of
the conditions found;
      (2)   Treat, store, transport, or dispose of all household hazardous
waste found at the site in a manner consistent with Minnesota Department of
Health, Minnesota Pollution Control, and Blue Earth County Health Department
rules and regulations;
      (3)   Issue a temporary declaration of public health nuisance for the
affected site and post a copy of the declaration on all doorway entrances to
the site or, in the case of bare land, post the declaration in several
conspicuous places on the property. This temporary Declaration of Public Health
Nuisance issued by law enforcement shall expire after the City Administrator
determines the appropriateness of issuing a permanent declaration of public
health nuisance;
      (4)   Notify all persons occupying the site that a temporary declaration
of public health nuisance has been issued;
      (5)   Require all persons occupying the site to immediately vacate the
site, remove all pets from the site, and not return without written
authorization from the City Administrator;
      (6)   Notify all occupants vacating the site that all personal property
at the site may be contaminated with dangerous chemical residue; and
      (7)   Put locks on each doorway entrance to the site to prohibit people
from entering the site without authorization after all occupants of the site
have vacated.
   (B)   The obligation to promptly notify the persons and organizations
mentioned above may be delayed to accomplish appropriate law enforcement
objectives, but only to the extent that public health and child protection
responsibilities are not unnecessarily compromised.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.07 SEIZURE OF PROPERTY.
   When the clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site is inside a
vehicle, boat, trailer or other form of moveable personal property, law
enforcement authorities shall immediately seize it and not allow it to be
transported except to a more secure location. In the circumstances, all other
requirements of this chapter shall be followed as closely as possible given the
specific type of property in which the site is discovered.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 91.08 ACTION BY CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Declaration of Nuisance. Within 48 hours of notification that law
enforcement authorities have determined the existence of a clandestine drug lab
site or chemical dump site, the City Administrator shall determine the
appropriate scope of a permanent declaration of public health nuisance. Based
on the results of the determination, the City Administrator may then promptly
issue a permanent declaration of public health nuisance and a “Do Not Enter –
Unsafe to Occupy Order” for the affected site to replace the temporary
declaration issued and posted by law enforcement. A copy of the permanent
declaration and order shall be posted on all doorway entrances to the site or,
in the case of bare land, shall be posted in several conspicuous places on the
property.
   (B)   Abatement order. After the permanent declaration of public health
nuisance has been issued and posted, the City Administrator shall send written
notice to the site owner ordering abatement of the public health nuisance. The
abatement order shall include the following information:
      (1)   A copy of the declaration of public health nuisance and “Do Not
Enter – Unsafe to Occupy Order;”
      (2)   Information about the potentially hazardous condition of the site;
and
      (3)   A summary of the site owner’s and occupant’s responsibilities under
this chapter; and information that may help the owner locate appropriate
services necessary to abate the public health nuisance.
   (C)   Notice to concerned parties. The City Administrator shall also mail a
copy of the permanent declaration of public health nuisance, a copy of this
chapter, and a notification of the suspension of the site’s rental license, if
applicable, to the following concerned parties at their last known address:
      (1)   Occupants or residents of the site if the identities of the persons
are known;
      (2)   Neighbors in proximity to the site who may be reasonably affected
by the conditions found;
      (3)   The Amboy City Council;
      (4)   The Public Safety Department of Amboy and Vernon Center;
      (5)   Minnesota River Valley Drug Task Force;
      (6)   The appropriate enforcement division of the Drug Enforcement
Administration of the U.S. Justice Department; and
      (7)   Other city, state, and local authorities, such as the City Water
Department, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, the Minnesota Department of
Health, and the Department of Natural Resources which are known to have public
and protection responsibilities that are applicable to the situation.
   (D)   Modification or removal of declaration. The City Administrator is
authorized to modify or remove the declaration of public health nuisance after
the City Administrator receives documentation from a city approved
environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm stating that the suspected
health and safety risks, including those to neighbors and potential dwelling
occupants, either do not exist or have been sufficiently abated or corrected to
justify amendment or removal of the declaration.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 91.09 SITE OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY TO ACT.
   (A)   Within 10 business days of the date the abatement order is mailed to
the owner of the site, the owner shall accomplish the following:
      (1)   Provide the City Administrator with written notification:
         (a)   That the owner has confirmed that all persons and their pets
have vacated the site;
         (b)   Of the name(s) of all children who the owner believes were
residing at the site during the time period the clandestine drug lab or
chemical dump site is suspected to have been at the site; and
         (c)   That the site will remain vacated and secured until the public
health nuisance is completely abated as required by this chapter.
      (2)   Contract with 1 or more city approved environmental hazard testing
and cleaning firms to conduct the following work in accordance with the most
current Minnesota Department of Health guidelines:
         (a)   A detailed on-site assessment of the extent of contamination at
the site and the contamination of the personal property therein;
         (b)   Soil testing of the site and testing of all property and soil in
proximity to the site which the environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm
determines may have been affected by the conditions found at the site;
         (c)   A complete clean up of the site (including but not limited to
the clean up or removal of plumbing, ventilation systems, fixtures, and
contaminated soil) or a demolition of the site and a complete clean up of the
demolished site;
         (d)   A complete clean up, or disposal at an approved dump site, of
all personal property in the site;
         (e)   A complete clean up of all property and soil in proximity to the
site which is found to have been affected by the conditions found at the site;
and
         (f)   Remediation testing and follow-up testing, including but not
limited to testing of the ventilation system and plumbing, to determine that
all health risks are sufficiently reduced, according to Minnesota Department of
Health guidelines, to allow safe human occupancy and use of the site and use of
the personal property therein and of all property and soil in proximity to the
site.
      (3)   Provide the City Administrator with the identity of the testing and
cleaning firm with which the owner has contracted for abatement of the public
health nuisance as required above; and
      (4)   Sign an agreement with the City Administrator establishing a clean
up schedule. The schedule shall establish reasonable deadlines for completing
all actions required by this chapter for abatement of the public health
nuisance. In determining appropriate deadlines, the City Administrator shall
consider practical limitations and the availability of contractors in approving
the schedule for clean up.
   (B)   The site owner must meet all deadlines established on the clean up
schedule. Also, pursuant to the deadlines established by the clean up schedule,
the site owner is required to provide the City Administrator with written
documentation of the clean up process, including a signed statement from a city
approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm that the site, all
personal property therein and all property and soil in proximity to the site,
is safe for human occupancy and use and that the clean up was conducted in
accordance with the most current Minnesota Department of Health guidelines.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.10 SITE OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   The site owner shall be responsible for all costs, including those of
the city, of dealing with and abating the public health nuisance, including
contractor’s fees and the city’s costs for services performed in association
with the clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site clean up.
   (B)   The city’s costs may also include, but shall not be limited to:
      (1)   Posting of the site;
      (2)   Notification of affected parties;
      (3)   Securing the site, providing limited access to the site, and
prosecution of unauthorized persons found at the site;
      (4)   Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the assessment
process;
      (5)   Laboratory fees;
      (6)   Clean up services;
      (7)   Administrative fees;
      (8)   Legal fees; and
      (9)   Other associated costs.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 91.11 CITY ACTION AND RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   If the building’s owner fails to comply with any of the requirements
of this chapter, the City Administrator is authorized to take all reasonable
actions necessary to abate the public health nuisance including, but not
limited to, contracting with a city approved environmental hazard testing and
cleaning firm to conduct the work outlined in §
91.09(A)(2). The City Administrator is also authorized to provide a copy of the
declaration of public health nuisance to the lien and/or mortgage holders of
the affected site to help assure that persons with interest in the site have
access to information about the declaration of public health nuisance.
   (B)   If the costs to clean the site or to clean the personal property at
the site are prohibitively high in relation to the value of the site or the
personal property, the city is authorized to remove or demolish the site,
structure, or building and/or dispose of the personal property therein. These
actions shall be taken in accordance with the provisions of M.S. Chapter 463,
as it may be amended from time to time, together with any amendments or
modifications thereto.
   (C)   If the city abates the public health nuisance, in addition to any
other legal remedy, the city shall be entitled to recover all of its out of
pocket costs plus an additional 25% of the costs for administrative and legal
expense. The city may recover costs by civil action against the owner of the
site or by assessing the costs as a special charge against the site as taxes
and special assessments are certified and collected pursuant to M.S. § 429.101,
as it may be amended from time to time, or according to the provisions of M.S.
Chapter 463, as it may be amended from time to time, together with any
amendments or modifications thereto.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 91.12 RECOVERY OF COSTS FROM PERSONS CAUSING DAMAGE.
   No provisions of this chapter are intended to limit the site owner’s,
residents’ or the city’s right to recover costs incurred under this chapter
from either the persons contributing to the public health nuisance, such as the
operators of the clandestine drug lab, and/or from other lawful sources.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 91.13 SITE OWNERS AND ADDRESS.
   When the site is real property and the owner or the address of the owner of
the site is unknown, the owner and the owner’s address is deemed to be that of
the property’s taxpayer’s name and address as that information is maintained by
the Blue Earth County Taxpayer Services’ office. When the site is a vehicle,
boat, or trailer and the owner or the address of the owner of the site is
unknown, the owner and the owner’s address is deemed to be that of the person
on file as the owner on the current or most recent title to the vehicle, boat,
or trailer.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 91.14 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF POSTINGS.
   It is unlawful for any person, except authorized city personnel, to remove a
temporary or permanent declaration of public health nuisance and/or “Do Not
Enter – Unsafe to Occupy Order” from a chemical dump site or a clandestine drug
lab site.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.15 ENTRY INTO OR ONTO SITE.
   While a declaration of public health nuisance for an affected site is in
effect and has been posted at the site, no persons are permitted to be inside
the site, or on the site property without prior written consent of the City
Administrator or as otherwise authorized by this chapter. To confirm compliance
with this chapter and to execute their duties under this chapter, law
enforcement officers, the City Administrator, and any persons designated by the
City Administrator, may enter onto the site property or enter into the site at
any time while a declaration of public health nuisance is in effect for the
site.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.16 REMOVAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY FROM THE SITE.
   (A)   While a declaration of public health nuisance for an affected site is
in effect and has been posted at the site, no personal property may be removed
from the site without prior written consent from the Amboy City Administrator.
   (B)   Consent to remove personal property shall only be granted at the
reasonable discretion of the City Administrator, and only in cases of hardship
after:
      (1)   A city approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm has
advised the city, in writing, that the item(s) of personal property can be
sufficiently cleaned to remove all harmful contamination; and
      (2)   The owner of the personal property agrees in writing:
         (a)   That the owner is aware of the danger of using the contaminated
property;
         (b)   That the owner will thoroughly clean the property to remove all
contamination before the property is used; and
         (c)   That the owner releases and agrees to indemnify the city, its
staff, and the Amboy City Council from all liability to the owner and/or third
persons for injuries or damages caused, or alleged to have been caused, by the
contaminated property.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 91.17 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect the day following publication
in the city’s official newspaper.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor. In addition, the city shall be entitled to seek any other remedy
available at law or in equity in order to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the community, including temporary and permanent injunctions.
(Ord. 120, passed 4-4-2005)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
Animals, Dogs and Cats
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Dogs and cats
   
92.03   Non-domestic animals
   
92.04   Farm animals
   
92.05   Impounding
   
92.06   Kennels
   
92.07   Nuisances
   
92.08   Seizure of animals
   
92.09   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
92.10   Diseased animals
   
92.11   Dangerous animals
   
92.12   Dangerous animal requirements
   
92.13   Basic care
   
92.14   Breeding moratorium
   
92.15   Enforcing officer
   
92.16   Pound
   
92.17   Interference with officers
Wild Animals and Birds
   
92.30   Wild animals and birds
Chickens
   
92.40   Chickens
 
   
92.99   Penalty
ANIMALS, DOGS AND CATS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      (2)    FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, farm
animals shall include members of the equine family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, non-domestic animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
   BROODING. The period of chicken growth when supplemental heat must be
provided due to the bird's inability to generate enough body heat.
    CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   CHICKEN. A domesticated bird that serves as a source of eggs or meat.
   COOP. The structure for the keeping or housing of chickens permitted by
ordinance.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
(Am. Ord. 92.40, passed 4-13-2020)
§ 92.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A
person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a
responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a
responsible person, so as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash,
shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the city has posted an
area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited.”
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   All dogs over the age of 6 months kept, harbored, or maintained by
their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with the city. Dog
licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk upon payment of the license fee as
established by City Council from time to time. The owner shall state, at the
time application is made for the license and upon forms provided, his or her
name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned or kept
by him or her. No license shall be granted for a dog that has not been
vaccinated against distemper and rabies, as evidenced by a certificate by a
veterinarian qualified to practice in the state in which the dog is vaccinated.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog subject to this section
to pay to the City Clerk the license fee established by City Council from time
to time.
      (3)   Upon payment of the license fee as established by City Council from
time to time, the Clerk shall issue to the owner a license certificate and
metallic tag for each dog licensed. The tag shall have stamped on it the year
for which it is issued and the number corresponding with the number on the
certificate. Every owner shall be required to provide each dog with a collar to
which the license tag must be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag
are constantly worn. In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall
be issued by the City Clerk. A charge shall be made for each duplicate tag in
an amount established by City Council from time to time. Dog tags shall not be
transferable from 1 dog to another and no refunds shall be made on any dog
license fee or tag because of death of a dog or the owner's leaving the city
before the expiration of the license period.
      (4)   The licensing provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to
dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city, nor to dogs
brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog show. If the
animal owned is a service animal which is capable of being properly identified
as from a recognized school for seeing eye, hearing ear, service or guide
animals, and the owner is a blind or deaf person, or a person with physical or
sensory disabilities, then no license shall be required.
      (5)   The funds received by the City Clerk from all dog licenses and
metallic tags fees as established by City Council as it may be amended from
time to time, shall first be used to defray any costs incidental to the
enforcement of this chapter; including, but not restricted to, the costs of
licenses, metallic tags, and impounding and maintenance of the dogs.
   (C)   Cats. Cats shall be included as controlled by this division insofar as
running-at-large, pickup, impounding, boarding, licensing and proof of anti-
rabies vaccine is concerned. All other provisions of this section shall also
apply to cats unless otherwise provided.
   (D)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported within
the city shall be vaccinated at least once every 3 years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
         (a)   Rabies - with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner's name and address, the animal's name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian's signature. Upon demand made by the City Clerk, the Animal
Control Officer or a police officer, the owner shall present for examination
the required certificate(s) of vaccination for the animal(s). In cases where
certificates are not presented, the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have
7 days in which to present the certificate(s) to the City Clerk or officer.
Failure to do so shall be deemed a violation of this section.
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for
sale, any non-domestic animal within the city. Any owner of a non-domestic
animal at the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to
remove the animal from the city after which time the city may impound the
animal as provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept pursuant to the city zoning code.
§ 92.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any unlicensed animal running at large is hereby
declared a public nuisance. Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may
impound any dog or other animal found unlicensed or any animal found running at
large and shall give notice of the impounding to the owner of the dog or other
animal, if known. The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter
the property of the owner of an animal found running at large or the owner of
an unlicensed animal unless the officer has first obtained the permission of
the owner to do so or has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal. In case the owner is unknown, the
officer shall post notice at the city office that if the dog or other animal is
not claimed within the time specified in division (C) of this section, it will
be sold or otherwise disposed of. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
it shall be unlawful to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause injury to any animal,
including dogs and cats running at large.
   (B)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the city pound for a period of not less than 10 days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner's choosing, not outside of the county in which this city is located, and
provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be required, the
owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner's property.
   (C)   Reclaiming. All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with
humane treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least 5
regular business days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under
§
92.11 in which case it shall be kept for 7 regular business days or the times
specified in §
92.11, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for 10 regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (2)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as
established by City Council from time to time, and valid certificate of
vaccination for rabies and distemper shots is required.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (C) of this section, if the animal has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer appointed to
enforce this section may let any person claim the animal by complying with all
provisions in this section, or the officer may sell the animal to the
University of Minnesota, or cause the animal to be destroyed in a proper and
humane manner and shall properly dispose of the remains thereof. Any money
collected under this section shall be payable to the City Clerk.
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.06 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition of kennel. A place where more than 3 dogs or more than 4
cats or a combination of both dogs and cats exceeding 4 in number and over 3
months of age, whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose
kept, shall constitute a KENNEL; except that a fresh litter of pups may be kept
for a period of 3 months before that keeping shall be deemed to be a KENNEL.
   (B)   Kennel as a nuisance. Because the keeping of more than 3 dogs or more
than 4 cats or a combination of both dogs and cats exceeding 4 in number and
over 3 months of age on the same premises is subject to great abuse, causing
discomfort to persons in the area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general
aesthetic depreciation, the keeping of more than 3 dogs or more than 4 cats or
a combination of both dogs and cats exceeding 4 in number and over 3 months of
age on the premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and no person shall
keep or maintain a kennel within the city.
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.07 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least 5 minutes with less than 1 minute
of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person's dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Warrant required. The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall
not enter the property of the owner of an animal described in this section
unless the officer has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or
has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided
for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal.
   (E)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment as provided in §
92.05.
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.08 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal with the permission of the owner of the property, if that
person is also the owner of the animal, provided that the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
92.07(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in §
92.13; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
92.01(E);
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least 1 previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
animal and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed or
have been ignored;
   (E)   The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter the
property of the owner of an animal described in this section unless the officer
has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has obtained a
warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal. If the officer has the permission of
the owner, a property manager, landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person
to enter the property or has obtained a pass key from a property manager,
landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person to have that key shall not be
considered unauthorized entry, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal
need not be obtained; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the animal is not possible.
§ 92.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or the Animal Control Officer or
police officer, an animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety
of any person, or the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the
animal is in the process of attacking any person, the person or officer may
destroy the animal in a proper and humane manner whether or not the animal is
on the property of its owner. Otherwise, the person or officer may apprehend
the animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement under §
92.05. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the animal destroyed
shall be liable to the city for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the animal is found
not to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to
the owner or keeper in accordance with §
92.05(C).
§ 92.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal is not required.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the Animal Control Officer or a police
officer. The officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If
the animal is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the
health and safety of the city, the officer shall cause the animal to be
painlessly killed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or
keeper of the animal killed under this section shall be liable to the city for
the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any
veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.11 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person's animal to
inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to an attack
by a dog under the control of an on-duty law enforcement officer or to an
attack upon an uninvited intruder who has entered the owner’s home with
criminal intent.
   (B)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance with
the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten 1 or more persons on 2 or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  An animal which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE.  Securely confined indoors or in a securely
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to
provide protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does
not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure
that would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not
allow the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of 5 feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
2 inches, support posts shall be 1-1/4-inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than 2 inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than 2 inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      (4)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause 1 owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
      (1)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)
(1).
      (2)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing 1 or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Animal Control
Officer shall cause 1 owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain an
order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal from
a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already in custody or
the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than 3 weeks after demand
for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk’s office shall
be admissible for consideration by the Animal Control Officer without further
foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining to the temperament of the
animal, the City Council shall make an order as it deems proper. The City
Council may order that the Animal Control Officer take the animal into custody
for destruction, if the animal is not currently in custody. If the animal is
ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall immediately make the
animal available to the Animal Control Officer. If the owner does not
immediately make the animal available, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain
an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal
from a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner's name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.12 DANGEROUS ANIMAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of an
animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
      (1)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in §
92.11(C)(3);
      (2)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property as specified in M.S. § 347.51 as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (3)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
      (4)   If the animal is a dog and is outside the proper enclosure, the dog
must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed 6
feet in length) and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of age or
older. The muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the dog from biting any
person or animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its
vision or respiration;
      (5)   If the animal is a dog, it must have an easily identifiable,
standardized tag identifying the dog as dangerous affixed to its collar at all
times as specified in M.S. § 347.51 as it may be amended from time to time, and
shall have a microchip implant as provided by M.S. § 347.151, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (6)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer shall be
registered with the county in which this city is located within 14 days after
the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof to the
Animal Control Officer.
      (7)   If the animal is a dog, the dog must be licensed and up to date on
rabies vaccination. If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date
with rabies vaccination.
   (B)   Seizure. As authorized by M.S. § 347.54, as it may be amended from
time to time, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any dangerous
animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements within 14 days
after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is dangerous.
Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and petition
upon the city and filing it with the district court.
   (C)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under §
92.12(B), may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each
of the requirements under §
92.12(B), is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within 14
days may be disposed of as provided under §
92.11(F), and the owner is liable to the city for costs incurred in confining
and impounding the animal.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
92.11 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by animal control. The
owner may request a hearing as defined in §
92.11(F). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall order the animal destroyed
in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining
the animal. If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for
which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the
provisions of §
92.12(C). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days after
the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the animal may
be disposed of as provided under §
92.11(F) and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred
in confining, impounding and disposing of the animal.
§ 92.13 BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating their pet in a humane manner will be subject to the
penalties provided in this section.
§ 92.14 BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in a manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog or
cat except for planned breeding. Upon capture and failure to reclaim the
animal, every dog or cat shall be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred
to a new owner.
§ 92.15 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council is hereby authorized to appoint an animal control officer(s) to
enforce the provisions of this section. In the officer's duty of enforcing the
provisions of this section, he or she may from time to time, with the consent
of the City Council, designate assistants.
§ 92.16 POUND.
   Every year the Council shall designate an official pound to which animals
found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment, and if
necessary, for destruction.
§ 92.17 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and
convey them to the pound while engaged in that operation. Nor shall any
unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or
attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance
with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
Penalty, see § 92.99
WILD ANIMALS AND BIRDS
§ 92.30 WILD ANIMALS AND BIRDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, take, shoot, trap, kill,
injure, or attempt to injure any wild animals or birds within the City of Amboy
by use of a firearm, bow and arrow, trap, poison, or any other means. This
prohibition, however, shall not prevent property owners or their agents from
eradicating rodents on their property through the use of traps, poisons, or
other lawful means.
(Ord. 109, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
92.99
CHICKENS
§ 92.40 CHICKENS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is recognized that the ability to cultivate one's own food
is a sustainable activity that can also be a rewarding past time. Therefore, it
is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to permit the keeping and
maintenance of chicken hens for eggs and meat sources in a clean and sanitary
manner that is not a nuisance to or detrimental to the public health, safety,
and welfare of the community.
   (B)   Permit required. No person shall own, keep, harbor, or have any live
chickens without first obtaining a permit in writing from the city, and subject
to the following conditions. A copy of the Chicken Permit Application is
attached to Ordinance 92.40 and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth
herein.
      (1)   All permits shall expire on December 31 of each year following
there issuance unless revoked. A person who wishes to continue keeping chickens
shall obtain a new permit on or before January 1.
      (2)   A permit is subject to all terms and conditions of this section and
any additional conditions deemed necessary by the city to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
      (3)   The city may revoke a permit for failure to comply with the
provisions of this section or any of the permit's conditions. Prior to revoking
a permit, the city shall provide the owner with a notice of the revocation and
an opportunity to appeal the revocation to the City Council.
      (4)   The city may inspect the premises for which a permit has been
granted in order to ensure compliance with this division (B). If the city is
not able to obtain the occupant's consent to enter the property; it may seek an
administrative search warrant.
      (5)   No person shall allow any fowl under his or her ownership to
disturb the peace and quiet of the city or to otherwise become a public or
private nuisance so as to annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, comfort
or repose of the public.
      (6)   Persons that intend to no longer keep fowl on their premises shall
notify the City Clerk. If there is a pen, it must be removed upon expiration of
the permit or within 30 days of ceasing to use the pen for keeping of fowl,
whichever is earlier.
      (7)   The city shall set fees for such permits by resolution.
   (C)   Additional regulations.
      (1)   The keeping of any poultry besides chickens is prohibited.
      (2)   No more than 4 chickens shall be housed or kept on any one
residential lot in any area of the city.
      (3)   Chickens shall only be allowed on single-family home lots.
      (4)   Outdoor slaughtering of chickens in city limits is prohibited.
      (5)   Chicken fighting shall not be allowed within city limits.
      (6)   Leg banding of all chickens is required. The bands must identify
the owner's name, address, and telephone number.
      (7)   Chickens will not be housed in a residential house or an attached
garage.
      (8)   A separate coop is required to house the chickens. A building
permit application must be approved by the Planning Commission and City Council
before the coop and fence area is constructed.
      (9)   The coop must be maintained to meet the following minimum
standards:
         (a)   Located in the side or rear yard;
         (b)   Meet the accessory structure setback requirements;
         (c)   Construction shall be adequate to prevent access by rodents;
         (d)   A run or exercise yard is required to be provided and must be
enclosed by a fence;
         (e)   The coop must be located in the side or backyard and set back as
least 25 feet from any structure on any adjacent lot and at least 10 feet from
the property line.
      (10)   All premises on which chickens are kept or maintained shall be
kept clean from filth, garbage, and any substances which attract rodents. The
coop and its surroundings must be cleaned frequently enough to control order.
Manure shall not be allowed to accumulate in a way that causes an unsanitary
condition or causes odors detectible on another property.
      (11)   All food shall be stored in an enclosed, rodent proof container.
      (12)   Dead chickens shall be disposed of according to the Minnesota
Board of Animal Health rules, which require chicken carcasses to be disposed of
as soon as possible after death, usually within 48 to 72 hours. Legal forms of
chicken carcass disposal include offsite burial, offsite incineration or
rendering, or offsite composting.
      (13)   No permit will be approved if property owner has any city code
violations or outstanding invoices due to the city.
(Ord. 92.40, passed 4-13-2020)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable under this section.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided, violation of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99.
   (C)   Petty misdemeanor. Violations of §§
92.02,
92.07,
92.13 and
92.14 are petty misdemeanors punishable as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Generally
   
93.03   Master sidewalk plan
   
93.04   Removal of a sidewalk
   
93.05   Inspection
   
93.06   Obstructions prohibited
   
93.07   Fences or barricades
   
93.08   Snow, ice, debris, and rubbish
   
93.09   Pedestrians to exercise caution
   
93.10   Liability to the city
   
93.11   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.12   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.13   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
93.14   Effective date
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   The City of Amboy finds that a continuing program for the repair and
maintenance of sidewalks is necessary and in the best interest of the city. The
City Council hereby establishes a budget reserve for this program and may
appropriate funds for the purpose.
(Ord. 105, passed 9-8-1993)
§ 93.02 GENERALLY.
   The city shall install, repair, or replace sidewalks shown on the master
sidewalk plan, described below under §
93.03, at the city’s expense and according to the condition of the sidewalks
and the funds available. Sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired according
to plans and specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the
office of the City Administrative Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 105, passed 9-8-1993)
§ 93.03 MASTER SIDEWALK PLAN.
   (A)   The City Council hereby adopts a master sidewalk plan to include
public sidewalks the Council has determined are necessary to provide proper,
safe, and adequate pedestrian access to the following locations within the City
of Amboy.
   (B)   This determination has been made by using criteria such as the
locations of public facilities and traffic counts on streets and includes
public sidewalks in the following areas:
      (1)   Sidewalks within the central business district;
      (2)   Sidewalks serving main roads within the city; and
      (3)   Sidewalks serving main streets to and between churches and schools.
   (C)   These sidewalks are depicted in red on the city’s master sidewalk map
which is attached to Ordinance 105. Except as indicated on the master map,
sidewalks shall not be required in residential areas.
   (D)   Existing sidewalks not on the map will be allowed to be removed and
may be removed by the city as time and funds permit or by following the
procedures outlined in §
93.04.
   (E)   As specific needs arise, streets are reconstructed or new private
projects are constructed, the City Council will determine whether or not
additional sidewalks need to be constructed. This determination will be based
on the following considerations: safety of pedestrians, the amount of vehicular
traffic in the area of these projects and federal, state, and local mandates.
(Ord. 105, passed 9-8-1993)
   (F)   The city maintains the sidewalks that are identified on the master
sidewalk plan. The other sidewalks are the owner’s responsibility.
Editor’s note:
   The master sidewalk plan and all amendments thereto are on file in the
office of the Clerk/Administrator.
§ 93.04 REMOVAL OF A SIDEWALK.
   (A)   Removal of a sidewalk not designated on the master sidewalk plan,
without replacement, shall occur only by the following.
      (1)   The owner of the abutting property shall petition the City Council
and the City Council shall determine by resolution that it is in the interest
of the public to remove the sidewalk without replacing it. Removal of the
sidewalk in this case shall be at the property owners’ expense.
      (2)   The City Council on its own motion, may also seek the removal of
sidewalk without replacement by resolution and the motion must pass by a 4/
5 vote. The city pays for removal of the sidewalk in this case.
   (B)   No person or persons, firm or corporation shall remove a public
sidewalk, or any section thereof, within the corporate limits of the
municipality without the written consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 105, passed 9-8-1993)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Between April 1 and June 1 of each year, an inspection will be made of
all existing public sidewalks. This will include the downtown business district
as well as the residential areas. This inspection will be completed by the
Sidewalk Committee which is established by action of the City Council at the
first Council meeting of each year. The purpose of the inspection will be to
determine the need to repair or replace any deteriorated sidewalks shown on the
master sidewalk plan as well as to determine which sections, if any, of
existing sidewalk not shown on the master plan would be scheduled for removal
that year.
   (B)   In inspecting the city public sidewalks, the Sidewalk Committee will
follow sidewalk standards set by Council resolution. The list of sidewalks
needing replacement or repair shall be presented to the City Council for
approval and procedures for repair or replacement will be commenced as ordered
by the City Council. A list of public sidewalks which the Sidewalk Committee
feels should be removed will also be presented to the City Council for approval
and procedures for removal will be commenced as ordered by the City Council.
   (C)   Once the inspections and determinations are complete, the repair and
replacement work, as well as removal work, will be scheduled for completion
during the next 3 to 4 summer months as time permits. All lips will be painted
to serve as a warning until repair or replacement occurs. In addition, sidewalk
that is scheduled for replacement or removal will be marked with a large “X”
across the sidewalk panels that will be replaced or removed.
   (D)   In addition to the annual spring inspections, the city will
investigate any complaints of bad or dangerous sidewalk, and accidents that are
reported to the City Administrative Clerk/Treasurer during normal business
hours.
(Ord. 105, passed 9-8-1993)
§ 93.06 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person or persons, firm, or corporation shall obstruct a sidewalk
so as to prevent the free use thereof by the public; provided, however, that
permission may be obtained from the City Administrative Clerk/Treasurer to
temporarily obstruct a sidewalk for purposes of constructing, loading or
unloading, or other business purposes.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer, with the approval of the City Council, is
authorized to grant permission, in writing, to place and keep upon any street,
alley, or sidewalk in the city, building material, for a period not exceeding
90 days, when the materials are to be used in the construction of a new
building, or in the repair of an old building; but the permission shall not
authorize the obstruction of more than 5 feet in width of the sidewalk or more
than 15 feet in width of the street adjacent to the lot in which the building
material is to be used. No material shall be placed upon the sidewalk which
will break or injure the same; also, the person to whom the permission is
granted shall erect and maintain during the period of the permit, proper and
sufficient safeguards and warning lights, and the material shall in no case be
placed so as to obstruct the free flow of water in the street gutters. The
permission may be revoked by the City Administrative Clerk/Treasurer at any
time.
   (C)   Every person to whom permission is granted herein, before the
expiration of the time for which the permission was granted, shall cause all
building material and rubbish arising therefrom to be removed from the place
occupied and shall also immediately repair and put in as good condition as
before any sidewalk or street that may have been injured by the person.
(Ord. 105, passed 9-8-1993)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.07 FENCES OR BARRICADES.
   No person who shall have charge of the construction of any excavation or
obstruction adjacent to or under any sidewalk or street, shall fail during the
progress of the work, to cause the excavation to be securely guarded by a fence
or barricade. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, throw down, run
over or interfere with any barricade; or to walk upon, drive or ride over or
across any street or sidewalk construction which has not been opened for
travel.
(Ord. 105, passed 9-8-1993)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.08 SNOW, ICE, DEBRIS, AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   Every owner or occupant of buildings or grounds adjacent to sidewalks
on the master sidewalk map is required to remove all snow and ice within 24
hours after the snow or ice has ceased to fall. Debris and rubbish must also be
removed from sidewalks on the master sidewalk map within 24 hours after being
deposited thereon. Any snow, ice, rubbish, or debris that is not cleared from
sidewalks in accordance with this section may be cleared by the city at the
expense of the owner or occupant of the adjacent property. The employee in
charge of the clearance work shall keep a record of the costs of the work done
adjacent to each parcel of land.
   (B)   The costs of the sidewalk clearance may be recovered by the city at
its discretion, either by:
      (1)   Billing the owner or occupant of the adjacent property for the cost
of the clearance work and taking the steps as are necessary to collect the bill
such as bringing suit in a court of competent jurisdiction to recover the cost
of the clearing and the expense of the suit; or
      (2)   By extending the costs of the work as a special assessment against
the adjacent property which assessment shall be certified to the county for
collection.
(Ord. 105, passed 9-8-1993; Am. Ord. passed 2-1-1999)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.09 PEDESTRIANS TO EXERCISE CAUTION.
   It is not the intent of the city to in any way guarantee or warrant that
sidewalks will be free from all defects. Pedestrians must exercise caution and
care in the use of public walks because defects and conditions will be present
and are impossible to prevent given the climatic conditions of the city and its
effects on sidewalks, curbs, and streets.
(Ord. 105, passed 9-8-1993)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.10 LIABILITY TO THE CITY.
   If any judgment shall be recovered in any action against the city for any
injury or damage caused by any obstruction, excavation, opening, or defect in
any sidewalk cause or occasioned by the act or omission of any person, the city
shall have the right to recover the amount of any such judgment from the person
so responsible for the obstruction, opening, excavation, or defect, and the
person is hereby declared to be liable to the city in the same amount of the
damages.
(Ord. 105, passed 9-8-1993)
§ 93.11 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.12 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.13 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.14 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in effect after its passing and publication in
accordance with law.
(Ord. 105, passed 9-8-1993)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of any section of this subchapter other than violations of §
93.08 shall constitute misdemeanors and shall be subject to the fines and
penalties set by the State of Minnesota with respect to the offenses.
(Ord. 105, passed 9-8-1993)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Assessable current services
   
94.02   Tree diseases
Nuisances
   
94.15   Public nuisance
   
94.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
94.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
94.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
94.19   Nuisance parking and storage
   
94.20   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
94.21   Building maintenance and appearance
   
94.22   Duties of city officers
   
94.23   Abatement
   
94.24   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
94.35   Short title
   
94.36   Jurisdiction
   
94.37   Definitions; exclusions
   
94.38   Owners responsible for trimming, removal, and the like
   
94.39   Filing complaint
   
94.40   Notice of violations
   
94.41   Appeals
   
94.42   Abatement by city
   
94.43   Liability
Cross-reference:
   Burning of Solid Fuels, see §§
90.01 et seq.
   Drug Labs and Chemical Dumps, see
Chapter 91
   Public Works, see Title V
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. Shall mean one or more of the following: snow, ice, or
rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots
adjacent to sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of
public health or safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous
building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 et seq., as they may be amended from time
to time; installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling,
street flushing, light street oiling, or other dust treatment of streets;
repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of
unsound and insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property;
and the operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt, and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt, or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Clerk/Treasurer or other person
designated by the City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all
snow, ice, dirt, and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any
matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The
City Clerk/Treasurer or other designated person shall keep a record showing the
cost of removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under this
code, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a record of the total cost of the
installation or repair against the property.
   (E)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the office of the
City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee shall make
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If it
is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the City Council shall cause a notice to be served, by mail
or by personal service, upon the record owner of the property, ordering the
owner to have the sidewalk or alley repaired and made safe within 30 days and
stating that if the owner fails to do so, the city will do so and that the
expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and if unpaid it will be made a
special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 30
days after receipt of the notice, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall report the
facts to the City Council and the City Council shall by resolution order the
work done by contract in accordance with law. No person shall enter private
property to repair a sidewalk, except with the permission of the owner or after
obtaining an administrative warrant. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a
record of the total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of
property.
   (F)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Clerk/Treasurer, or other designated official, shall
prepare a bill and mail it to the owner and thereupon the amount shall be
immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (G)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object, or contrivance upon any street, road, highway, or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving, or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object, or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object, or contrivance, but is operating, driving, or
moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner
and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any such damage. Any
person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages
any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall
be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (H)   Assessment. On or before October 31 of each year, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each type of current service
and charges under this section against each separate lot or parcel to which
they are attributable under this section. The City Council may then spread the
charges against property benefitted as a special assessment under the authority
of M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.02 TREE DISEASES.
   (A)   Trees constituting nuisance declared. The following are public
nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood, or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood, or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide; and
      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance as defined in division (A) of this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The nuisance may be
abated as provided in §§
94.22 and
94.23.
   (C)   Record of costs. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a record of the
costs of abatement done under this section for all work done for which
assessments are to be made, stating and certifying the description of the land,
lots, parcels involved, and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   Unpaid charges. On or before October 31 of each year, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each
separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The
City Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof against the
property involved as a special assessment as authorized by M.S. § 429.101, as
it may be amended from time to time, and other pertinent statutes for
certification to the County Auditor and collection the following year along
with the current taxes.
Penalty, see § 10.99
NUISANCES
§ 94.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally
does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort, or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or §§
94.16,
94.17, or
94.18, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as it may
be amended from time to time, which are hereby incorporated by reference into
this code;
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile, or any recreational
device except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine, or
other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any person
nearby. Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section;
   (G)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of people
giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet, or repose of
another person. When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating
such a noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than
the owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to
disperse immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a
police officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of the premises who has
knowledge of the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the
disturbance is stopped;
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M)   Any barbed wire fence less than 6 feet above the ground and within 3
feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health, or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole, or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (U)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
   (V)   (1)   Noises prohibited.
         (a)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made
any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
this section.
         (b)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
         (c)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall create loud or
excessive noise in loading, unloading, or unpacking any vehicle.
         (d)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems, and the like. No person
shall use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner as
to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine, or other device
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it is
located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if
the source is located outside a structure or building, shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
         (e)   Schools, churches, hospitals, and the like. No person shall
create any excessive noise on a street, alley, or public grounds adjacent to
any school, institution of learning, church, or hospital when the noise
unreasonably interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs or
unduly annoys its occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate
the presence of the institution.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday or when the city finds that, in cases of
emergency, that such repair work will not affect the health and safety of the
persons n the vicinity.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each such statement and take
its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
      (4)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to sound produced by the
following:
         (a)   Church bells, chimes or carillons.
         (b)   School bells.
         (c)   Anti-theft devices.
         (d)   Machines or devices for the production of sound on or in
authorized emergency vehicles.
         (e)   With the exception of the four machines or devices listed above
or below, this section shall apply to all machines and devices for the
production or reproduction of sound, whether on public or private property.
         (f)   The blowing of any whistle as a warning of fire or danger or the
City’s time clock whistle.
(Ord. 122, passed 6-4-2007)
   (W)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and 1 footcandle when abutting
any commercial or industrial parcel; and
   (X)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel and 1 footcandle when abutting
any commercial or industrial parcel.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.19 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies, or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevents the full use of residential streets for residential
parking;
      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (5)   Decreases adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (6)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-permanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front-yard area
of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front property
line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit, or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (1)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking or driveway area.
         (2)   Vehicles, watercraft, and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.20 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store, or abandon any motor
vehicle which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for
repair of parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other
vehicles, kept for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any kind, or which is
not properly licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. §
168B.011, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building
and/or kept out of view from any street, road, or alley, and which does not
foster complaint from a resident of the city.
   (C)   Any motor vehicles described in this section constitute a hazard to
the health and welfare of the residents of the community in that the vehicles
can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and breeding place for vermin
and present physical danger to the safety and well-being of children and
citizens; and vehicles containing fluids which, if released into the
environment, can and do cause significant health risks to the community.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.21 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences, and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they:
      (1)   Are unsightly;
      (2)   Decrease adjoining landowners and occupants’ enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (3)   Adversely affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence, or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped, or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any 1 wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters, and similar
projections on any 1 side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay, or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents, and other similar projections must
be structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.22 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of §§
94.22 and
94.23, the Public Safety Department, or Sheriff or person designated by the
City Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Public Safety Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall
have the power to inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions
to prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in
emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and safety, no police
officer or designated person shall enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the owner,
resident, or other person in control of the property, unless the officer or
person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
§ 94.23 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place,
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer or designated person on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by mail. If the premises is not occupied, the
owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or occupant refuses to
accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be served by posting it
on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by mail. If the premises is
not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council hearing, notice of City
Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the
city, the officer or person designated shall notify in writing the owner of
record or occupant of the premises of the fact and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be
abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the officer or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an administrative search and
seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the officer or designated person shall determine that a
public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that
delay in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health,
safety, or welfare. The officer or designated person shall notify in writing
the occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance and of the
city’s intention to seek summary enforcement and the time and place of the City
Council meeting to consider the question of summary enforcement. The City
Council shall determine whether or not the condition identified in the notice
to the owner or occupant is a nuisance, whether public health, safety or
welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement required to
complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this section, and may order
that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is not
immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.24 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk/Treasurer or other official
shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the
amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall, on or before October 31 next following abatement of the
nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as
other charges for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it
may be amended from time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which
the charges are attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges
against the property under that statute and other pertinent statutes for
certification to the County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the
following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the City
Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see § 10.99
WEEDS
§ 94.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the Weed Ordinance.
§ 94.36 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended, or repealed.
§ 94.37 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license, or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes but is not limited to the
following:
         (1)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
         (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
         (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (4)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers,
or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 6 inches;
         (5)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants; and/or
         (6)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated
plants, or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
§ 94.38 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL, AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting, or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 6 inches in height.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated, and
filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer. If the city makes the complaint, an
employee, officer, or Council Member of the city shall file the complaint in
all respects as set out above.
§ 94.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Council shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding the
condition. The city, upon concluding that there is a probable belief that this
subchapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in the form of
a “Destruction Order” to the property owner or the person occupying the
property as that information is contained within the records of the City Clerk/
Treasurer or any other city agency. The notice shall be served in writing by
mail. The notice shall provide that within seven regular business days after
the receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be removed by the
property owner or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   Mailing to the City Clerk/Treasurer or others is deemed filed on
the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 94.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is
the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
§ 94.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
“Destruction Order” within 7 regular business days and has not filed a notice
within 48 hours to the City Clerk/Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the City
Council may employ the services of city employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
§ 94.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting, or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney’s
fees, and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies, and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk/Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
         
111.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
         
112.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
         
113.   REGULATING LAWFUL GAMBLING
         
114.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
110.01   Findings and intent
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   General provisions
   
110.04   Licensing
   
110.05   Fees
   
110.06   Licensing procedure
   
110.07   Persons ineligible for an adult use license
   
110.08   Places ineligible for an adult use license
   
110.09   License conditions
   
110.10   Adult use-principal
   
110.11   Adult use-accessory
   
110.12   Adult cabaret regulations
   
110.13   Nonconforming adult use-principal or accessory
   
110.14   Enforcement
   
110.15   Effective date
§ 110.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   Minnesota Statute § 412.221, Subd. 32, as it may be amended from time
to time, states: “The council shall have power to provide for the government
and good order of the city, the suppression of vice and immorality, the
prevention of crime, the protection of public and private property, the benefit
of residence, trade, and commerce, and the promotion of health, safety, order,
convenience, and the general welfare by the ordinances not inconsistent with
the constitution and laws of the United States or of this state as it shall
deem expedient;” and
   (B)   The State Attorney General has prepared a report entitled Report of
the Attorney General’s Working Group on Regulation of Sexually Oriented
Businesses, dated 6-6-1989. The Report considered evidence from studies
conducted in Minneapolis and St. Paul and in other cities throughout the
country relating to sexually oriented businesses. The Attorney General’s
Report, based upon the referenced studies and the testimony presented to it,
has concluded “that sexually oriented businesses are associated with high crime
rates and depression of property values.” In addition, the Attorney General’s
Working Group “...heard testimony that the character of the neighborhood can
dramatically change when there is a concentration of sexually oriented
businesses adjacent to residential property;” and
   (C)   In City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc, 475 US 41 (1986), the
United States Supreme Court found that a city may rely on the experiences of
other cities to determine whether certain businesses have adverse secondary
effects; and
   (D)   The City of Amboy has characteristics, including residential and
public institutional uses, that are similar to the cities cited in the Report
of the Attorney General’s Working Group and other studies.
   (E)   The City Council finds that, based upon the above-mentioned studies,
adult entertainment uses should be regulated in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare; to protect property values; to eliminate or reduce
blight; to prevent deterioration of neighborhoods; to prevent the exodus of
residents and businesses from city neighborhoods and to prevent the increase of
crime and juvenile delinquency.
   (F)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including adult-oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent
nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to adult-
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by
distributors and exhibitors of adult-oriented entertainment to their intended
market.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT USE-BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which provides
the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent or non-
transparent, to or on the body of a patron when the body is wholly or partially
nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE-BOOKSTORE. A building or portion or a building used for the
barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audio tape, videotape, DVD’s or motion picture film if the building or
portion of a building is not open to the general public generally but only to 1
or more classes of the public excluding any minor by reason of age or if a
substantial or significant portion of the items are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE-CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for providing
dancing or other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a building
excludes minors by virtue of age or if the dancing or other live entertainment
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT USE-COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion between an employee of the
establishment and a customer if the service is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE-CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which excludes
minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging or listening
to conversation, talk or discussion, if the service is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE-HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes minors by
reason of age, or if the club is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE-HOTEL OR MOTEL. Adult hotel or motel means a hotel or motel from
which minors are specifically excluded from patronage and wherein material is
presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE-MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club which
restricts minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of massage,
if the service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE-MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building
with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material if the
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT USE-MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customers and
who engage in specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas
while being observed, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed,
or otherwise depicted by the customers.
   ADULT USE-MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted
or invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture machines,
projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to 5
or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building with a
capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting materials if the building or
portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by virtue of age
or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
   ADULT USE-NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has a principal activity the
sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which are designated
for sexual stimulation.
   ADULT USE-SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or which
provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing,
relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or
reducing agent, if the service provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE-STEAM BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a building used
for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a
cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the building or portion of a building
restricts minors by reason of age or if the service provided by the steam room/
bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USES. Include adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
motion picture rental, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage
parlors, adult steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities, adult companionship
establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult health/sport clubs, adult
cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult
modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body painting studios, and other
premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses or places open to some or all
members of the public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation,
display, depiction, or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas which are capable of being seen by members of the public.
      (1)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus, or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola.
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      (2)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
         (a)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, and
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothes genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexual-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty.
         (b)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal, or tumescence.
         (c)   Use of a human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation.
         (d)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast(s).
         (e)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving flagellation, torture, fettering, binding, or other
physical restraint of any such persons.
         (f)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being.
         (g)   Human erection, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
   ADULT USES-ACCESSORY. A use, business or establishment having 10% or less of
its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or more than 20% or less of its
gross receipts derived from movie rentals or magazine sales.
   ADULT USES-PRINCIPAL. A use, business or establishment having more than 10%
of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or more than 20% of its gross
receipts derived from, any adult use.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
§ 110.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in this chapter, no structure shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or altered, and no structure or
land shall be used, for any purpose nor in any manner which is not in
conformity with this chapter. Adult uses shall be prohibited from locating in
any building which is also utilized for residential purposes.
   (B)   No adult entertainment business shall engage in any activity or permit
any other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the
establishment which is prohibited by any ordinance of the City of Amboy, the
laws of the State of Minnesota, or the United States of America. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed as authorizing or permitting conduct which is
prohibited or regulated by other statutes or ordinances, including, but not
limited to, statutes or ordinances prohibiting the exhibition, sale, or
distribution of obscene material generally, or the exhibition, sale, or
distribution of specified materials to minors.
   (C)   No liquor license shall be issued to any adult use related premises,
enterprise, establishment, business, or place open to some or all members of
the public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction, description of, or participation in specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   (D)   No adult use related premises, establishment, business, or place shall
allow or permit the sale of 3.2% malt liquor, wine, or any alcoholic beverages
for consumption on the premises or the sale or service of set ups to mix
alcoholic drinks. No alcoholic beverages shall be consumed on the premises of
the enterprise, establishment, business, or place.
   (E)   An adult use which does not qualify as an accessory use pursuant to §
110.02 shall be classified as an adult use-principal.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.04 LICENSING.
   (A)   Adult uses-principal shall not be owned or operated by any person
without first having secured an adult use license from the City of Amboy.
   (B)   The application for an adult use license shall be submitted on a form
provided by the city and shall include:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual: the name, residence, phone
number, and birth date of the applicant;
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership: the name, residence, phone
number, and birth date of each general and limited partner shall be provided;
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation: the names, residences, phone
numbers, and birth dates of all persons holding more than 5% of the issued
outstanding stock of the corporation;
      (4)   The name, address, phone number, and birth date of the operator and
manager of the operation, if different from the owner(s);
      (5)   The address and legal description of the premises where the adult
establishment is to be located;
      (6)   A statement detailing any gross misdemeanor or felony convictions
relating to sex offenses, obscenity, or the operation of an adult establishment
of adult business by the applicant, operator, or manager, and whether or not
the applicant has ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar type
business in any other community(s). In the case of a corporation, a statement
detailing any felony convictions by the owners of more than 5% of the issued
and outstanding stock of the corporation, and whether or not those property
owners have ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar type of
business in other community(s);
      (7)   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
      (8)   The hours of operation;
      (9)   Provisions to be utilized to restrict access by minors; and
      (10)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations
and activities.
   (C)   The license shall expire on December 31 of the year it is issued.
   (D)   The granting of any permit or license pursuant to requirements of this
chapter, or other applicable City of Amboy ordinances, shall not relieve
applicants of their responsibility to obtain any required state or federal
permits.
   (E)   Each application for an adult use license shall be submitted to the
City Administrative Clerk/Treasurer and shall be accompanied by payment in full
of the required fee for the adult use license. Each license shall be issued for
a period of 1 calendar year. All licenses shall expire on the last day of
December of each year. Any portion of a year less than 12 months shall be
counted as a full year for the purpose of calculation of fees.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
§ 110.05 FEES.
   The annual fee for an adult use license shall be as detailed in the fee
schedule established by the Amboy City Council. The fee may be adjusted from
time to time by Council action. If any application for a license is rejected,
the license fee shall not be refunded. No part of the fee paid for any license
issued under this chapter shall be refunded.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
§ 110.06 LICENSING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Amboy Public Safety Department shall investigate all facts set out
in the application. Each owner of the establishment, be it individual, partner,
limited partner, shall be subjected to a criminal history background check by
the Police Chief or his or her designee. Costs of the criminal history
investigations shall be borne by the applicant according to the fee schedule
established by the city. The application for the adult use license shall not be
considered complete until all required information has been furnished, the
investigation has been completed by the Public Safety Department and a report
provided to the City Council.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing and report its
findings to the City Council within 30 days after the City Administrator has
received a complete application. At the hearing, opportunity shall be given to
any person to be heard relating to the granting of the license. The City
Council shall grant or deny the adult use license within 30 days of the
conclusion of the hearing.
   (C)   The adult use license shall be issued only to the applicant and shall
not be transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only for
the premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to
another premises or person without the written permission of the city. If the
licensee is a partnership or corporation, a change in the identity of any of
the principals of the partnership or corporation shall be deemed to be a
transfer of the license.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
§ 110.07 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR AN ADULT USE LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person under 21 years of age;
   (B)   Anyone who is overdue in payments to a city, county, state, or federal
government of taxes, fees, fines or penalties, or charges for municipal
services and utilities assessed against them or imposed upon them;
   (C)   Anyone who has been convicted of a gross misdemeanor or felony, or of
violating any law of this state or local ordinance relating to sex offenses,
obscenity offenses, or adult establishments;
   (D)   Anyone who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the
license is issued;
   (E)   To any applicant who is acting as an agent for an individual who would
be disqualified pursuant to the above criteria; and
   (F)   Anyone who has not paid the required investigation/licensing fees
required by this chapter.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
§ 110.08 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR AN ADULT USE LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be granted for adult establishments on any premises
where a licensee has been convicted of a violation of this chapter, or where
any license hereunder has been revoked for cause, until 1 year has elapsed
after the conviction or revocation.
   (B)   No license shall be granted for any adult establishment which is not
in compliance with the city’s land use regulations, or any fire, health, and
safety codes and any and all provisions of federal and state law.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
§ 110.09 LICENSE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a conspicuous
place at all times. No minor shall be permitted on the premises.
   (B)   An applicant or licensee shall permit health officials,
representatives of the Public Safety Department, Fire Department, and building
inspectors, to inspect the premises of an adult use business for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business. A person who operates an adult use business or his or her agent or
employee commits an offense if she or he or she refuses to permit a lawful
inspection of the premises by the above-named officials at any time it is
occupied or open for business. Refusal to permit inspections may result in the
suspension of the license.
   (C)   No adult goods or materials shall be offered, sold, transferred,
conveyed, given, displayed, or bartered to any minor.
   (D)   In granting a license for an adult establishment, the City Council may
impose additional conditions to protect the best interest of the surrounding
area or the city as a whole.
   (E)   The licensee must keep itemized written records of all transactions
involving the sale or rental of all items or merchandise for at least 1 year
after the transaction. At a minimum, these records must describe the date of
the transaction, a description of the transaction, the purchase or rental
price, and a detailed description of the item or merchandise that is being
purchased or rented. These written records must be provided to the city upon
request.
   (F)   The licensee must cover or otherwise arrange all windows, doors, and
apertures to prevent any person outside the licensed premises from viewing any
items or merchandise inside the premises depicting specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.10 ADULT USE-PRINCIPAL.
   (A)   Adult use businesses-principal shall be a permitted conditional use in
the I-1 Industrial District, as outlined in
Chapter 150, and shall be subject to the following locational criteria:
      (1)   Adult use businesses-principal shall be located at least 350 radial
feet, as measured in a straight line from the closest point of the main
entrance of the building within which the adult use is located to the property
line of:
         (a)   A zoning district in which residential uses are specifically
listed as a permitted or conditional use;
         (b)   A licensed day-care center;
         (c)   A public or private educational facility classified as an
elementary, junior high, or senior high;
         (d)   A public library;
         (e)   A public park;
         (f)   Another adult use-principal; and/or
         (g)   Any church or church-related organization.
      (2)   An on-sale liquor establishment or one in which the sale of wine or
3.2% malt liquor or the sale or service of set-ups to mix alcoholic drinks is
permitted. No alcoholic beverages shall be consumed on the premises of the
enterprise, establishment, business, or place.
      (3)   No adult use-principal shall be located in the same building or
upon the same property as another adult use-principal or in any building which
is also utilized for residential purposes.
      (4)   Adult use businesses-principal shall adhere to the following
signing regulations in addition to the sign regulations of §
150.13:
         (a)   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the name of the business; and
         (b)   Signs shall comply with the requirements of size and number for
the district in which they are located.
      (5)   An adult use business-principal shall be limited to 12:00 p.m. to
12:00 a.m. for its hours of operation. A differing time schedule may be
approved by the City Council, if it can be satisfactorily demonstrated by the
operator to the City Council that all the following will apply:
         (a)   Not adversely impact or affect uses or activities within 350
feet;
         (b)   Will not result in increased policing and related service calls;
         (c)   Is critical to the operation of the business.
      (6)   All entrances to the business, with the exception of emergency fire
exits which are not useable by patrons to enter the business, shall be visible
from a public right-of-way.
      (7)   The layout of the display areas shall be designed so that the
management of the establishment and any law enforcement personnel inside the
store can observe all patrons while they have access to any merchandise offered
for sale or viewing including but not limited to books, magazines, photographs,
video tapes, DVD’s, or any other material.
      (8)   Illumination of the premises exterior shall be adequate to observe
the location and activities of all persons on the exterior premises.
   (B)   Additional site criteria, such as parking and screening criteria,
shall be as set forth in
Chapter 150.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.11 ADULT USE-ACCESSORY.
   (A)   Adult use-accessory, shall be permitted in all commercial districts
provided the accessory use conforms with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No alcoholic beverages, including 3.2% malt liquor, wine, or
intoxicating liquor, shall be consumed on the premises of any adult use-
accessory. Adult use-accessory shall:
      (1)   Comprise no more than 10% of the floor area of the establishment in
which it is located;
      (2)   Comprise no more than 20% of the gross receipts of the entire
business operation; and
      (3)   Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise.
   (C)   Adult use-accessory shall be restricted from and prohibit access to
minors by the physical separation of such items from areas of general public
access.
   (D)   Display areas shall be restricted from general view and shall be
located within a separate room, the access of which is in clear view and under
the control of the persons responsible for the operation.
   (E)   Publications classified or qualifying as adult uses shall not be
physically accessible to minors and shall be covered with wrappers or other
means to prevent display of any material other than publication title.
   (F)   Adult uses-accessory not specifically cited shall comply with the
intent of this section subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   Adult use-accessory shall be prohibited from both internal and
external advertising and signing of adult materials and products.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.12 ADULT CABARET REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The following restrictions apply to adult cabarets.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity shall
advertise or cause to be advertised, an adult cabaret without a valid adult use
license.
      (2)   An adult use license holder shall maintain and retain for a period
of 2 years the names, address, and ages of all persons engaged, hired, or
employed as dancers or performers by the licensee.
      (3)   An adult cabaret shall be prohibited in establishments where
alcoholic beverages or the sale or service of set-ups to mix alcoholic drinks
are served.
      (4)   No owner, operator, or manager of an adult cabaret shall permit or
allow any dancers or other live entertainer to perform nude unless as provided
in divisions (B)(7) and (B)(8) below.
      (5)   No patron or any person other than a dancer or liver entertainer,
as provided in divisions (B)(7) and (B)(8) below, shall be nude in an adult
cabaret.
      (6)   No dancer, live entertainer, or performer shall be under 18 years
of age.
      (7)   All dancing shall occur on a platform intended for that purpose
which is raised at least 2 feet above the level of the floor.
      (8)   No dancer or performer shall perform or dance closer than 10 feet
from any patron unless the dancer or performer is enclosed behind a floor to
ceiling glass partition.
      (9)   No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron and no patron shall
fondle or caress any dancer or performer.
      (10)   No person under 18 years of age shall be admitted to an adult
cabaret.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.13 NONCONFORMING ADULT USE-PRINCIPAL OR ACCESSORY.
   (A)   Adult uses which are in existence prior to 5-6-2002 shall be
classified as legal nonconforming uses and may continue in accordance with
provisions of this chapter. If an adult use becomes nonconforming because of
rezoning, the adult use shall be considered legal nonconforming and may
continue in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. In no instance
shall a legal nonconforming adult use be allowed to structurally expand the use
on the lot on which it is located when the use became legally nonconforming, or
expand the adult use to include another lot on which the adult use was not
located when it became legally nonconforming.
   (B)   If the building in which a legal nonconforming adult use is located is
destroyed by any means to an extend of greater than 50% of its market value, or
if the building in which the legally nonconforming adult use is vacant for more
than 12 months, an adult use shall not be re-established unless it is in
conformance with this section.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more than the maximum
penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter shall be a basis for the suspension or
revocation of the permit for the property or building in or on which the adult
use is located. In the event the City Council proposes to revoke or suspend a
permit, the property owner shall be notified in writing of the basis for the
proposed suspension or revocation. The City Council shall hold a hearing for
the purpose of determining whether to revoke or suspend the permit, which
hearing shall be within 30 days of the date of the notice.
   (C)   The City Council shall determine whether to revoke or suspend the
permit within 30 days after the close of the hearing or within 60 days of the
dates of the notice, whichever is sooner, and shall notify the property owner
of its decision within that period.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter will be in effect upon its passage and the publication of its
summary according to law.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-6-2002)
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
111.05   Consumption in public places
Licensing
   
111.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
111.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
111.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
111.23   License fees; pro rata
   
111.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
111.25   Application for license
   
111.26   Description of premises
   
111.27   Applications for renewal
   
111.28   Transfer of license
   
111.29   Investigation
   
111.30   Hearing and issuance
   
111.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
111.32   Conditions of license
   
111.33   Hours and days of sale
   
111.34   Minors on premises
   
111.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
111.36   Suspension and revocation
Municipal Liquor Stores
   
111.50   Application of this subchapter
   
111.51   Existing municipal stores continued
   
111.52   Location
   
111.53   Operation
   
111.54   Proof of financial responsibility
   
111.55   Issuance of other licenses
 
   
111.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this Chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Chapter 340A are hereby
adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time
this Chapter is adopted.
§ 111.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
INTOXICATING or 3.2% MALT, includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended  from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a SMALL ESTABLISHMENT, MEDIUM ESTABLISHMENT or LARGE
ESTABLISHMENT as defined in M.S. § 157.16, Subd. 3d, as it may be amended from
time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that receives heat
treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is heated and
served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for purposes of this chapter
unless it meets the definitions of SMALL ESTABLISHMENT, MEDIUM ESTABLISHMENT or
LARGE ESTABLISHMENT.
§ 111.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
111.99(B).
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in a public
park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any public
place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or where
the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
Penalty, see § 111.99
LICENSING
§ 111.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of license which were issued as of the effective date of
this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger
number of licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum
held under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, Subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
§ 111.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of 1 year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 111.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
111.20. The Council of a city which has a municipal liquor store is authorized
to issue only those licenses specified in §
111.55.
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to golf
courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off-sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
111.23 shall not exceed $100 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
111.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2b,
as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion
authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the
licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under the
provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4b, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to
time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor
to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being
held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
111.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
111.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3c, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least 3 years. No license shall be for
longer than 4 consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12 days
worth of temporary licenses to any 1 organization in 1 calendar year.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at 1 time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
111.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.401, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The fee for
an on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of §
111.23 shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor
with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license.
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
111.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.14, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 111.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
§ 111.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 111.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant's age, representations as to the applicant's
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed.
§ 111.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 60 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 111.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
§ 111.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 111.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than 1 license shall be directly or indirectly issued within
the city to any 1 person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a corporation, all of the shareholders shall be
residents of the state. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to
any license existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of
an existing license.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any 1 of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale” license shall receive
training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training
shall be provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training
shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing services
in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose building
serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any
rules promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of §
111.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, at least 1-day
suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 3-year period, at least 3
consecutive days’ suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any 3-year period, at least 7
consecutive days’ suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any 3-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within 10 days. Any
suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council determines
that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this chapter
have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
111.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
Penalty, see § 111.99
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORES
§ 111.50 APPLICATION OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter, consisting of §§
111.50 through
111.55, applies only to a city that has in existence on the effective date of
this chapter a municipal liquor store.
§ 111.51 EXISTING MUNICIPAL STORES CONTINUED.
   If the city has in existence on the effective date of this chapter a
municipal liquor store for the sale of intoxicating liquor, the store is
continued. Except as provided in §
111.55, no intoxicating liquor may be sold at retail elsewhere in the city.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.52 LOCATION. 
   The municipal liquor store shall be located at a suitable place in the city
as the Council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes,
assessments, or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
municipal liquor store purposes. The Council shall have the right to establish
additional off-sale and on-sale stores at other locations as it may, from time
to time, by motion, determine.
§ 111.53 OPERATION.
   (A)   Manager. The municipal liquor store shall be in the immediate charge
of a Liquor Store Manager selected by the Council and paid compensation as is
fixed by the Council. The Manager shall not be a person who would be prohibited
by law or any provision of this chapter from being eligible for an intoxicating
liquor license. The Manager shall furnish a surety bond to the city,
conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of the office, in a sum
as specified by the Council. The bond premium may be paid by the city or the
Manager, in the discretion of the Council. The Manager shall operate the
municipal liquor store under the Council's direction and shall perform those
duties in connection with the store as may be established by the Council. The
Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the conduct of the store in
full compliance with this chapter and with the laws relating to the sale of
intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   (B)   Other employees. The Council may also appoint additional employees as
may be required and shall fix their compensation. All employees, including the
Manager, shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council. No person
under the age of 18 shall be employed in the store. The Council may require the
employees to furnish surety bonds conditioned for the faithful discharge of
their duties in a sum as specified by the Council. The premium on the bond may
be paid by the city or the employees, as the Council determines.
   (C)   Municipal liquor store fund. All of the revenues received from the
operation of a municipal liquor store shall be deposited in a municipal liquor
store fund from which all ordinary operating expenses, including compensation
of the Manager and employees, shall be paid. Surpluses accumulating in the fund
may be transferred to the general fund of the city or to any other appropriate
fund of the city by resolution of the Council, and may be expended for any
municipal purpose. The handling of municipal liquor store receipts and
disbursements shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law and charter for
the receipts and disbursements of city funds generally.
   (D)   Financial statement. The Council shall provide within 90 days
following the end of the calendar year for publication a balance sheet using
generally accepted accounting procedures and a statement of operations of the
municipal liquor store for that year. The balance sheet and statement shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 471.6985, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Hours of operation. The hours during which the sale of intoxicating
liquor may be sold shall be as provided in §
111.33. No person, other than the Manager or a store employee, may remain in
the municipal liquor store longer than 1/2 hour after the time when the sale of
intoxicating liquor must cease.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.54 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility required by
licensees of retail intoxicating liquor establishments under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 111.55 ISSUANCE OF OTHER LICENSES.
   (A)   On-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. The Council may
issue in its sound discretion on-sale licenses to a club under M.S. § 340A.404,
Subd. 1(4), as it may be amended from time to time. If the voters have
authorized their issuance at a special election called for that purpose, the
Council may issue on its sound discretion on-sale liquor licenses to hotels and
restaurants. The number of on-sale licenses issued under this section is
governed by M.S. § 340A.413, as it may be amended from time to time, as limited
by the provisions of this chapter. The issuance of these licenses is governed
by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. State law does
not authorize the issuance of off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating
liquor by cities which operate a municipal liquor dispensary.
   (C)   On- and off-sale 3.2% malt liquor licenses. The Council may issue 3.2%
malt liquor licenses in its sound discretion as provided in this chapter.
§ 111.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Chapter
340A as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that
chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of
this chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in
order for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the
Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended
from time to time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the
Council shall hold a hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty
and hear any person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds
for suspension or revocation of the license. The following is the minimum
schedule of presumptive civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to
any suspension unless the licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any 3-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any 3-year period,
$2,000.
   (C)   The term VIOLATION as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it
may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as
they may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be
determined on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding 3-year
period. Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which
revocation is imposed.
CHAPTER 112: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions and interpretations
   
112.03   License
   
112.04   Fees
   
112.05   Basis for denial of license
   
112.06   Prohibited sales
   
112.07   Vending machines
   
112.08   Self-service sales
   
112.09   Responsibility
   
112.10   Compliance checks and inspections
   
112.11   Other illegal acts
   
112.12   Violations
   
112.13   Exceptions and defenses
   
112.14   Effective date
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   To further the official public policy of the State of Minnesota in regard to
preventing young people from starting to smoke as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as
it may be amended from time to time, and to comply with the mandates of M.S. §
461.12, as it may be amended from time to time, requiring license and
regulation of tobacco sales.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.
The masculine shall include the feminine and neuter, and vice versa. The term
SHALL means mandatory and the term MAY means permissive.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices
are following and complying with the requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS shall involve the use of minors as authorized by this chapter.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of minors who attempt to purchase
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices for educational,
research, and training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of government for the
purpose of enforcing appropriate federal, state, or local laws and regulations
relating to tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this definition shall not be
considered individually packaged.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile, or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products,
or tobacco related devices are available for sale to the general public. RETAIL
ESTABLISHMENTS shall include, but not be limited to, grocery stores,
convenience stores, and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other
consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices, without the assistance
or intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee. The assistance or
intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco related device between the customer and the licensee or
employee. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not include vending machines.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including but not limited to, cigarettes; cigars; pipe tobacco; snuff; fine cut
or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready-rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers; cavendish;
shorts; plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse scraps, clippings,
cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in the manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing, or smoking.
   TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling
papers, or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a
manner which enables the chewing, sniffing, or smoking of tobacco or tobacco
products.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens, or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco related device.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 112.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco
products, or tobacco related devices without first having obtained a license to
do so from the city.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products, or tobacco related devices shall be made on a form provided by the
city. The application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the
applicant’s residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name
of the business for which the license if sought, and any additional information
the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed applications, the City
Administrative Clerk/Treasurer shall forward the application to the Council for
action at its next regularly scheduled Council meeting. If the Administrative
Clerk/Treasurer shall determine that an application is incomplete, he or she
shall return the application to the applicant with notice of the information
necessary to make the application complete.
   (C)   Action. The Council may either approve or deny the license, or it may
delay action for the reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
Council shall approve the license, the Clerk/Treasurer shall issue the license
to the applicant. If the Council denies the license, notice of the denial shall
be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant’s right to appeal
the council’s decision.
   (D)   Expiration. All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire on
December 31 of the year in which the license was issued.
   (E)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in §
112.12.
   (F)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the Council.
   (G)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (H)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premise.
   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 20 days but no more than 60 days before the
expiration of the current license. The issuance of a license issued under this
chapter shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the
applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the
license.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.04 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
set by City Council from time to time and as stated in the Fee Schedule in
Chapter 32.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 112.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Generally. The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or
renewal of a license under this chapter; however, except as may otherwise be
provided by law, the existence of any particular ground for denial does not
mean that the city must deny the license. If a license is mistakenly issued or
renewed to a person, it shall be revoked upon the discovery that the person was
ineligible for the license under this section.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years.
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past 5 years of any
violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products or tobacco related devices.
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products,
or tobacco related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date
of application.
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation, from holding such a license.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 112.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device:
   (A)   To a person under the age of 18 years;
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this chapter;
   (C)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premise in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco related device between the licensee or the licensee’s employee and the
customer;
   (D)   By means of loosies as defined in §
112.01; and/or
   (E)   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state, or other local law, ordinance provision, or
other regulation.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.07 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices by the means of a
vending machine unless minors are at all times prohibited from entering the
licensed establishment.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the sale of
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices by any means whereby the
customer may have access to the items without having to request the item from
the licensee or the licensee’s employee and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, or the tobacco related device between
the licensee or his or her clerk and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco
products, and tobacco related devices shall either be stored behind a counter
or other area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage
unit not left open and accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices at the time this chapter
is adopted shall comply with this section with 60 days. The self-service
restrictions described in this section shall not apply to retail stores which
derive at least 90% of their revenue from tobacco and tobacco related products
and which cannot be entered at any time by persons younger than 18 years of
age.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of such an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also subjecting the
clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or
federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 112.10 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the city police during
regular business hours. From time to time, but at least once per year, the city
shall conduct compliance checks by engaging, with the written consent of their
parents or guardians, minors over the age of 15 years but less than 18 years,
to enter the licensed premise to attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products,
or tobacco related devices. Minors used for the purpose of compliance checks
shall be supervised by city designated law enforcement officers. Minors used
for compliance checks shall not be guilty of unlawful possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, or tobacco related devices when the items are obtained as
part of the compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks shall attempt
to use a false identification misrepresenting the minor’s age, and all minors
lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about the
minor’s age asked by the licensee or his or her employee and shall product any
identification, if any exists, for which he or she is asked. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by state or federal laws
for educational, research, or training purposes, or required for the
enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.11 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Acts.
      (1)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco
related device to any minor.
      (2)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco
related device. This division (B)(2) shall not apply to minors lawfully
involved in a compliance check.
      (3)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor
to smoke, chew, sniff, or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco related device.
      (4)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for
any minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco,
tobacco product, or tobacco related device, and it shall be a violation of this
chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain the items on behalf of a
minor. It shall further be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to
coerce a minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco,
tobacco product, or tobacco related device. This division (B)(4) shall not
apply to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
      (5)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this
chapter for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of
a false form of identification, whether the identification is that of another
person or one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with
to represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.12 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged
violator shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets
forth the alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his
or her right to be heard on the accusation.
      (2)   Hearings. If a person accused of violating this chapter so
requests, a hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be
published and provided to the accused violator.
      (3)   Hearing officer. The City Council shall appoint 2 of its members,
as well as the Administrative Clerk/Treasurer, to serve as the hearing officer.
      (4)   Decision. If the hearing officer determines that a violation of
this chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officer’s reasons
for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under division (B) below,
shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the accused
violator. Likewise, if the hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or
finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, the findings shall be recorded and
a copy provided to the acquitted accused violator.
      (5)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall
be filed in the district court for the city in which the alleged violation
occurred.
      (6)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter. If the city elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, no
administrative penalty shall be imposed.
      (7)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Penalties.
      (1)   Licensees and employees. Any licensee found to have violated this
chapter, or whose employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged
an administrative fine of $75 for a first violation of this chapter; $200 for a
second offense at the same licensed premises within a 24-month period; and $250
for a third or subsequent offense at the same location within a 24-month
period. In addition, after the third offense, the license shall be suspended
for not less than 30 days.
      (2)   Other individuals. Other individuals, other than minors regulated
by division (B)(3) below, found to be in violation of this chapter shall be
charged an administrative fee of $50.
      (3)   Minors. Minors found in unlawful possession of, or who unlawfully
purchase or attempt to purchase, tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related
devices shall be referred to Blue Earth County Community Corrections for
diversion or prosecution.
      (4)   Misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 112.13 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco, tobacco
products, or tobacco related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully
recognized religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremony. It shall be an
affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter for a person to have
reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
§ 112.14 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect upon passage and publication according to
law.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-2-1997)
CHAPTER 113: REGULATING LAWFUL GAMBLING
Section
   
113.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
113.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
113.03   Purpose
   
113.04   Definitions
   
113.05   Applicability
   
113.06   Lawful gambling permitted
   
113.07   Council approval
   
113.08   Application and local approval of premises permits
   
113.09   Local permits
   
113.10   Revocation and suspension of local permit
   
113.11   License and permit display
   
113.12   Notification of material changes to application
   
113.13   Contribution of net profits to fund administered by city
   
113.14   Designated trade area
   
113.15   Records and reporting
   
113.16   Hours of operation
   
113.17   Severability
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 349, as they may be amended from time to
time, with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
provisions relating to sales, and all other matters pertaining to lawful
gambling, are hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this chapter
as if set out in full. It is the intention of the Council that all future
amendments of M.S. Chapter 349 are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as
if they had been in existence at the time this chapter was adopted.
§ 113.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 349.213, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on gambling within its limits beyond those contained in
M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 113.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the city,
to prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity of operations, and to
provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes.
§ 113.04 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   BOARD. The State of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   LICENSED ORGANIZATION. An organization licensed by the Board.
   LOCAL PERMIT. A permit issued by the city.
   TRADE AREA. This city and each city and township contiguous to this city.
§ 113.05 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be construed to regulate all forms of lawful gambling
within the city except:
   (A)   Bingo conducted within a nursing home or a senior citizen housing
project or by a senior citizen organization if: the prizes for a single bingo
game do not exceed $10; total prizes awarded at a single bingo occasion do not
exceed $200; no more than 2 bingo occasions are held by the organization or at
the facility each week; only members of the organization or residents of the
nursing home or housing project are allowed to play in a bingo game; no
compensation is paid for any persons who conduct the bingo; and a manager is
appointed to supervise the bingo.
   (B)   Raffles, if the value of all prizes awarded by the organization in a
calendar year does not exceed $750.
§ 113.06 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the city if the Council, by resolution
adopted by a majority of its members authorizes lawful gambling to occur,
provided it is conducted in accordance with M.S. §§ 609.75 to 609.763,
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time; M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.23,
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, and this chapter.
§ 113.07 COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Lawful gambling authorized by M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.23, inclusive, as they
may be amended from time to time, shall not be conducted unless approved by the
Council, subject to the provisions of this chapter and state law.
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.08 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit or bingo hall
license or renewal of a premises permit or bingo hall license from the Board
shall file with the City Clerk an executed, complete duplicate application
together with all exhibits and documents accompanying the application as filed
with the Board. The application and accompanying exhibits and documents shall
be filed not later than 3 days after they have been filed with the Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a premises
permit or bingo hall license, the City Clerk shall transmit the application to
the Chief of Police, or the Sheriff of the county in which this city is
located, for review and recommendation.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or Sheriff shall investigate the matter and make a
review and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (D)   Organizations or bingo halls applying for a state-issued premises
permit or bingo hall license shall pay the city a $100 investigation fee. This
fee shall be refunded if the application is withdrawn before the investigation
is commenced.
   (E)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (F)   The Council shall receive the Police Chief's or Sheriff's report and
consider the application within 45 days of the date the application was
submitted to the City Clerk.
   (G)   The Council shall, by resolution, approve or disapprove the
application within 60 days of receipt of the application.
   (H)   The Council shall disapprove an application for issuance or renewal of
a premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last 3 years.
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice, and protection of public safety within the last 3 years.
      (3)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at premises other than those for
which an on-sale liquor license has been issued.
      (4)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at more than 1 premises within
the city. The city may limit the number of premises where lawful gambling may
be conducted.
      (5)   An organization would be permitted to conduct lawful gambling
activities at more than 1 premises in the city.
      (6)   More than 1 licensed organization would be permitted to conduct
lawful gambling activities at 1 premises.
      (7)   Failure of the applicant to pay any investigation fee provided by
division (D) of this section within the prescribed time limit.
      (8)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community. Otherwise the Council shall pass a
resolution approving the application.
§ 113.09 LOCAL PERMITS.
   (A)   No organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded or exempted
from state licensure requirements by M.S. § 349.166, as it may be amended from
time to time, without a valid local permit. This section shall not apply to
lawful gambling exempted from local regulation by §
113.05.
   (B)   Applications for issuance or renewal of a local permit shall be on a
form prescribed by the city. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the organization requesting the permit.
      (2)   Name and address of the officers and person accounting for
receipts, expenses, and profits for the event.
      (3)   Dates of gambling occasion for which permit is requested.
      (4)   Address of premises where event will occur.
      (5)   Copy of rental or leasing arrangement, if any, connected with the
event, including rental to be charged to organization.
      (6)   Estimated value of prizes to be awarded.
   (C)   The fee for a local permit shall be $100. The fee shall be submitted
with the application for a local permit. This fee shall be refunded if the
application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a local
permit, the City Clerk shall transmit the notification to the Chief of Police
or Sheriff for review and recommendation.
   (E)   The Chief of Police or Sheriff shall investigate the matter and make
review and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (F)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (G)   The Council shall receive the Police Chief's or Sheriff's report and
consider the application within 45 days of the date the application was
submitted to the City Clerk.
   (H)   The Council shall disapprove an application for issuance or renewal of
a premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last 3 years.
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to the operation of the establishment, laws relating to alcoholic
beverages, gambling, controlled substances, suppression of vice, and protection
of public safety within the last 3 years.
      (3)   The organization has not been in existence in the city for at least
3 consecutive years prior to the date of application.
      (4)   The organization does not have at least 30 active members.
      (5)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not take place at a
premises the organization owns or rents.
      (6)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not be limited to a
premises for which an on-sale liquor license has been issued.
      (7)   An organization will have a permit to conduct exempted or excluded
lawful gambling activities on more than 1 premises in the city.
      (8)   More than 1 licensed, qualified organization will be conducting
exempted or excluded lawful gambling activities at any 1 premises.
      (9)   Failure of the applicant to pay permit fee provided by division (C)
of this section within the prescribed time limit.
      (10)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community. Otherwise the council shall approve the
application.
   (I)   Local permits shall be valid for 1 year after the date of issuance
unless suspended or revoked.
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.10 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LOCAL PERMIT.
   (A)   A local permit may be revoked or temporarily suspended for a violation
by the gambling organization of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to gambling.
   (B)   A license shall not be revoked or suspended until notice and an
opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the permitted person. The
notice shall be personally served and shall state the provision reasonably
believed to be violated. The notice shall also state that the permitted person
may demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the permit will not be
suspended until after the hearing is held. If the permitted person requests a
hearing, the Council shall hold a hearing on the matter at least 1 week after
the date on which the request is made. If, as a result of the hearing, the
Council finds that an ordinance violation exists, then the Council may suspend
or revoke the permit.
§ 113.11 LICENSE AND PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All permits issued under state law or this chapter shall be prominently
displayed during the permit year at the premises where gambling is conducted.
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.12 NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state-issued premises permit or a local permit
shall notify the city in writing whenever any material change in the
information submitted in the application occurs within 10 days of the change.
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.13 CONTRIBUTION OF NET PROFITS TO FUND ADMINISTERED BY CITY.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling within the city
pursuant to M.S. § 349.16, as it may be amended from time to time, shall
contribute 10% of its net profits derived from lawful gambling in the city to a
fund administered and regulated by the city without cost to the fund. The city
shall disburse the funds for lawful purposes as defined by M.S. § 349.12, Subd.
25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Payment under this section shall be made on the last day of each
month.
   (C)   The city's use of these funds shall be determined at the time of
adoption of the city's annual budget or when the budget is amended.
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.14 DESIGNATED TRADE AREA.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall
expend 100% of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes conducted
within the city's trade area.
   (B)   This section applies only to lawful purpose expenditures of gross
profits derived from gambling conducted at a premises within the city's
jurisdiction.
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.15 RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the City
Clerk 1 copy of all records and reports required to be filed with the Board,
pursuant to M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to time, and rules
adopted pursuant thereto, as they may be amended from time to time. The records
and reports shall be filed on or before the day they are required to be filed
with the Board.
   (B)   Organizations licensed by the Board shall file a report with the city
proving compliance with the trade area spending requirements imposed by §
113.14. Such report shall be made on a form prescribed by the city and shall be
submitted annually and in advance of application for renewal.
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.16 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
any day of the week.
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.17 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is found to be invalid for any reason by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining provisions shall
not be affected.
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates:
   (A)   Any provision of this chapter;
   (B)   M.S. §§ 609.75 to 609.763, inclusive, as they may be amended from time
to time; or
   (C)   M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.21, as they may be amended from time to time, or
any rules promulgated under those sections, as they may be amended from time to
time; shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
114.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
114.04   License ineligibility
   
114.05   License suspension and revocation
   
114.06   License transferability
   
114.07   Registration
   
114.08   Prohibited activities
   
114.09   Exclusion by placard
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
HAWKER.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent, or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the City Hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she  may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any 1 location for more
than 14 consecutive days.
§ 114.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise, or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold
by the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes
initial contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
114.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
§ 114.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S.
Chapter 329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a
license for the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are still required to register pursuant to §
114.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer. All applications shall be signed by the
applicant. All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   Applicant’s full legal name;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any);
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days);
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last 5 years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the 3 most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any requested county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established by City Council.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk/Treasurer, within 2 regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk/
Treasurer determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk/
Treasurer must inform the applicant of the required necessary information that
is missing. If the application is complete, the City Clerk/Treasurer must order
any investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the
information provided with the application. Within 10 regular business days of
receiving a complete application the City Clerk/Treasurer must issue the
license unless there exist grounds for denying the license under §
114.04, in which case the Clerk/Treasurer must deny the license. If the City
Clerk/Treasurer denies the license, the applicant must be notified in writing
of the decision, the reason for denial, and of the applicant’s right to appeal
the denial by requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a
public hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal
within 20 days of the date of the request. The decision of the City Council
following the public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court
of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for 1 calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person’s
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion, and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person’s
exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fund raisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past 5 years from the date
of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation,
or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s ability to
conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an honest and
legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past 5 years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant; and/or
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than 3 complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General’s Office, or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or 3 complaints filed
against the applicant within the preceding 5 years.
§ 114.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statements on the
application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made during the
course of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
114.04; and/or
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk/Treasurer within 10
regular business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed
with the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service
shall be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail.
If a public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall
be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within 3 regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.07 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under §
114.03, shall be required to register with the city. Persons engaging in door-
to-door advocacy shall not be required to register. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as vehicles for
the dissemination of religious, political, and other ideas. Registration shall
be made on the same form required for a license application, but no fee shall
be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City
Clerk/Treasurer shall issue to the registrant a certificate of registration as
proof of the registration. Certificates of registration shall be non-
transferable.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall conduct business in any
of the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person; and/or
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating, or abusive.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least 4 inches long and 4 inches
wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors,
or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants
Prohibited,” or other comparable statement. No person other than the property
owner or tenant shall remove, deface, or otherwise tamper with any sign or
placard under this section.
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Social host liability
   
130.03   Restricting predatory offender residency
   
130.04   Cannabis use within public property
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for 4 primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Public Safety Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT, OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession, or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence; and/or
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or
other adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless 1 of
the exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (I)   Affirmative defense. A law enforcement officer must look into whether
a minor has an affirmative defense before making an arrest.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.02 SOCIAL HOST LIABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The City Council intends to discourage underage
possession and consumption of alcohol, even if done within the confines of a
private residence, and intends to hold persons criminally responsible who host
events or gatherings where persons under 21 years of age possess or consume
alcohol regardless of whether the person hosting the event or gathering
supplied the alcohol.
   (B)   Authority. This section is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 145A.05.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol; hydrated oxide of ethyl; or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits, including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer and which contains
0.5% or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either
alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
      EVENT OR GATHERING. Any group of 3 or more persons who have assembled or
gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
      HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit a gathering or event.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
         (a)   As natural/adoptive parent or stepparent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian; or
         (c)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation, or any
association of 1 or more individuals.
      RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park, or any other places of assembly, public or private, where occupied
on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Any individual under 21 years of age.
   (D)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person(s) to:
         (a)   Host or allow an event or gathering;
         (b)   At any residence, premises, or on any other private or public
property;
         (c)   Where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present;
         (d)   When the person knows or reasonably should know that an underage
person will or does:
            1.   Consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; or
            2.   Possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the intent to
consume it; and
         (e)   The person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent possession
or consumption by the underage person(s).
      (2)   A person is criminally responsible for violating division (D)(1)
above if the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, or conspires
with or otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
      (3)   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be
present at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while present in the parent’s household.
      (2)   This section does not apply to legally-protected religious
observances.
      (3)   This section does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit holders
who are regulated by M.S. § 340A.503, Subd. 1(a)(1).
      (4)   This section does not apply to situations where underage persons
are lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course
and scope of employment.
   (F)   Enforcement. This section can be enforced by any police officer or
sheriff’s deputy in the county.
   (G)   Penalty. Violation of division (D) is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 130, passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 RESTRICTING PREDATORY OFFENDER RESIDENCY.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of the city to protect the nature of the
community for all of its citizens. In order to fulfill that interest, the City
Council has determined it is appropriate to restrict the residency of certain
predatory offenders by creating areas around locations where children regularly
congregate in concentrated numbers; and also to prohibit certain predatory
offenders from establishing temporary or permanent residence in such areas.
   (B)   Findings. The City Council finds that repeat predatory offenders
present a real threat to public safety and especially to that of children.
Certain predatory offenders are likely to use physical violence and present a
high risk to repeat their offenses. That makes dealing with the danger posed by
repeat predatory offenders extremely important.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD. Any person under 18 years of age.
      DESIGNATED PREDATORY OFFENDER. Any person who is required to register as
a predatory offender under M.S. § 243.166, and who has been categorized as a
level III predatory offender under M.S. § 244.052, or similar statute from
another state. Also, any person who has been convicted or has plead guilty to
criminal sexual conduct under M.S. §§ 609.342, 609.343, 609.344, 609,345,
609.3451, Subd. 3, or 609.3453, or successor statute, in which the victim of
the offense was less than 16 years of age.
      LICENSED CHILD CARE CENTER. A child care center currently licensed by
Blue Earth County, Minnesota Public Health and Human Services.
      PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides
for 14 or more consecutive days. An ownership interest by the person in such
residence is not required.
      PUBLIC PARK, PLAYGROUND, or RECREATIONAL CENTER. Any area city owned,
county owned, state owned, or privately owned, but open to the public, that is
designed, equipped, or set aside for children's play, and includes in that area
such facilities as play equipment, surfacing, fencing, signs, internal
pathways, internal land forms, vegetation, and related structures.
      PUBLIC TRAIL. A trail designated by a city, county, state, or federal
government for the use of the public for recreational pursuits, such as hiking,
walking, running, cycling, or snowmobiling.
      SCHOOL. Any public or nonpublic preschool, elementary, or secondary
school.
      TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides
for a period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year, and
which is not the person's permanent address; or a place where the person
routinely abides, lodges, or resides for a period of four or more consecutive
or non-consecutive days in any month and which is not the person's permanent
residence.
   (D)   Prohibited locations of residence. It is unlawful for any designated
predatory offender to establish a permanent residence or temporary residence
within 2,000 feet of any of the following:
      (1)   Schools;
      (2)   Licensed child care centers;
      (3)   Public parks, playgrounds, or recreational centers;
      (4)   Places of worship which provide regular educational programs;
      (5)   Designated public trails;
      (6)   Public and private gymnasiums;
      (7)   Sports facilities and areas where children are known to congregate
(for example, baseball fields, softball fields, football fields, ice rinks,
hockey rinks, soccer fields, basketball courts, sliding hills, tennis courts,
volleyball courts, and the like);
      (8)   The permanent or temporary residences of any other designated
predatory offenders; and
      (9)   Designated public or private school bus pickup and drop off sites.
   (E)   Measurement of distance. For the purpose of determining the minimum
distance of separation, the requirement shall be measured by following a
straight line from the outer property line of the permanent residence or
temporary residence, to the nearest outer property line of the properties
listed in division (D).
   (F)   Exceptions. A designated predatory offender residing within a
prohibited area as described in division (D) does not commit a violation of
this section if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The designated predatory offender established the permanent
residence or temporary residence and reported and registered the residence
pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166 and 243.167, or a successor statute, prior to
enactment of this section;
      (2)   The designated predatory offender was a minor when he or she
committed the offense and was not convicted as an adult;
      (3)   The designated predatory offender is a minor;
      (4)   The designated predatory offender has been granted a risk level
reduction by the End of Confinement Review Committee, pursuant to M.S. §
244.052, Subd. 3(i), or a successor statute;
      (5)   The school, licensed child care center, or public park, playground,
or recreational center was opened after the designated predatory offender
established the permanent or temporary residence and properly reported and
registered the same pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166 and 243.167, or a successor
statute; or
      (6)   The residence is also the primary residence of the designated
predatory offenders parents, grandparents, siblings, or spouse, and was their
residence prior to enactment of this section.
   (G)   Property owners prohibited from renting real property to designated
predatory offenders in the exclusion zones.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to rent or lease real
estate to any designated predatory offender if the property is in the
prohibited zone established in division (D). If a property owner discovers or
is informed that a tenant is a designated predatory offender after a rental
agreement is signed, a property owner shall commence eviction proceedings
against the designated offender and take action to ensure that the designated
predatory offender is not residing in the exclusion zone.
      (2)   Property owners in violation of this provision shall be punished as
set forth in division (H).
   (H)   Penalty. Any person or entity that violates any provision of this
section shall be punished according to the laws of the State of Minnesota. A
violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day a person
maintains a temporary or permanent residence in violation of this section
constitutes a separate violation.
(Ord. 139, passed 2-6-2017)
§ 130.04 CANNABIS USE WITHIN PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Property that is generally open to or accessible by the
public, except on those premises licensed by the State of Minnesota to permit
on-site consumption.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property, real and personal, that is owned, managed, or
controlled by the city, including, but not limited to: city buildings and all
the land thereon, parks, recreational areas, and any city personal property,
such as motor vehicles, city equipment, and the like.
      CANNABIS FLOWER, CANNABIS PRODUCTS, LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES, and HEMP-
DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS shall have the meanings as defined in M.S. § 342.01
(enacted under Minnesota Laws 2023).
   (B)   Prohibition. No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products,
lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products within public
property.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section is a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 130.10, passed - -)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   ZONING CODE
         
151.   FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: ZONING CODE
Section
   
150.01   Purposes; scope; interpretation; short title
   
150.02   Interpretation of terminology
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Zoning instruments
   
150.05   A-1 Agriculture District
   
150.06   R-1 Residential District
   
150.07   R-2 Manufactured Home Park District
   
150.08   B-1 Highway Business District
   
150.09   B-2 General Business District
   
150.10   I-1 Industrial District
   
150.11   General performance standards for all properties
   
150.12   Parking and loading regulations
   
150.13   Sign regulations
   
150.14   Trucks, trailers, and campers
   
150.15   Satellite dishes and other dishes
   
150.16   Building and construction of residential swimming pools and spas
   
150.17   Nonconforming uses of land or structures
   
150.18   Conditional use permits
   
150.19   Variances
   
150.20   Planning Commission
   
150.21   Zoning permits
   
150.22   Amendment
   
150.23   Enforcement
   
150.24   Effective date
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 PURPOSES; SCOPE; INTERPRETATION; SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   Purposes. This chapter is enacted for the following purposes: to
promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city,
by lessening congestion in the streets, securing safety from fire, panic, and
other dangers; providing adequate light and air; preventing the overcrowding of
land; avoiding undue concentration of population; facilitating the adequate
provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, park and other public
requirements, conserving the value of properties; and encouraging the most
appropriate use of land.
   (B)   Scope. From and after the effective date of this chapter, the use of
all land and every building or portion of a building erected, altered, and with
respect to height and area, added to or relocated and every use within a
building or use accessory thereto, in the city shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. Any existing building or structure and any existing
use of properties not in conformity with the regulations herein prescribed
shall be regarded as nonconforming, but may be continued, extended, or changed
subject to the special regulations herein provided with respect to
nonconforming properties or uses.
   (C)   Interpretation. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
chapter, they shall be held to be minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare. Where the
provisions of this chapter impose greater restrictions than those of any
statute, other ordinance, or regulation, the provisions of this chapter shall
be controlling. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance, or
regulation impose greater restrictions than this chapter, the provisions of the
statute, other ordinance, or regulation shall be controlling.
   (D)   Short title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
Zoning Ordinance for the City of Amboy.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
§ 150.02 INTERPRETATION OF TERMINOLOGY.
   For the purpose of this chapter:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular;
   (B)   The word “person” shall include a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual;
   (C)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary;
   (D)   The word “may” is permissive;
   (E)   The word “lot” shall include the words “plot,” “piece,” and “parcel”;
and
   (F)   The word “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for,”
“designed for,” “intended for,” “maintained for,” and “occupied for.”
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A secondary building which is located on the same lot as
the main building and the use of which is clearly incidental to the use of the
main building. The building shall not exceed 10 feet by 12 feet and 12 feet to
the peak.
   AGRICULTURE. The art or science of cultivating the soil and activities
incidental thereto; the growing of soil crops in the customary manner on open
tracts of land; the accessory raising of livestock and poultry but excluding
livestock feedlots and extensive poultry farming. The term shall include
incidental retail selling by the producer of products raised on the premises,
provided that space necessary for parking of vehicles of customers shall be
furnished outside the public right-of-way.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way less than 25 feet in width which provides
secondary access to abutting property.
   ALTERATION. As applied to a building or structure, is a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts, or enlargement or the moving from 1
location or position to another.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite or rooms designed for, intended for, or used as a
residence for 1 family or individual and equipped with cooking facilities.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. Three or more apartments grouped in 1 building.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION OR FILLING STATION. A place where gasoline,
kerosene, or any other motor fuel or lubrication oil or grease for operating
motor vehicles is offered for sale and delivered directly into motor vehicles
including greasing and oiling.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A building of residential design which is the owner’s
personal residence and is occupied by the owner at the time of rental that
provides 4 or fewer rooms for rent to guests. For purposes of this definition,
the term GUEST shall mean persons renting the accommodations for a total period
of time not to exceed 14 days during any consecutive 90-day period. Guests are
allowed to use the living room, dining room, and the like areas of the
residence as common areas available to everyone.
(Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
   BILLBOARD. See SIGN, ADVERTISING.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, waterways, or
boundary lines of the corporate limits of the city.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The City Council.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or motel, where for
compensation and by pre-arrangements for definite periods, meals, or lodging
and meals, are provided for 3 or more persons not members of the immediate
family therein.
   BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter, support, or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattel, or property of any kind; and when separated by part walls
without openings, each portion of the building so separated shall be deemed a
separate building.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building surrounded by open space, the open space
being on the same zoning lot as the building.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade at the front wall
of the building to the highest point of the roof.
   BULK AND DENSITY CONTROLS. Those regulations or controls which specify the
setback lines, lot sizes, building height, maximum ground coverage, lot width,
and lot depth.
   CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm, and injured persons and those who are in need or medical or surgical
attention, but who are not provided with board or room nor kept overnight on
the premises.
   CLUB. A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members, paying
regular dues, and are organized for some common purpose, but not including a
group organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on
as a commercial enterprise.
   COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM. A system of sewer control and processing serving a
group of buildings and lots with the design and construction of the systems as
approved by the State of Minnesota.
   CORNER LOT. See LOT, CORNER.
   DISTRICT ZONING. A section of the city for which the regulations governing
the height, area, use of building and premises are the same as delineated by
the Zoning Map.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including 1-family, 2-family, and multiple-family units,
but not including hotels, motels, boarding or lodging houses.
   DWELLING, 2-FAMILY. A dwelling designed exclusively for occupancy by 2
families living independent of each other.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED (GROUP, ROW, OR TOWNHOUSE). A dwelling joined to other
dwellings by a party wall or walls.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling entirely surrounded by open space, the open
space being on the same zoning lot as the dwelling.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A dwelling containing 3 or more dwelling units,
designed with more than 1 dwelling unit connecting to a common corridor or
entranceway, originally constructed for the purpose; and not including
converted dwellings or attached row dwellings (party-wall type) as defined
herein.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling containing accommodations for
and occupied by 1 family only.
   DWELLING UNIT. Two or more rooms in a dwelling designed for occupancy by 1
family for living purposes and having its own permanently installed cooking and
sanitary facilities.
   EARTH-SHELTERED BUILDING. A building constructed so that 50% or more of the
exterior is covered or in contact with earth. Exterior surface includes all
walls and roof, but excludes garages and other accessory buildings. Earth
covering on walls is measured from the floor of the structure’s lowest level.
Earth covering on the roof must be at least 12 inches deep to be included in
calculations in earth covering. An earth sheltered building must satisfy the
building code standard promulgated pursuant to M.S. § 16.85, as it may be
amended from time to time. Partially completed buildings shall not be
considered earth sheltered. Basement homes shall not be considered earth
sheltered.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the
purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities, including, but not limited
to sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewer
or storm drainage ways and gas lines.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals related by blood, marriage, adoption or
foster care, or not more than 5 persons not so related, maintaining a common
household and using common cooking and kitchen facilities; as distinguished
from a group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, hotel, or motel.
   FAMILY, IMMEDIATE. Persons related by blood, marriage, or certified legal
instrument.
   FARM. A tract of land, 10 acres or more in size, or a tract producing in
excess of $2,000 annual value of agricultural products and used for the
production of cash crops. The farm may include an agricultural dwelling and
accessory buildings and structures necessary to the operation of the farm.
   FEEDLOT. A lot or building, or combination of contiguous lots and buildings,
intended for the confined feeding, breeding, raising, or holding of animals and
specifically designed as a confinement area in which manure may accumulate, or
where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative cover cannot be
maintained within the enclosure. For purposes of these parts, open lots used
for feeding and rearing of poultry (poultry ranges) and barns, dairy farms,
swine facilities, beef lots and barns, horse stalls, mink ranches, and
domesticated animal zoos shall be considered to be animal feedlots. Pastures
shall not be considered animal feedlots under these parts.
   FRONTAGE. All the property fronting on 1 side of a street between the
nearest intersecting street or between a street or right-of-way, waterway, or
other similar barrier.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or accessory portion of a principal
building designed and used for the storage of private passenger vehicles of the
family or families resident in the principal building, and in which no
business, service, or industry is conducted.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any structure except those described as a private garage,
used for the storage or care of power-driven vehicles, or where any such
vehicles are equipped for operation, repair, or are kept for renumeration, hire
or sale.
   GREEN SPACE. See OPEN SPACE.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or profession carried on by an occupant of a
dwelling as an accessory activity to the main use of the premises as a
dwelling. It shall not change the residential character thereof and will meet
the following restrictions.
      (1)   Not more than 1 person shall be employed other than persons
residing on the premises.
      (2)   The occupation shall be conducted wholly within the dwelling or an
accessory building.
      (3)   Floor area devoted to the occupation shall not exceed 25% of the
area of the main floor of the principal dwelling and/or attached or detached
accessory building.
      (4)   The home occupations shall not require internal or external
alterations or involved construction features not customarily found in
dwellings.
      (5)   Conduct of the home occupation does not generate more noise,
vibration, glare, fumes, odor, dust, electrical interference or hazards or
nuisances noticeable outside of the dwelling and/or accessory building than
normally associated with residential occupancy in the neighborhood and shall
not be objectionable to adjacent residences due to hours of operation.
      (6)   There shall be no display or evidence apparent from the exterior of
the lot that the premises are being used for any purpose other than that of a
dwelling except that 1 sign, 1-1/2 square feet, non-illuminated and attached to
the dwelling shall be allowed.
      (7)   The use shall not generate sewage of a nature or rate greater than
that normally associated with residential occupancy, nor shall it generate
hazardous waste or solid waste at a rate greater than that normally associated
with residential occupancy.
      (8)   No home occupations will be allowed that jeopardize the health and
safety of residents in the city.
      (9)   There shall be no renting of dwelling or yard space in a
residential zoned area for nonresidential purposes.
      (10)   Rental of attached and detached accessory buildings for motorized
vehicles and/or recreational vehicles is permitted.
      (11)   All nonconforming home occupations legally existing prior to the
adoption of this definition shall be allowed to continue but shall not be
allowed to expand, rebuild, relocate, replace, or alter without being brought
into compliance with all the requirements of this definition.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
   HOTEL. A building occupied as a temporary abiding place of individuals who
are lodged with or without meals in which there are more than 5 sleeping rooms
and wherein no provisions made for cooking in any individual room or apartment.
   JUNK YARD/SALVAGE YARD. Land or buildings where waste, discarded or salvaged
materials are brought, sold, stored, exchanged, cleaned, packed, disassembled
or handled, including, but not limited to scrap metal, rags, paper, hides,
rubber products, glass products, lumber products and products resulting from
the wrecking of automobiles or other machinery. JUNK YARDS/SALVAGE YARDS are
not permitted in any zoning district in the City of Amboy.
   KENNEL. A place where more than 3 dogs or more than 4 cats or a combination
of both dogs and cats exceeding 4 in number and over 3 months of age are kept,
harbored, or maintained. KENNELS are permitted only in areas specifically zoned
within the city for the use.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-2-1995)
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a principal structure or
group of structures and accessory structures together with the yards, open
spaces, lot width and lot area as are required by this chapter, and having the
required frontage upon a street, either shown and identified by lot number on a
plat of record, or considered as a unit of property and described by metes and
bounds. The lot shall be bounded by lines, as defined herein.
   LOT AREA. The area located within the lot lines and not including that
portion of the platted lot which is presently being used as or dedicated for
street or public right-of-way.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of, and abutting on 2 or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
continuous street, the interior angle of which does not exceed 135 degrees.
   LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street. In the case of a corner bare lot it shall be that street line
designated by the owner and filed with the Zoning Officer which shall hereafter
be the front lot line. In the case of a corner lot with an existing building
located thereon, the lot line facing the front side of the structure shall
hereafter be the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
If the rear line is less than 10 feet in length, or if the lot forms a point at
the rear, the rear lot line shall be a line 10 feet in length within the lot,
parallel to, and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not at a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT, MULTIPLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on 2 or more streets.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in 1 or more sections used as a
dwelling for 1 family, with or without a permanent foundation when connected to
the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning,
and electrical systems contained therein. No manufactured dwelling shall be
moved into the City of Amboy that does not meet the Manufactured Home Building
Code as defined in M.S. § 327.31, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A contiguous parcel of land which has been planned
for the placement of 2 or more manufactured homes or manufactured home lots.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A method of property description by means of their
direction and distance from an easily identifiable point.
   MODULAR HOME. A non-mobile housing unit that is basically fabricated at a
central factory and transported to a building site where final installations
are made, permanently affixing the module to the site.
   MOTEL. See HOTEL.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or portion thereof existing at the time
of adoption of this chapter and not conforming to the regulations for the
district in which it is situated, except that such a use is not nonconforming
if it would be authorized under a conditional use permit where located.
   NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND. Any use of a lot which does not conform to the
applicable use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE OF STRUCTURES. A use of a structure which does not conform
to the applicable use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NURSING HOME. A home designed and licensed to provide care for aged or
infirm persons requiring or receiving personal care or custodial care complying
with the standards established by the Minnesota State Board of Health.
   OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC. Any publicly owned open area, including, but not limited
to, the following: parks, playgrounds, school sites, parkways, and streets.
   OPEN SPACES. Land areas which are undeveloped and left in their natural
states.
   OWNER or PROPERTY OWNER. The owner of land or the beneficial owner of land,
whose interest is primarily one of ownership or possession and enjoyment in
contemplation of ultimate ownership. The term includes, but is not limited to,
mortgages and vendors under a contract for deed.
   PARKING SPACE. A land area exclusive of driveways and aisles, of the shape
and dimensions and so prepared as to be usable for the parking of a motor
vehicle, and so located as to be readily accessible to a public street or
alley. Truck loading and unloading space shall not be included in the area.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Amboy,
Minnesota.
   PREMISES. A lot or plot with the required front, side, and rear yards for a
dwelling or other uses as allowed under this chapter.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department, or
board fully authorized to furnish under municipal regulation to the public,
electricity, gas, steam, communications services, telegraph services,
transportation, or water.
   REST HOME. See NURSING HOME.
   ROAD. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrian and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, land, place, or
however otherwise designated.
   ROOMING HOUSE. See LODGING HOUSE.
   SCREENING. The use of plants, materials, fences, or earthen berms to
partially conceal the separate land use from the surrounding land uses.
   SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land parallel to a
public road, street, or highway right-of-way line defining that minimum
distance between the building and property line in which buildings or
structures may not be placed.
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display, illustration, or device
which is affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure, or land in view of the general public and which directs attention to
a product, place, activity, person, institution, or business. Warning signs or
public identification signs such as street signs shall be exempt from these
regulations when under 2 square feet in size.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, activity, or entertainment not necessarily conducted, sold, or offered
upon the premises where such a sign is located.
   SIGN, AREA OF. See SIGN, SURFACE AREA OF.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
or a commodity, service, or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises
where such a sign is located.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign which directs attention to, and is located on,
real estate being offered for sale.
   SIGN, SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the actual sign surface, not including any
structural elements outside the limits of the sign and not forming an integral
part of this display. Only 1 side of a double-face or V-type sign structure
shall be used in computing total surface area.
   STANDARD, PERFORMANCE. A criterion established in the interest of protecting
the public health and safety for the control of noise, odor, smoke, noxious
gases, and other objectionable or dangerous elements.
   STORY. The portion of the building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it, or, if there is no floor above it,
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. The portion of a building under a gable, hip, or gambrel roof,
the wall plates of which, on at least 2 opposite exterior walls, are not more
than 2 feet above the floor of the story.
   STREET. A public right-of-way 40 feet or more in width, which provides a
primary means of public access to abutting property. The term STREET shall
include avenue, drive, circle, road, parkway, boulevard, highway, thoroughfare,
or any other similar term. Also, see ROAD.
   STREET LINE. The right-of-way line of a street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders, or any substantial changes
in the roof and exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground. When a structure is divided into separate parts by an
unpierced wall, each part shall be deemed a separate structure.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into 2 or more lots or parcels or the division of a lot, tract, or parcel of
land into 2 or more lots, tracts or parcels for the purpose of transferring
ownership or building development, or if a new street is involved, any division
or development of a parcel of land. The term shall include RE-SUBDIVISION of
land; provided, however, that the sale or exchange of small parcels of platted
land to or between adjoining property owners shall not be considered as a
subdivision.
   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling which maintains private ingress and
egress, attached to its own foundation, contains no independent dwellings above
or below it and is attached to other similar dwellings by a common wall.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis, designed
to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses,
permanently identified as TRAVEL TRAILER by the manufacturer of the trailer.
   USE. The purpose for which land or premises or a building thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use subordinate to the main use on the same lot and used
for purposes customarily incidental to those of the main use.
   USE, CONDITIONAL. A land use or development as defined by this chapter that
may be allowed with appropriate restrictions as provided by official controls
upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in this chapter exist;
      (2)   The use or development conforms to the Land Use Plan of the city;
and
      (3)   Is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   USE, PERMITTED. A public or private use which of itself conforms with the
purposes, objectives, requirements, regulations, and performance standards of a
particular district.
   VACATION. The act of relinquishing a recorded dedication or easement as in a
street right-of-way, utility easement, and the like.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the application of the zoning ordinance to a
specific lot where, because of unique physical circumstances, strict
enforcement would cause an undue hardship or practical difficulties in the use
of land.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines and extending from the abutting street right-of-way line
to depth required in the setback regulations for the zoning in which the lot is
located.
   YARD, REAR. The portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal
building located between the rear line of the building and the rear lot line
and extending for the full width of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. The yard extending along the side lot line between the front
yard and rear yards to a depth or width required by setback requirements for
the zoning district in which the lot is located.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The designated Zoning Administrator of the City of
Amboy, Minnesota. The duties of the Zoning Administrator are currently the
responsibility of the Administrative Clerk/Treasurer.
   ZONING LOT. A plot of ground, made up of 1 or more parcels of land, which is
or may be occupied by a use, building or buildings, including the open spaces
required by this chapter.
   ZONING MAP. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter as part hereof,
designating the zoning districts.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995; Am. Ord. passed 1-3-2005)
§ 150.04 ZONING INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   Zoning Map. The location and boundaries of the districts established
by this chapter are hereby set forth on the Zoning Map and the map is hereby
made a part of this chapter, which map shall be known as the City of Amboy
Zoning Map. The Map and all notations, references, and data shown thereon are
hereby incorporated by reference into this chapter and shall be as much a part
of it as if all were fully described herein. It shall be the responsibility of
the Administrative Clerk/Treasurer/City Council to maintain the map, and
amendments thereto shall be recorded on the zoning map within 30 days after
official publication of amendments. The Official Zoning Map shall be kept on
file in the office of the Administrative Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   District boundary lines. Wherever any uncertainty exists as to the
boundary of any land use district as shown on the Zoning Map incorporated
herein, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as following streets,
highways, alleys, railroads, or similar rights-of-way, they shall be construed
as following the center lines thereof.
      (2)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as approximately
following lot lines or section lines, the lines shall be construed to be the
boundaries.
      (3)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as parallel to or
extensions of features indicated above in this section, it shall be so
construed.
      (4)   Distances not specifically indicated on the Zoning Map shall be
determined by the scale of the map.
      (5)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Zoning Map, or in other circumstances not
covered by this division (B), the Board of Adjustment shall interpret the
district boundaries.
      (6)   Where a plotted lot held in 1 ownership and of record at the
effective date of this chapter is divided by a district boundary line, the
entire lot shall be construed to be within the least restrictive district.
   (C)   Annexations. Territory hereafter annexed to the city, which is not
shown on the Zoning Map as part of this chapter, shall be zoned in accordance
with the land use plan. Consideration of zoning other than in accordance with
the land use plan should not be done without amending the land use plan.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
§ 150.05 A-1 AGRICULTURE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This district is established to recognize a district that is
best suited for the transition between urban and agricultural use, to prevent
unplanned, non-farm development, and to permit orderly and economic development
of public services and utilities.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted within the A-
1 Agriculture District:
      (1)   Farming and truck gardening, including farm dwellings, nurseries,
greenhouses, horticulture, apiaries, excluding livestock raising, livestock
feedlots, and intensive poultry farming;
      (2)   One- and 2-family non-farm detached dwellings;
      (3)   Churches, public schools, and public buildings, providing that no
building shall be located within 50 feet of any lot in a residential district;
      (4)   Home occupations, as defined in §
150.03;
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
      (5)   Flood control and watershed structures;
      (6)   Parks, recreational areas, wildlife areas, game refuges, and forest
preserves owned by governmental agencies;
      (7)   Golf courses, except club houses, miniature courses, and driving
tees operated for commercial purposes; and
      (8)   Accessory buildings and accessory uses customarily incidental to
the above uses.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted if granted a
conditional use permit as provided in §
150.18:
      (1)   Water supply buildings, reservoirs, wells, elevated tanks, and
similar essential public utility and service structures;
      (2)   Private commercial landing fields and associated facilities;
      (3)   Veterinary and animal clinics and facilities for the care of
animals, including kennels;
      (4)   Cemeteries;
      (5)   Golf clubhouse, country club, public swimming pool, private
swimming pool serving more than 1 family, provided that no principal structure
shall be located within 50 feet of any lot in a residential district; and
      (6)   Uses determined by the Planning Commission of similar nature to the
conditional uses above and found not to be detrimental to the general health
and welfare of the city.
   (D)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Private garages and carports;
      (2)   Private recreation facilities such as tennis courts, swimming
pools, and spas;
      (3)   Tool houses and sheds or similar storage buildings for domestic
supplies; and
      (4)   Accessory buildings or structures which are clearly incidental to
any of the uses listed above, but must be located on the same property.
   (E)   Height regulations. No building hereafter erected shall exceed 2-1/
2 stories or 35 feet in height.
   (F)   Front yard regulations. For all uses allowed there shall be a front
yard having a depth of not less than 50 feet. Where a lot is located at the
intersection of 2 or more streets, then §
150.03 shall determine which of the 2 or more sides abutting streets shall be
considered the front yard. No accessory buildings shall project beyond the
front yard. Also, accessory buildings on corner lots shall not be erected
closer to the street line than the minimum side yard requirements hereunder for
the main building on the lot.
(Am. Ord. passed 1-3-2005)
   (G)   Side yard regulations. There shall be a side yard, on each side of a
building, having a width of not less than 15 feet.
   (H)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 25% of the depth of the lot or 25 feet, whichever is greater.
   (I)   Lot area regulations. Every lot or tract of land upon which a
structure is erected shall have an area of not less than 1 acre unless it is
connected to municipal utilities. Except that if a lot or tract has less area
or width than herein required and was legally platted and was of record at the
time of the passage of this chapter, that lot may be used for any of the uses
permitted in this section.
   (J)   Lot width and depth regulations. Every lot or plot of land on which a
1-family dwelling is erected shall have a minimum width of not less than 150
feet and a depth of not less than 200 feet. No lot shall have a depth greater
than 3 times its width.
   (K)   General regulations. Additional regulations applicable to the A-
1 Agricultural District are set forth in §
150.11.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.06 R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-1 District is intended to provide low density
residential areas.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in R-
1 Residential District:
      (1)   Single-family and 2-family dwellings;
      (2)   Parks and recreational areas owned or operated by governmental
agencies;
      (3)   Public schools, private schools, nursery schools, churches,
hospitals, nursing and convalescent homes; and
      (4)   Home occupations as defined in §
150.03.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
   (C)   Conditional uses. Buildings or land may be used for the following if
granted a conditional use permit:
      (1)   Multiple-family dwellings and apartment buildings;
      (2)   Municipal administration buildings, police and fire stations,
museums, art galleries, post offices and other municipal service buildings;
      (3)   Water supply buildings, reservoirs, wells, elevated tanks, and
similar essential public utility and service structures;
      (4)   Mortuaries and funeral homes;
      (5)   Boarding or rental rooms not exceeding 5 to 8 persons on a premise;
      (6)   Hospitals/clinics;
      (7)   Open land recreational uses;
      (8)   Uses determined by the Planning Commission to be of the general
character of the conditional uses above and found not to be detrimental to the
general health and welfare of the city; and
      (9)   Bed and breakfast establishments, if the following conditions are
met.
         (a)   The establishment shall conform with State Health and Building
Code requirements. Reports of compliance shall accompany any application for
the permit. The owner/operator of such a facility shall maintain a policy of
liability insurance providing at least $1,000,000 combined/single limit
coverage.
         (b)   Written application for a conditional use permit to operate a
bed and breakfast shall be made to the Zoning Administrator’s office and action
on the application shall follow the procedures as found in §
150.18.
         (c)   The only meal served to guests shall be breakfast and only
guests shall be served.
         (d)   No cooking or cooking facilities shall be allowed or provided in
the guest rooms.
         (e)   No function (such as a reception or a business meeting)
involving large numbers of non-guests is permitted on the site.
         (f)   On-premises advertising for any bed and breakfast facility
located in a residential district shall conform to those regulations regarding
home occupation signs.
         (g)   A minimum of 1 off-street parking space per guest room shall be
provided in addition to 2 parking spaces for the resident. Off-street parking
is to be screened from the surrounding residences.
         (h)   Any additional external lighting used to illuminate off-street
parking shall be concealed or screened and shall be directed away from other
residential properties and public rights-of-way.
         (i)   The conditional use permit shall be reviewed annually by the
City Council and shall not be transferable to another firm or person.
         (j)   A license shall be terminated upon occurrence of the following:
            1.   Non-compliance with the provisions of this division (C)(9);
            2.   Transfer of ownership of the property from the owner/operator;
or
            3.   The creation of a condition which adversely affects the
health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the city or its residents.
(Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following uses shall be accessory uses within the
R-1 Residential District:
      (1)   Private garages and carports;
      (2)   Tool houses and storage sheds;
      (3)   Private outdoor swimming pools and spas, either permanent or
temporary; and
      (4)   Parking of passenger cars, travel trailers, pleasure boats, and
motor homes/buses, provided that only 2 travel trailers, pleasure boats, or
motor homes, in any combination, may be stored outside a structure on the
property. The parking of vehicles shall be allowed only if they are parked in
such a manner so as not to cause danger by obscuring the view. Parking will not
be allowed on the boulevard portion of a public street right-of-way or when it
might block a public sidewalk, street, or alley. No living quarters shall be
maintained and no business or other activity shall be carried on in travel
trailers, boats, or motor homes/buses. Storage of a vehicle which is inoperable
for longer than 14 days, outside of an enclosed building, is not permitted.
(Am. Ord. passed 1-3-2005)
   (E)   Height regulations.
      (1)   No structure hereafter erected shall exceed 2-1/2 stories or 35
feet in height, except that church spires, belfries, domes which do not contain
usable space, and chimneys may be of any height which does not conflict with
air traffic requirements.
      (2)   For multiple-family dwellings, structures shall not exceed 3
stories or 45 feet in height.
   (F)   Front yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25
feet, except that in a block where 2 or more residences have been erected
facing the same street, no new building or portion thereof shall project beyond
a straight line drawn between the point closest to the street line of the
residence upon either side of the proposed structure. If there are residences
on only 1 side, then no new building or portion thereof shall project beyond
the average front yard of the 2 nearest residences.
      (2)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of 2 or more roads or
highways, §
150.03 shall determine which of the 2 or more sides abutting streets shall be
considered the front yard. No accessory buildings shall be allowed within the
required front yard.
(Am. Ord. passed 1-3-2005)
   (G)   Side yard regulations.
      (1)   Each lot shall have 2 side yards, one being not less than 10% of
the lot width and the other being no less than 15% of the lot width.
      (2)   Side yards shall not be required for accessory buildings erected
supplementary or incidental to the main building, less than 10 feet by 12 feet
in size, provided that no such building shall be erected in front of a line
drawn parallel to the front lot line and lying entirely to the rear of the
extreme back portion of the main structure. Also, accessory buildings on corner
lots shall not be erected closer to the street line than the minimum side yard
requirements hereunder for the main building on the lot.
   (H)   Rear yard regulations.
      (1)   Each lot shall have an unoccupied rear yard having a depth of not
less than 25% of the lot depth, except that accessory buildings such as non-
attached garages and structures used for storage of non-commercial property
shall be located no less than 10 feet from the property line and not less than
10 feet from an alley. Garages which are entered from an alley shall be placed
at least 30 feet from the center of the alley.
      (2)   For multiple-family dwellings, there shall be a rear yard of not
less than 25 feet or 25% of the lot depth, whichever is greater.
   (I)   Lot size regulations.
      (1)   Every lot on which a 1-family dwelling is erected shall contain an
area of not less than 9,000 square feet and shall not be less than an average
of 75 feet in width and 120 feet in depth.
      (2)   Every lot on which a 2-family dwelling is erected shall contain an
area of not less than 12,000 square feet and an average width of not less than
100 feet in width and an average depth of not less than 120 feet in depth.
      (3)   Every lot on which a multiple-family dwelling is erected shall
contain an area of not less than 12,000 square feet for the first 2 units plus
1,500 square feet for each additional dwelling unit.
      (4)   If a lot has less area, width, or depth than herein required and
was legally platted and was of record at the time of passage of this chapter,
that lot may be used for any of the uses permitted in this district.
   (J)   Maximum ground coverage. For multiple-family dwellings, not more than
35% of a lot or plot shall be occupied by buildings.
   (K)   Size regulation for garages. The total square footage of all non-
attached garages on a lot in this district shall not exceed 8.5% of total lot
area.
   (L)   Permit regulations. No permit for a multiple building structure may be
issued unless the permit application is accompanied by a site plan. The site
plan shall include topography, location of parking and loading spaces,
landscaping, screening, and other information pertinent to the development of
the site.
   (M)   General regulations. Additional regulations applicable to the R-
1 Residential District are set forth in §
150.11.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.07 R-2 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This district is established to provide for the development
of manufactured home parks, as well as establish requirements governing the
location and density of the development. This section shall not be applicable
to existing facilities or existing manufactured home parks, but shall have
application to all new manufactured home park developments which are hereafter
constructed. All improvements of the land, including buildings and all
appurtenances thereto, shall conform to all applicable laws, ordinances, and
regulations (including deed restrictions and covenants of the land). The
minimum standards established herein shall not be construed as lowering the
standards established by the local laws, ordinances, or regulations. Whenever
the local standards contain more stringent provisions than any of the minimum
standards contained herein, the more stringent standards shall govern. No
manufactured home shall be admitted to any park unless it can be demonstrated
that it meets the requirements of all state, county, and city codes governing
installation of plumbing, heating, and electrical systems.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Manufactured homes when placed in manufactured home parks as
defined in §
150.03; and
      (2)   Public open space.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Manufactured home parks as defined in §
150.03;
      (2)   Public and private schools having a regular course of study
accredited by the State Department of Education;
      (3)   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues, convents, seminaries,
monasteries, and nunneries; and
      (4)   Publicly owned buildings or structures, utility building, telephone
exchange, transformer stations and substations, but not including storage yards
or similar facilities.
   (D)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Uses incidental or accessory to the operation of a manufactured
home park, provided the uses are only for the benefit and convenience of the
occupants of the manufactured home park and approved by the Planning
Commission. The uses shall not occupy more than 10% of area of the park;
      (2)   Privately owned recreation facilities such as swimming pools or
tennis courts for the use of residents;
      (3)   Garages, private; and
      (4)   Tool houses and sheds or similar buildings for the storage of
domestic supplies.
   (E)   Required lot area, lot density, and lot setback requirements.
      (1)   The minimum site sizes for each manufactured home shall be 4,000
square feet.
      (2)   There shall be an open space of at least 10 feet between the sides
of adjacent manufactured homes including their attachments.
      (3)   There shall be a minimum setback of 10 feet from all public streets
or alleys.
      (4)   No manufactured home shall be parked closer than 10 feet to the
side lot lines of a manufactured home park if the abutting property is improved
property.
      (5)   Other requirements governing manufactured home parks are outlined
in the regulations of the Minnesota State Board of Health.
   (F)   General regulations. Additional requirements applicable to the R-
2 Mobile Home Park District are set forth in §
150.11.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.08 B-1 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The B-1 Highway Business District is designed and intended to
promote the development of uses which require large concentrations of
automobile traffic. The district is also designed to accommodate those
commercial activities which require larger amounts of land and which may be
incompatible with the predominantly retail uses permitted in other business
districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted within the B-
1 Highway Business District:
      (1)   Agriculture and agri-related uses;
      (2)   Automobile, motorcycle, truck and farm implement/equipment dealers,
new and used vehicle lots, boat, trailer, and manufactured home display lots
and structures;
      (3)   Automobile service stations (gas stations) including convenience
stores selling gas, groceries, food, and the like and repair shops including
body shops;
      (4)   Bowling alleys;
      (5)   Car washes;
      (6)   Clinics;
      (7)   Community or convention centers;
      (8)   Dance halls;
      (9)   Dry cleaning establishments;
      (10)   Drive-in retail stores and service uses;
      (11)   Livestock feed sales;
      (12)   Frozen food lockers;
      (13)   Grocery, fruit, vegetable, and meat stores;
      (14)   Greenhouses, nurseries, and garden stores;
      (15)   Ice vending station;
      (16)   Laundromats;
      (17)   Laboratories, medical and dental;
      (18)   Lumber yards and building materials;
      (19)   Marine and boat sales and servicing establishments;
      (20)   Miniature golf courses;
      (21)   Mortuaries and funeral homes;
      (22)   Motels, hotels, and camping facilities;
      (23)   Municipal service and utility buildings to include water treatment
plants, transformers and relay stations, fire stations, highway department
vehicle and equipment garages and storage;
      (24)   Outdoor advertising devices as regulated under sign regulations;
      (25)   Professional and business offices;
      (26)   Restaurants and cafes, including drive-in type restaurants;
      (27)   Sign contractor;
      (28)   Skating rinks;
      (29)   Taverns;
      (30)   Veterinarians, including observations kennels for households pets,
provided, however, all the kennels are contained within completely enclosed
structures;
      (31)   Warehousing;
      (32)   Wholesaling;
      (33)   Cartage and express facilities; and
      (34)   Adult uses, accessory.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be conditional uses within
the B-1 Highway Business District:
      (1)   Blacksmith shop;
      (2)   Bulk fuel sales and storage facilities (but not including
facilities associated with the collection, storage, or processing of waste,
used, or recyclable petroleum products);
      (3)   Fertilizer and chemical sales and storage;
      (4)   Grain elevators; and
      (5)   Other business activities of the same general character as listed
in division (B) above.
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following uses shall be accessory uses permitted
within the B-1 Highway Business District:
      (1)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the uses permitted in
divisions (B) and (C) above; and
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated in §
150.12.
   (E)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed 45 feet in height.
   (F)   Front yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard setback of not less than 65 feet from
the centerline of all state and county highways and all other public rights-of-
way.
      (2)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of 2 or more roads or
highways, there shall be a front yard setback on each road or highway side of
each corner lot. No accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard
setback line of either road.
   (G)   Side yard regulations. There shall be a side yard having a width of
not less than 15 feet on each side of a building, except that no building shall
be located within 50 feet of any side lot line abutting a lot located in a
residential district and the side yard shall contain a solid fence or
vegetative screening.
   (H)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 15 feet, except no building shall be located within 50 feet of
any rear lot line abutting a lot in a residential district and shall contain a
solid fence or vegetative screening. The minimum rear yard may not be used for
off-street parking or loading space when abutting any residential district.
   (I)   Lot width. Every lot or tract shall have a width of not less than 100
feet abutting a public right-of-way.
   (J)   Lot area regulations. Every lot or plot of land shall contain an area
of not less than 10,000 square feet.
   (K)   Lot coverage regulations. Not more than 50% of the lot or plot of land
shall be occupied by buildings.
   (L)   General regulations. Additional requirements applicable to the B-
1 Highway Business District are set forth in §
150.11.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995; Am. Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.09 B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The B-2 General Business District is intended to serve the
community by providing a district for high density retail sales, business and
personal services, business and professional offices, and for specialized
businesses dependent upon a high volume of pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted within the B-
2 General Business District:
      (1)   Antique, jewelry, gift, novelty, or souvenir stores;
      (2)   Apparel and accessory stores;
      (3)   Appliance stores (sales and service), hardware stores, paint and
wallpaper stores, sewing machine sales and service, bicycle sales and service;
      (4)   Art and school supply, book and stationery stores;
      (5)   Art galleries;
      (6)   Art, photographic, recording, music and dance studios and schools;
      (7)   Bakeries, retail, employing not more than 4 persons in the baking
process;
      (8)   Banks, savings and loan associations, and loan and finance
companies, including drive-in facilities;
      (9)   Bars, including lounges, night clubs, on-sale liquor
establishments;
      (10)   Barber and beauty shops;
      (11)   Billboards and signs (as regulated by the sign regulations);
      (12)   Business, commercial, or trade schools;
      (13)   Business machines stores;
      (14)   Camera and photographic supply stores, hobby and toy stores,
sporting goods stores, music and musical instrument stores;
      (15)   Cabinet, carpenter, upholstering, or furniture repair shops
employing not more than 4 persons in the construction or repair process;
      (16)   Clinics, dental or medical;
      (17)   Dairy stores;
      (18)   Department stores;
      (19)   Dressmaking, seamstress, tailor;
      (20)   Drugstores;
      (21)   Farm equipment sales and service;
      (22)   Floral sales;
      (23)   Furniture stores, home and office furnishings, carpet and rug
stores;
      (24)   Garden and lawn equipment sales and service stores;
(Am. Ord. passed 9-4-2001)
      (25)   Gas stations, vehicle repair shops, including tire and battery
stores, and body shops;
(Am. Ord. passed 9-4-2001)
      (26)   Government or municipal buildings including libraries;
      (27)   Grocery stores, fruit, vegetable, floral, candy, ice cream, soft
drink or confectionary stores, excluding drive-in type service;
      (28)   Health equipment stores, health clubs, gyms;
      (29)   Interior decorators;
      (30)   Laboratories, dental or medical;
      (31)   Laundromats and dry cleaning collection stations;
      (32)   Liquor stores (off-sale);
      (33)   Locksmiths;
      (34)   Luggage stores and leather goods;
      (35)   Meat markets and frozen food lockers;
      (36)   Medical supply stores;
      (37)   Mortuaries or funeral homes;
      (38)   Motels, hotels, or boarding houses;
      (39)   Newspaper offices, printing and publishing shops;
      (40)   Offices of any type including employment agencies;
      (41)   Opticians and optical goods;
      (42)   Parks;
      (43)   Parking lots and garages;
      (44)   Photographic studios or picture processing;
      (45)   Plumbing, heating, and air conditioning shops and showrooms
(supplies and sales);
      (46)   Post offices;
      (47)   Public utility service stores;
      (48)   Radio or television broadcasting or transmitting stations or
studios;
      (49)   Radio and television sales and service;
      (50)   Repair, rental, and servicing of any article the sale of which is
permitted in this district;
      (51)   Restaurants, cafes, delicatessens, or taverns, excluding drive-in
type of service;
      (52)   Shoe sales and repair shops;
      (53)   Telephone exchanges;
      (54)   Theaters, not including drive-in theaters;
      (55)   Travel bureaus or agencies;
      (56)   Variety stores;
      (57)   Vending machines for ice, milk, and pop sales;
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
      (58)   Sales and service of new and used cars, trucks, all-terrain
vehicles (ATVs), motorcycles, personal watercraft, and snowmobiles; and
(Ord. passed 9-4-2001)
      (59)   Adult uses, accessory.
(Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses may be allowed in the
B-2 General Business District:
      (1)   Apartment buildings from 1 to 4 units each;
      (2)   Armories;
      (3)   Bowling alleys;
      (4)   Bus terminals;
      (5)   Dance halls;
      (6)   Electronic and electrical assembly establishments, electric service
shops;
      (7)   Mini-storage facilities;
      (8)   Skating areas;
      (9)   First and second floor apartments related to commercial structures;
      (10)   Any other business activities of the same general character as
listed in division (B) above; and
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
      (11)   The mixing and blending of micro and macro feed supplements for
animal nutrition purposes.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2000)
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following shall be accessory uses within the B-
2 General Business District: accessory uses incidental to and located on the
same lot as the uses permitted in divisions (B) and (C) above. This includes
display/sales lots for items sold in this district such as farm equipment and
new and used cars and trucks.
(Am. Ord. passed 1-3-2005)
   (E)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed 45 feet in height.
   (F)   Front yard regulations. No front yard setback shall be required.
   (G)   Side yard regulations. No side yard shall be required, except that
where a building abuts upon a lot in any of the classes of residential
districts, then a 20-foot side yard setback shall be required.
   (H)   Rear yard regulations. No rear yard shall be required, except where a
building abuts upon a lot in any of the classes of residential districts, then
a 20-foot rear yard setback shall be required.
   (I)   Lot width. A minimum lot width of 22 feet shall be required.
   (J)   Lot depth. A lot depth of 100 feet shall be required.
   (K)   General regulations. Additional requirements applicable to the B-
2 General Business District are set forth in §
150.11.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.10 I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The I-1 Industrial District is intended to encourage
industrial development in the appropriate areas of the city. These uses shall
maintain a high level of performance and appearance, including open spaces and
landscaping and encourage development that is compatible with surrounding
abutting districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted within the I-
1 Industrial District:
      (1)   Aircraft rental, sales, servicing, and related activities;
      (2)   Antennae for radio, television, and broadcasting studios and
facilities;
      (3)   Art equipment supplies - manufacture;
      (4)   Bags, boxes, and paper containers - manufacturing and storage;
      (5)   Bakery products - wholesale;
      (6)   Bottling establishments;
      (7)   Blank books, looseleaf binders - fabrication and assembly;
      (8)   Books and binding;
      (9)   Building materials sales and storage - lumber yards;
      (10)   Cabinet and woodworking establishments;
      (11)   Cartage and express facilities;
      (12)   Clothing manufacture;
      (13)   Camera and photographic manufacturing;
      (14)   Cold storage plants, commercial printing, publishing, engraving
and reproduction firms;
      (15)   Commercial printing, publishing, and reproduction firms;
      (16)   Confectionery and related products - manufacture and packaging;
      (17)   Dental instruments and supplies;
      (18)   Dry cleaning and dying establishments;
      (19)   Electric lighting and wiring equipment - manufacture;
      (20)   Electric measuring and testing equipment - manufacture;
      (21)   Electronic measuring and testing equipment - manufacture;
      (22)   Electrical products and appliances - manufacture and assembly;
      (23)   Farm implement sales and storage;
      (24)   Footwear - manufacture and fabrication;
      (25)   Freight terminal;
      (26)   Frozen food lockers;
      (27)   Hand and edge tools (except machine tools) - manufacture and
assembly;
      (28)   Hardware warehousing and distribution operations;
      (29)   Highway maintenance shops and yards;
      (30)   Ice plants and ice cream plants;
      (31)   Jewelry manufacture;
      (32)   Laboratory instruments and associated equipment, scientific and
testing;
      (33)   Laundries, large scale;
      (34)   Luggage, handbags, and similar items - manufacture and assembly;
      (35)   Mail order houses;
      (36)   Medical and surgical instruments and supplies;
      (37)   Office buildings directly related to any of the uses permitted in
this district;
      (38)   Office furniture and supplies - manufacture and assembly;
      (39)   Optical instruments and lenses - manufacture and assembly;
      (40)   Patterns - design and manufacture;
      (41)   Pottery shops;
      (42)   Precision instruments;
      (43)   Plastic extrusion and molding and fixture;
      (44)   Plumbing fixtures and equipment - wholesale/retail;
      (45)   Radio and television - assembly and parts fabrication;
      (46)   Signs and billboards (as regulated in §
150.13);
      (47)   Sports equipment - manufacture and assembly;
      (48)   Scientific and research instruments and equipment - manufacture
and assembly;
      (49)   Telephone and telegraph apparatus - manufacture and assembly;
      (50)   Temperature controls - fabrication and assembly;
      (51)   Trade schools;
      (52)   Welding supply;
      (53)   Wholesale business facilities;
      (54)   Warehousing facilities;
      (55)   Other uses clearly similar to uses permitted in this district; and
      (56)   Adult use, accessory.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the I-
1 Industrial District:
      (1)   Automotive, truck, and other internal combustion engine equipment
repair;
      (2)   Bulk fuel sales and storage facilities (but not including
facilities associated with the collection, storage or processing of waste,
used, or recyclable petroleum products);
      (3)   Contractors offices, shops and yards for plumbing, heating,
glazing, painting, roofing, ventilating, air conditioning, masonry, electric
and refrigeration;
      (4)   Electrical substations;
      (5)   Fertilizer and chemical sales and storage;
      (6)   Grain elevators;
      (7)   Monument works;
      (8)   Planned industrial parks;
      (9)   Any manufacturing, production, processing, cleaning, storage,
servicing, repair and testing of materials, goods or products similar to those
listed in division (B) above which conform with the performance standards set
forth for this district; and
      (10)   Adult use, principal.
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following uses shall be accessory uses within the
I-1 Industrial District:
      (1)   All uses customarily incidental to the uses permitted in divisions
(B) and (C) above; and
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated in §
150.12.
   (E)   Height regulations. No structure shall exceed 4 stories or 45 feet in
height, except that cooling towers, elevator penthouses, domes which do not
contain usable space, water towers, and smoke stacks and storage bins may be of
any height which does not conflict with airport requirements.
   (F)   Front yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard setback of not less than 130 feet from
the center line of all federal, state, county, and county-state aid highways,
except for divided highways which will require 100 feet from the highway right-
of-way line.
      (2)   There shall be a front yard setback of not less than 65 feet from
the center line of all other public rights-of-way or private roads.
      (3)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of 2 or more roads or
highways, there shall be a front yard setback from each road or highway side of
each corner lot. No accessory buildings shall be allowed within the required
front yard.
   (G)   Side yard regulations. There shall be a side yard on each side of a
building, each yard having a width of not less than 15 feet, except where a
district abuts a residential district, the side yard shall have a width of not
less than 50 feet and shall contain a solid fence or a vegetative screening.
   (H)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 15 feet, except where the district abuts a residential district,
there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than 50 feet, and shall
contain a solid fence or a vegetative screening.
   (I)   Lot area regulations. Every individual lot, site, or tract shall have
an area of not less than 1 acre.
   (J)   Lot coverage regulations. Not more than 40% of the total area of a lot
shall be covered by buildings.
   (K)   General regulations. Additional requirements applicable to the I-
1 Industrial District are set forth in §
150.11.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995; Am. Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.11 GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR ALL PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to guide development so as to
create a compatible relationship of land uses by maintaining certain standards.
Within the various districts, the permitted uses, conditional uses, and
accessory uses shall conform to these standards. Standards listed herein shall
be construed as minimum standards and the City Council may require adherence to
approved or suggested State of Minnesota standards.
   (B)   Compliance. In order to ensure compliance with the performance
standards set forth herein, the Planning Commission may require the owner or
operator of any facility to have made the investigations and tests as may be
required to show adherence to the performance standards. The investigation and
tests as are required to be made shall be carried out by an independent testing
organization as may be selected by the city, at the applicant’s expense.
   (C)   Landscaping. All required yards shall either be landscaped or be left
in a natural state. Any area left in a natural state shall be property
maintained in a sightly and well-kept condition. Businesses in the highway
business district and industrial district adjoining any residential structures
shall be landscaped with either a fence or buffer planting screens at least 5
feet in height. Plans of the screens shall be submitted for approval as a part
of the site plan and installed prior to the commencement of operation.
   (D)   Noise. Noise shall be measured on any property line of the tract on
which the operation is located. Noise shall be muffled so as not to become
objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency, shrillness or intensity,
except for noise from agricultural sources in the A-1 Agriculture District
generated by agricultural use shall be exempt.
   (E)   Odors. Any use established, enlarged, or remodeled shall be so
operated as to prevent the emission of odorous matter of the quantity as to be
readily detectable at any point beyond the lot line of the site on which the
use is located. Detailed plans for the prevention of odors crossing property
lines may be required before the issuance of a zoning permit, except odors from
agricultural sources.
   (F)   Glare. Glare, whether direct or reflected, such as from floodlights or
high temperature processes, and as differentiated from general illumination,
shall be directed at or illuminate adjacent properties.
   (G)   Exterior lighting. Any lights used for exterior illumination shall
direct light away from adjoining properties.
   (H)   Vibration. Any use creating periodic earth-shaking vibrations shall be
prohibited if the vibrations are perceptible beyond the lot line of the site on
which the use is located. The standard shall not apply to vibrations created
during the process of construction.
   (I)   Smoke and particle matter. Any use established, enlarged, or remodeled
after the effective date of this chapter shall be so operated to meet the
minimum requirements of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency for the emission
of smoke or other particulate matter.
   (J)   Dust. Solid or liquid particles shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations exceeding standards set forth by the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency, Department of Health, or other federal or state agency.
   (K)   Toxic or noxious matter. Any use established shall be so operated as
not to discharge across the boundaries of the lot or through percolation into
the subsoil beyond the boundaries of the lot wherein the use is located, toxic
or noxious matter in the concentration as to be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, safety, comfort, or welfare, or cause injury or damage to
property or business.
   (L)   Height regulations.
      (1)   Where the average slope of a lot is greater than 1-foot rise or
fall in 7 feet of horizontal distance from the established street elevation at
the property line, 1 story in addition to the number permitted in the district
in which the lot is situated shall be permitted on the downhill side of any
building.
      (2)   Height limitations set forth elsewhere in this chapter may be
increased by 100% when applied to the following:
         (a)   Monuments;
         (b)   Flag poles;
         (c)   Cooling towers;
         (d)   Elevator penthouses; and/or
         (e)   Windmills.
      (3)   Height limitations set forth elsewhere in this chapter may be
increased with no limitation when applied to the following, provided a
conditional use permit is issued to increase height:
         (a)   Church spires, belfries, or domes which do not contain usable
space;
         (b)   Water towers;
         (c)   Chimneys or smokestacks;
         (d)   Radio or television transmitting towers;
         (e)   Essential service structures; and/or
         (f)   Grain elevators.
   (M)   Yard regulations. Measurements shall be taken from the nearest point
of the wall of a building to the lot line in question, subject to the following
qualifications.
      (1)   Cornices, canopies, or eaves may extend into the required front
yard a distance not exceeding 4 feet, 6 inches.
      (2)   Fire escapes may extend into the required front yard a distance not
exceeding 4 feet, 6 inches.
      (3)   A landing place or uncovered porch may extend into the required
front yard to a distance not exceeding 6 feet, if the landing place or porch
has its floor no higher than the entrance floor of the building. An open
railing no higher than 3 feet may be placed around the place.
      (4)   The above enumerated architectural features may also extend into
any side or rear yard to the same extent, except that no porch, terrace, or
outside stairway shall project into the required side yard distance, except on
existing lots that are 50 feet or less in width, these allowable architectural
features may project into the required side yard a distance of 2 feet.
      (5)   A wall, fence, or hedge may occupy part of the required front,
side, or rear yard.
      (6)   The required front yard of a corner lot shall not contain any wall,
fence, or other structure, tree, shrub, or other growth which may cause danger
to traffic on a road or public road by obscuring the view.
   (N)   Area regulations.
      (1)   No lot shall be so reduced that the area of the lot or dimensions
of the open spaces shall be smaller than herein prescribed.
      (2)   No dwelling shall hereafter be erected or altered unless there is
direct access to it from a street or highway through an open space on the same
lot. No building shall hereafter be erected or altered so as to close the
present means of access to an existing dwelling or so as to diminish this means
to a width less than the width of the existing dwelling.
   (O)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   In case an accessory building is attached to the main building, it
shall be made structurally a part of the main building and shall comply in all
respects with the requirements of this chapter applicable to the main building.
An accessory building, unless attached to and made a part of the main building,
shall not be closer than 5 feet to the main building, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
      (2)   A detached accessory building shall not be located in any required
front yard.
      (3)   A garage or building larger than 10 feet by 12 feet shall be
considered a dwelling for purposes of side and rear yard regulations and
requirements.
      (4)   A detached accessory building not over 1 story and not exceeding 16
feet in height, from the grade at the front wall of the building to the highest
point of the roof, shall occupy not more than 30% of the area of any rear yard,
providing further that no detached accessory building shall be located within
10 feet of any side lot line, except as noted in the residential district.
      (5)   In districts where filling stations are allowed, pumps and pump
islands may be located within a required yard provided they are not less than
15 feet from any street right-of-way lines.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
   (P)   Buildings to be moved. Any building or structure which has been wholly
or partially erected on any premises, located either within or outside of the
city shall not be moved to and be placed upon any other premises in this city
until an authorization to use the building or structure shall have been secured
and a zoning permit obtained. In the event circumstances do not permit the
owner to secure prior approval and permits, the owner shall immediately notify
the Administrative Clerk/Treasurer that the building is being moved. The owner
must secure a permit at the next meeting of the Planning Commission for any
such building which has been moved. Any such building or structure shall
conform to all the provisions of this chapter, in the same manner as a new
building or structure.
   (Q)   Traffic visibility. No fence, wall structure, planting, or obstruction
shall be erected, established, or maintained on any corner lot which will
obstruct the view of a driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection. An
object on the lot lines adjacent to the street within the required front yard
and not exceeding 36 inches in height, as measured from the center line
elevation of the street, shall not be considered as an obstruction to vision.
   (R)   Fences.
      (1)   All boundary line fences shall be entirely located upon the private
property of the persons, firm, or corporation constructing, or causing the
construction of the fence. All fences shall be set back at least 1 foot from
all property division lines and those fences exceeding 3 feet in height shall
maintain a 3-foot setback from a lot line unless:
         (a)   Mutual agreement can be demonstrated with abutting property
owners; and
         (b)   A maintenance easement agreement can be drafted and agreed to by
both affected parties; or
         (c)   Mutual ownership and responsibility agreements can be drafted
and demonstrated to the City Council.
      (2)   Fences in the agricultural and residential districts shall not
exceed 6 feet in height in the side and rear yards and shall not exceed 3 feet
in height in the front yard.
      (3)   Fences in the business and industry district shall not exceed 6
feet in height except security fences, which shall not exceed 8 feet in height
including barbed wire toppings.
      (4)   No fences shall be constructed within utility easements.
      (5)   All boundary line fences shall be constructed of decorative wood,
decorative metal, decorative vinyl, or PVC or chain link fencing. Boundary line
fences shall contain an adequate number of upright supports properly installed
and the fence will be securely fastened to the supports to ensure that the
fence shall remain in an upright position and not sag. Any type of fencing
erected shall not be attached to trees. Snow fencing, barbed wire (unless used
on the top of a fence otherwise constructed of chain link material and then
only on a fence erected in a business or industrial district), woven wire,
electric fence and other similar types of fencing are not permitted to be used
as boundary line fences. Property owners shall maintain both sides of fences
located on their property in reasonable repair and shall not be allow them to
become and/or remain in a condition of disrepair or danger, or constitute a
public or private nuisance. Fences shall be constructed with a finished side
facing outward.
      (6)   Temporary fencing that meets a limited time use such as a seasonal
fence to protect gardens from wandering animals, for crowd control or around a
construction or demolition area or where a possibly hazardous condition may
occur is permitted; however, these types of fences must be taken down as soon
as the use is completed.
      (7)   Fencing to control the blowing of snow is also permitted; however,
the fencing may only be erected between the dates of November 1 and April 1, or
as soon after that date as the snow melts sufficiently to allow the fence to be
taken down. Snow fencing shall meet the same height and setback requirements as
those of boundary line fences.
      (8)   Hedges consisting of shrubs and other plantings in the front yard
shall be no higher than 3 feet. On corner lots, no hedge or fence shall be
erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as would impede
vision, obscure the view, or cause danger to traffic on a street, alley, or
public road. All hedges shall be planted to meet the setback requirements from
property lines that are required of fences when the hedges are mature. Hedges
shall be maintained by the property owner upon which they are located so they
do not constitute a nuisance to neighboring property owners or a danger to
public health safety or welfare.
(Am. Ord. passed 12-7-1998)
   (S)   Lot survey requirements. In the cases where fences are being erected
on property lines or structures are being enlarged within questionable
distances of the applicable setbacks in districts, the Amboy Planning
Commission will require the applicant (at the applicant’s expense) to have the
lot surveyed and staked in order to insure compliance with those regulations
established by the city.
   (T)   Limits on a request for a variance, conditional use permit, or
amendment. A request for a variance, conditional use, or amendment which has
been denied may not be requested again until a period of 6 months has passed
unless the applicant can show to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission or
Board of Adjustment that the conditions which were present under the earlier
request filed have changed or that the request is substantially different.
   (U)   Home occupations. See §
150.03.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
   (V)   Residential occupancy. All structures used for residential occupancy,
with the exception of manufactured homes in a manufactured home park district,
shall have a minimum width of 24 feet on its narrowest dimension and shall be
affixed to a permanent foundation constructed of concrete block, poured
concrete, or wood which follows the perimeter of the ground level of the home
and which extends below the frost line. All structures used for residential
occupancy in a manufactured home park shall also be affixed to a permanent
foundation which follows State of Minnesota guidelines for placement of
manufactured homes and which may be constructed of concrete block, poured
concrete walls or piers, or wood extending below the frost line. All structures
used for residential occupancy in any district shall be anchored to resist
movement.
(Am. Ord. passed 12-7-1998)
   (W)   Regulations on screening, landscaping, lighting, storage, and outdoor
displays.
      (1)   Screening. All required screening devices shall be designed so that
they are architecturally harmonious with the principal structures on the site
and they shall be properly maintained so as not to become unsightly, hazardous,
or less opaque than when originally constructed.
      (2)   Landscaping. All exposed ground areas surrounding or within a
principal or accessory use including boulevards, which are not devoted to
drives, sidewalks, patios, or other the uses shall be landscaped with grass,
shrubs, trees, or other ornamental landscaped materials. All landscaped areas
shall be kept neat, clean, and uncluttered. No landscaped area shall be used
for the parking of vehicles or the storage or display of materials, supplies,
or merchandise.
      (3)   Lighting. Lighting shall be directed away from public rights-of-way
and residential districts. Glare, whether direct or reflected, as
differentiated from general illumination, shall not be visible from beyond the
limits of the immediate site from which it originates.
      (4)   Storage displays. All materials, supplies, merchandise, or other
similar matter not on display for a direct sale, rental, or lease to the
ultimate consumer or user shall be stored within a completely enclosed building
within the highway commercial district, or within the confines of a 100% opaque
wall or fence not less than 5 feet high. Merchandise which is offered for sale
as described above may be displayed beyond the confines of a building in the
highway commercial district, but the area occupied by the outdoor display shall
not constitute a greater number of square feet than 10% of the ground floor
area of the building housing the principal use, unless the merchandise is of a
type customarily displayed outdoors such as garden supplies. No storage of any
type shall be permitted within the 1/2 of the required front or side street
setback nearest the streets.
   (X)   Erection and improvement of buildings.
      (1)   Chimneys. In every building hereafter erected, altered, or repaired
within the City of Amboy, all chimneys shall be constructed of brick or other
incombustible material.
      (2)   Studding, joists, and rafters. All shall be of the size and quality
as to safely sustain the loads to be carried.
      (3)   Electric wiring. In every building, all electric wiring apparatus
or appliances for furnishing light, heat, or power shall be in strict
conformity with the statutes of the State of Minnesota, the rules and
regulations issued by the Railroad and Warehouse Commission, the State Fire
Marshal, and the Industrial Commission of Minnesota and in conformity with
approved methods of construction for safety to life and property.
      (4)   Smoke detector. As per Minnesota State Electrical Code, all new
residential buildings must have a smoke detector.
      (5)   Water and sewer. The design and construction of water supply
facilities and treatment of all sewage and waste shall comply with the city,
county, and state health standards and requirements. Owner must pay all costs
of connecting water and sewer to the new structure from the property line. When
possible, water and sewer connections will be in the alley, rather than in the
street. Owner must pay a water and sewer service connection fee before zoning
permit is issued. Owner must pump water from basement onto property, not down
the sanitary sewer. See Title V for further regulations regarding storm water
drainage.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995; Am. Ord. passed 1-3-2005)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.12 PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Scope of regulations. All parking hereafter constructed or maintained
shall conform to the provisions of this section and any other ordinance or
regulation of the city. For any and all uses or structures not specifically
provided for in this section, the Planning Commission shall determine proper
parking or loading requirements as appropriate.
   (B)   Size reduction of parking lot and loading space. Future parking and
loading facilities and the facilities existing at the effective date of this
chapter shall not be reduced below the minimum size requirements established in
this chapter.
   (C)   Parking lot and loading area use restriction. Parking lot and loading
facilities required by this chapter for a given building or use shall not be
used for storage of goods or for storage of vehicles that are inoperable as
defined by Minnesota Statutes.
   (D)   Parking and storage of vehicles.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (D), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, as defined in this division
(D)(1) which has been voluntarily surrendered by its owner to the City of Amboy
or to a person duly licensed under M.S. § 168B.10, as it may be amended from
time to time, or which has remained for more than 48 hours in a condition
described by one of the following:
            1.   On public property in violation of the city’s ordinances or
Minnesota Statutes; or
            2.   On private property without consent of the person in control
of the property.
         JUNKED and ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES – EXEMPTIONS. For the purposes of
this section, the following shall not be considered junked or abandoned motor
vehicles:
            1.   A classic or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. § 168.10, as it
may be amended from time to time; provided that it is kept secure and as long
as it has substantial potential further use consistent with its usual
functions;
            2.   A vehicle kept inside an enclosed garage or storage building;
and/or
            3.   Vehicles with license plates that have expired less than 1
year prior to the date of inspection that are on the premises of a motor
vehicle and parts dealer, automobile repair garage, or body shop that is
licensed in accordance with Minnesota Statutes or with local ordinances and
zoning regulations and when the parking or storing of vehicles is necessary to
the operation of the business or commercial enterprise.
         JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle as defined by above with
license plates which have an expiration date more than 70 days prior to the
date of inspection or the condition of which is wrecked, dismantled, partially
dismantled, inoperative, or discarded.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle as defined by M.S. § 169.01, as it
may be amended from time to time, including, but not limited to, automobiles,
buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, ATVs (all-terrain vehicles),
trucks, tractors, go-carts, campers, and trailers.
         PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
         PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is privately
owned and which is not public property as defined in this section.
         PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley, or highway which shall include the
entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for
the purpose of vehicular travel, and also means any other publicly owned
property or facility.
      (2)   Parking and storage of abandoned, junked, dismantled, and
inoperative vehicles prohibited.
         (a)   Parking and storage on public property. No person shall park,
store, or leave, or permit the parking, storage, or leaving of any abandoned
vehicles or any vehicle which is in a wrecked, junked, partially dismantled, or
inoperative condition upon any public property within the City of Amboy for a
period in excess of the time allowed in
Chapter 70.
         (b)   Parking and storage on private real property. No person owning,
in charge of, or in control of any real property within the city, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junked or partially dismantled motor vehicle
of any kind to remain stored in the open, outside of an enclosed building,
longer than 14 days.
(Am. Ord. passed 1-3-2005)
      (3)   Notice to remove. Whenever it comes to the attention of city
authorities that any person has an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative,
junked, or partially dismantled motor vehicle on their real property, a notice
in writing shall be served by U.S. mail upon the person requesting the removal
of the motor vehicle within 14 days.
      (4)   Responsibility for removal. Within 14 days of the mailing of the
notice, the owner of the abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junked,
or partially dismantled motor vehicle and the owner or occupant of the private
property on which the same is located, either or all of them, shall be
responsible for its removal.
      (5)   Notice procedure. The city authorities shall give notice of removal
to the owner or occupant of the private property where it is located. It shall
constitute sufficient notice when a copy of the same is sent by certified mail
to the owner or occupant of the private property at his last known address. The
notice shall contain the demand for removal within 14 days after the mailing of
the notice and the notice shall advise that failure to comply with the notice
to remove shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. passed 8-6-2001)
   (E)   Parking of commercial vehicles or equipment. No commercial vehicles,
trailers, or equipment shall be parked, stored, or otherwise contained in a
residential district unless in a completely enclosed structure or unless they
are being used in conjunction with a legitimate service being rendered for the
benefit of the residential premises.
   (F)   Location of parking and loading facilities.
      (1)   Required on-site parking space should be provided on the same lot
as the principal building or use. Where the space cannot be reasonably provided
on the same lot with the principal use, the City Council, with the approval of
the City Planning Commission, may permit the space to be located on other off-
street property if the space is within 300 feet of the permitted use, measured
along lines of public access, unless specifically waived by the City Council or
the parking spaces may be provided as described below in division (G).
      (2)   On-site parking and loading facilities shall not be subject to the
front yard, side yard, and rear yard regulations for the district in which the
parking is located except that:
         (a)   In a business district, no parking or loading space shall be
located within 10 feet of any property line that abuts a road, highway right-
of-way, or any residence district; and
         (b)   In an industrial district, no parking or loading space shall be
located within 20 feet of any property line that abuts a highway right-of-way
line or any residence district.
   (G)   Combined parking facilities. Combined or joint parking facilities may
be provided for 1 or more buildings or uses in business districts and industry
districts provided that the total number of spaces shall equal the sum of the
requirements for each building or use.
   (H)   General parking lot and loading area construction requirements.
      (1)   Generally. Off-street parking and loading areas for each building
or use shall be of sufficient size to provide parking or loading and unloading
space for owners, patrons, customers, suppliers, visitors, and employees.
      (2)   Site plan. All plans requiring parking spaces or loading facilities
submitted for a zoning permit shall include a site plan. This site plan shall
be considered as part of the zoning permit and the zoning permit will not be
issued until all the following items are shown on the site plan:
         (a)   Zoning, setbacks, and statement of use;
         (b)   North point and scale;
         (c)   All adjacent rights-of-way;
         (d)   Entire ownership of lot or parcel being developed;
         (e)   Completely dimensioned parking layouts;
         (f)   All parking spaces clearly marked; and
         (g)   Owner’s name and current address.
      (3)   Driveway or curb cuts. No driveway or curb cuts in any district
shall exceed 35 feet in width. Also, the number and width of driveways or curb
cuts shall be so located as to minimize traffic congestion and abnormal traffic
hazards.
      (4)   Access. Parking lot and loading areas shall have proper access from
a public right-of-way. Vehicular access to business or industrial uses across
property in any residential district is prohibited.
      (5)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking or
loading areas shall be directed away from residential properties and public
rights-of-way. They shall also be positioned in such a way as not to create a
nuisance.
      (6)   Necessary conditions. The Planning Commission may require any other
conditions as may be deemed necessary to protect the character, value, or
usefulness of the district.
   (I)   Parking lots in residential district. If, in the best interest of the
community, the Planning Commission may permit the use of land in a residential
district for a parking lot, provided the land abuts or is across the street
from a district other than a residential district and:
      (1)   The lot is used only for the parking of passenger vehicles of
employees, customers, or guests of the person or firm controlling and operating
the lot;
      (2)   There shall be no charge for parking on the lot;
      (3)   The lot shall not be used for sales, repair work, or servicing of
any kind;
      (4)   Entries and exits to or from the lot shall be located in such a way
as to do no harm to the residential district;
      (5)   There shall be no advertising signs or materials located on the
lot; and/or
      (6)   All parking shall be kept behind the building setback line by a
barrier unless otherwise specifically authorized by the Planning Commission.
   (J)   Parking lot and loading area maintenance. The owner of the parking lot
or loading area is responsible for the maintenance of those facilities. He or
she shall maintain the parking and loading areas, access drives, and yard areas
in a neat and adequate manner.
   (K)   Computing parking space requirements. In computing the number of
parking spaces required in a given parking lot, the following rules shall
govern:
      (1)   Floor space shall mean the gross floor area of the specified use;
      (2)   Where fractional space results, the parking spaces required shall
be construed to be the nearest whole number; and
      (3)   The parking space requirements for a use not specifically mentioned
herein shall be the same as required for a use of a similar nature, as
determined by the Planning Commission.
   (L)   Minimum parking space size requirement. Regular parking spaces shall
be 19 feet in length and 9 feet in width. The number and size of handicapped
parking spaces that must be provided in off-street parking lots shall conform
to the state and federal statutes pertaining to this issue.
   (M)   Minimum parking lot size. Each parking lot shall contain a minimum
area of not less than 300 square feet, including access drives, a width of not
less than 9 feet and a depth of not less than 20 feet.
   (N)   Required number of on-site parking spaces. The minimum number of
required on-site parking spaces for various uses shall be as follows:
      (1)   One- and 2-family dwellings - 2 parking spaces per family. A garage
shall be counted towards fulfilling this requirement;
      (2)   Multiple-family - 2 spaces for each apartment, except housing for
the elderly projects, which shall provide 3/10 parking space for each dwelling
unit;
      (3)   Lodging, rooming and boarding houses, tourist homes, cabins or
motels - 1 parking space for each guest or sleeping room or suite, plus 3
spaces for the owner or manager if resident on the premises;
      (4)   Hotels - 1 parking space for each room or suite, plus 2 spaces for
each 5 employees;
      (5)   Mobile home parks - 2 off-street parking spaces for each mobile
home berth;
      (6)   Travel trailer courts or camps - 1-1/2 parking spaces for each
trailer space;
      (7)   Private clubs or lodges - parking spaces equal in number to, but
not less than 20% of the active membership thereof, plus 1 space for each
employee of the club or lodge;
      (8)   Hospitals, sanitariums, convalescent homes - 1 parking space for
each 3 beds (excluding bassinets), plus 1 for each staff or visiting doctor,
plus 1 for each 2 employees, including nurses. Loading and unloading space for
all emergency vehicles is not included in the spaces herein;
      (9)   Mortuaries or funeral parlors - 1 parking space for all official
vehicles, plus 1 parking space for each family in residence on the premises,
plus 1 space for each 35 square feet of seating area;
      (10)   Dance hall - 1 space for each 35 square feet of dance floor area,
plus 1 space for each 2 employees;
      (11)   Bowling alleys - 5 parking spaces for each bowling lane, plus 1
parking space for each 2 employees;
      (12)   Miniature golf course, archery or golf driving range - 10 parking
spaces or 1 parking space for each practice area, whichever is greater;
      (13)   Convention halls, auditoriums, theaters, stadiums, sports arenas,
or similar uses - 1 parking space for each 4 seats based upon design capacity,
plus 1 parking space for each 2 employees;
      (14)   Churches - 1 parking space for each 3 seats based on the design
capacity of the main seating area;
      (15)   Medical and dental clinics and similar professional offices - 4
parking spaces, plus 1 space for each 500 square feet of floor area over 1,000
square feet;
      (16)   Golf courses, golf clubhouse, country club, swimming club, tennis
club, public swimming pool - 20 spaces, plus 1 space for each 500 square feet
of floor area in the principal structure;
      (17)   Auto, trailer, marine and boat sales, implement sales, garden
supply stores, building material sales and auto repair - 6 parking spaces, plus
1 parking space for each 500 square feet of floor area over 1,000 square feet;
      (18)   Retail sales and service establishments - 1 parking space for each
100 square feet of floor area;
      (19)   Restaurants, night clubs, tea rooms, and lunch counters - 1
parking space for each 100 square feet of gross floor space;
      (20)   Office, professional, or public buildings - 1 parking space for
each 250 square feet of gross floor area;
      (21)   Automobile service station - 4 parking spaces, plus 2 parking
spaces for each service stall. The parking spaces shall be in addition to the
gas pump service area;
      (22)   Drive-in restaurants - 20 parking spaces or 1 space for each 20
square feet of floor area, whichever is greater;
      (23)   General business, commercial, and personal service establishments
- 1 parking space per 400 square feet of gross floor area;
      (24)   Industrial and manufacturing establishments and storage, wholesale
or warehouse establishments - 1 off-street parking space for each 2 employees
on the major shift or 1 parking space for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor
area within the building, whichever is greater, plus 1 space for each company
motor vehicle when customarily kept on the premises; and
      (25)   Schools, public and private - 1 parking space for each classroom
plus 1 parking space for each 10 students, based upon design capacity.
   (O)   Loading area requirements. In any business or industrial district,
space for loading of vehicles shall be provided on the same lot for every
building used or designed to be used for business or industrial purposes. One
loading space at least 10 feet by 25 feet shall be provided for each 20,000
square feet of floor area in the building. No building or part thereof in a
business district or industrial district heretofore erected which is used for
any of the uses specified for the district shall hereafter be enlarged or
extended without providing off-street parking and loading space as provided for
in the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.13 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Signs.
      (1)   No sign shall hereafter be located, erected, moved, reconstructed,
extended, enlarged, converted, or structurally altered without a permit unless
no permit is required pursuant to division (B) below. The signs must be in
conformity with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Signs pertaining to or advertising products sold on the premises of
a non-conforming building or use may be continued only when the non-conforming
use is permitted to continue. Such signs must not be expanded in number, area,
height, or illumination. New signs not to exceed 35 square feet in aggregate
area may be erected only afer all other signs existing at the time of the
adoption of this section have been removed. New signs in conformity with the
above may have illumination on 1 face of the sign, but flashing, intermittent
or moving illumination is not permitted.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
   (B)   Exempted signs; no permit required. The following signs need no
permit, but shall conform to the requirements of this section:
      (1)   Signs for 1- or 2-family dwellings identifying the occupant or
street address, provided that the signs are less than 1 square foot in area;
      (2)   Pedestrian vehicular-traffic and parking directional signs in
parking lots, provided the signs are less than 8 square feet in area and 6 feet
in height;
      (3)   Public signs, street signs, warning signs, or signs of public
companies for the purpose of safety;
      (4)   Signs denoting the architect, engineer, contractor, or owners when
placed upon a work site. The signs shall be removed within 10 days after
completion of construction;
      (5)   Signs designating candidates seeking public political office,
provided that the election sign shall not exceed 8 square feet in size. The
signs shall be located on private property, shall not be located so as to
obstruct vehicular lines of sight and shall be removed in accordance with state
guidelines after the election is held;
      (6)   Flags, badges, or insignia of any government, governmental agency,
or any civic, religious, fraternal, or similar organization;
      (7)   Emergency signs required by any governmental agency;
      (8)   Temporary real estate signs pertaining only to the sale, rental, or
development of the lot upon which displayed. The signs shall not exceed 6
square feet for residential property or 24 square feet for other property. One
sign shall be permitted for each lot and must be removed within 10 days
following the sale, lease, or development;
      (9)   Banners placed on private property for advertising a special sales
event or grand opening. The banners shall contain no advertising;
      (10)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
when cut into or attached to any masonry surface or incombustible material;
      (11)   Home occupation signs, non-illuminated, attached to the wall of a
dwelling, and not exceeding 1.5 square foot in area; and
      (12)   Temporary real estate development signs pertaining to the sale,
rental, or development of the premises upon which displayed. One sign is
permitted per development. Each sign shall not exceed 32 square feet. Signs
shall be properly maintained and removed when 80% of the project is sold,
rented, or developed.
   (C)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited by this section:
      (1)   Signs that by reason of position, shape or color would interfere
with the proper function of a traffic sign, signal or be misleading to
vehicular traffic;
      (2)   Signs within a public right-of-way or easement, except for signs
installed by governmental subdivisions;
      (3)   Signs that resemble any official marker erected by a governmental
agency or that displays the words as “stop” or “danger” which are not erected
by legal authority;
      (4)   Signs attached to trees or utility poles;
      (5)   Signs with rotating beams or flashing illumination;
      (6)   Rotating signs; and
      (7)   Signs painted or attached to vehicles where the vehicle is parked
on a property and not intended to be moved.
   (D)   Permitted signs. The following signs are permitted in the R-1, R-2,
and A-1 Districts:
      (1)   Signs over show windows or doors of a nonconforming business
establishmentshall be governed by the provisions contained in division (A)(2).
(Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
      (2)   Name, occupation, and warning signs not to exceed 2 square feet
located on the premises;
      (3)   Bulletin boards for public, charitable, or religious institutions
not to exceed 20 square feet in area located on the premises;
      (4)   Religious uses, public institutions, non-residential and
residential development identification signs not exceeding 32 square feet in
area. The identification signs may be wall or ground mounted or combination
thereof. A ground sign shall not exceed 15 feet in height. There may be a
second sign if the use abuts 2 or more public streets; and
      (5)   All signs shall be set back 5 feet from the property line.
   (E)   Permitted uses. The following signs are permitted in the B1, B-2, and
I-1 Districts.
      (1)   Signs that are placed on the exterior walls of buildings shall not
extend more than 18 inches from a building’s wall surface, shall not exceed 250
square feet in area for any 1 premises, and shall not exceed 30 feet in height
above the mean centerline street grade. This provision shall not apply to
agricultural structures or structures in the industrial district.
      (2)   Ground signs which do not exceed 30 feet in height above the main
centerline street grade, shall meet all yard requirements for the district in
which it is located, shall not exceed 100 square feet on 1 side nor 200 square
feet on all sides for any 1 premises.
      (3)   Roof signs which do not exceed 10 feet in height above the roof
shall meet all the yard and height requirements for the district in which it is
located, and shall not exceed 300 square feet on all sides for any 1 premises.
      (4)   Window signs that are placed only on the inside of commercial
buildings.
      (5)   A combination of any of the above signs which shall meet all the
requirements for the individual sign except when the signs are located in the
industrial district.
      (6)   Projecting signs which provide a minimum undersign clearance of at
least 10 feet and shall not project more than 48 inches over a sidewalk.
      (7)   Off-premise advertising signs (billboards) shall only be permitted
in the B-1, B-2, or I-1 Districts and shall be spaced no closer than 300 feet.
These signs shall not exceed 55 feet in length nor 750 square feet in total
area. Maximum allowable signage shall be computed on the basis of 1 side of any
double-faced sign. Billboards shall meet all setback requirements and shall not
be located within 100 feet of any residential zone, church, school, or
designated recreation area.
   (F)   General regulations. No sign shall be erected, relocated, or
maintained so as to prevent free ingress to or egress from any door, window, or
fire escape, and no sign shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape.
   (G)   Nonconforming signs. Signs lawfully existing at the time of the
adoption or amendment of this chapter may be continued although the use, size,
or location does not conform with the provisions of this chapter. However, it
shall be deemed a nonconforming use or structure and the provisions of §
150.17 shall apply.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.14 TRUCKS, TRAILERS, AND CAMPERS.
   (A)   No trucks in excess of 1-ton rated capacity and no tractor or semi-
trailer shall be parked, stored, or repaired on public streets in any of the
residential districts, except for trucks making normal deliveries.
   (B)   No trucks, tractors, implements, or merchandise may be stored or
displayed for sale within the right-of-way of any public street or
thoroughfare.
   (C)   No campers, trailers, boats, or recreation vehicles shall be stored on
public rights-of-way. A camper, trailer, boat, or recreation vehicle left
unattended for 72 hours shall be considered stored on a public right-of-way.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.15 SATELLITE DISHES AND OTHER DISHES.
   (A)   Any satellite dishes hereafter erected shall conform with the
provisions of this section and any other ordinance or regulation of the city.
   (B)   All dish antennas over 1 meter (39.4 inches) shall be prohibited from
roof tops unless it is determined by the city that placement within side or
rear yards is impractical.
   (C)   Satellite dishes and other dishes shall not be located in front yards.
   (D)   No satellite dish or other dish shall be located within 10 feet of any
rear lot or side lot line in any residential district.
   (E)   Only 1 such structure exceeding the district height limitations shall
exist at any 1 time on any residential or commercially zoned and used lot or
parcel.
   (F)   The applicant is responsible for any required license by any federal,
state, or local agency.
   (G)   The owner of such a structure shall assume complete liability in case
of personal or property damage.
   (H)   The permit fee for satellite dishes or other dishes shall be $15 plus
the normal office fee of $3 for each permit issued.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.16 BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION OF RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOLS AND SPAS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOLS. Any constructed pool, permanent or portable,
which is intended for non-commercial use as a swimming pool by owner families
and their guests and which is over 36 inches in depth and/or has a surface area
exceeding 200 square feet.
      SPA. A unit primarily designed for therapeutic use which is not drained,
cleaned, or refilled for each individual. It may include, but not be limited
to, hydrojet circulation, hot water, cold water mineral baths, air induction
bubbles, or any combination thereof. Industry terminology for a spa includes,
but is not limited to, Therapeutic Pool, Hydrotherapy Pool, Whirlpool, Hot Spa,
and the like.
   (B)   Construction.
      (1)   Pools shall not be located within 10 feet of any side or rear lot
line nor within 6 feet of any principal structure or frost footing. Pools shall
not be located within any front yard.
      (2)   Pools shall not be located beneath overhead electrical lines or
over underground utility lines of any type.
      (3)   Pools shall not be located within any private or public utility,
walkway, drainage, or other easement.
      (4)   The filter unit, pump, heating unit, and any other noise making
mechanical equipment shall be located at least 30 feet from any adjacent
residential structure and not closer than 5 feet to any lot line.
      (5)   Lighting for the pool shall be directed toward the pool and not
toward adjacent property.
   (C)   Fencing.
      (1)   While being constructed, the pool or spa area must be fenced with a
portable fence, such as snow fence, of not less than 4 feet in height.
      (2)   All outdoor pools hereafter constructed shall be completely
enclosed by a fence or wall of the non-climbing type so as to be impenetrable
by toddlers, afford no external handholds or footholds, and a minimum of 6 feet
in height.
      (3)   All outdoor fence openings or outdoor points of entry into the pool
area shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices. The opening
between the bottom of the fence and the ground or other surface shall not be
more than 3 inches.
      (4)   All outdoor spas shall have either a fence as described above in
division (C)(3) above or a latchable cover. The cover shall be constructed of a
material impenetrable by toddlers.
   (D)   Permits. No person shall construct, alter, or renovate a pool or spa
without a building permit.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995; Am. Ord. 134, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Interpretation. This chapter and the districts herein, or any later
amendments may create situations where structures, buildings, or uses of the
land previously permitted may become prohibited, regulated, or otherwise
restricted. It is the intent of this chapter to permit the continuance of these
nonconforming structures or uses until they are removed, but not to encourage
their survival. The uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with
the permitted uses in the district involved.
      (1)   Alterations. The unlawful use of a building existing at the time of
the adoption of this section may be continued, although such use does not
conform to the provisions hereof. A non-conforming use of a building may be
changed to another non-conforming use of the same or more restricted
classification. The foregoing provisions shall also apply to non-conforming
uses in districts hereafter changed. Whenever a non-conforming use of a
building has been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, the
use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restrictive use.
      (2)   Discontinuance.
         (a)   In the event that a non-conforming use of any building or
premises is discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a period of 1
year, the use of the same shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
         (b)   Any non-conformity, including the lawful use or occupation of
land or premises existing at the time of the adoption of an additional control
under this section may be continued, including through repair, replacement,
restoration, maintenance or improvement, but not including expansion unless:
            1.   The non-conformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period
of more than 1 year; or
            2.   Any non-conforming use is destroyed by fire or other peril to
the extent of greater than 50% of its market value, and no zoning permit has
been applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged. The city may
impose reasonable conditions upon any zoning permit issued in order to mitigate
any newly created impact on adjacent property.
         (c)   Any subsequent use or occupancy of the land or premises shall be
a conforming use or occupancy. The city may impose upon non-conformities
reasonable regulations to prevent and abate nuisances and to protect the public
health, welfare or safety. This does not prohibit the city from enforcing an
ordinance that applies to adults-only theaters, or similar adults-only
businesses, as defined by ordinance.
         (d)   A change in ownership does not constitute a change in usage.
      (3)   Signs. Signs pertaining to or advertising products sold on the
premises of a non-conforming building or use shall be governed by division (A)
(2).
      (4)   Residential alterations. Other improvements or alterations may be
allowed to the extent that the current livability of the home is enhanced, but
not to the extent that the useful life expectancy of the property would be
increased. Examples of permitted improvements are: detached garages, open deck
or patio, accessory building. all setbacks for improvements or alterations must
comply with those of the Residential District. Alterations my be made to a
residential building containing non-conforming residential units when they will
improve the habitability of such units, provided however, that they do not
increase the number of dwelling units in the building.
      (5)   Normal maintenance. Maintenance of a building or other structure
containing or used for a non-conforming use will be permitted when it include
necessary non-structural repairs and incidental alterations, which do not
extend or intensity the non-conforming use at any time.
      (6)   Change in use. A non-conforming use may be changed to a conforming
use at any time.
      (7)   Extensions and additions. The extension or addition of a lawful use
to any portion of a non-conforming building or structure or land shall not be
deemed as the extension of the non-conforming use.
      (8)   Classification of use. All uses which lawfully exist on the
effective date of this division and are classified as a conditional use by this
section for the district in which they are located, shall be considered lawful
conditional uses.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
   (B)   Nonconforming lots of record. A single-family dwelling and customary
accessory buildings, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of
this chapter, may be erected in any district in which single-family dwellings
are permitted on any single lot of record at the effective date of adoption of
or amendment to this chapter. The lot must be in separate ownership and not of
continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. The provisions shall
apply even though the lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or
both, that are generally applicable in the district, provided that yard
dimensions and other requirements not involving area or width, or both, of the
lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which the lot is
located. If, in a group of 2 or more lots under the same ownership, any
individual lot does not meet the area and width requirements of this chapter,
the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel or land for the purposes of
sale or development. The lot must be combined with the 1 or more contiguous
lots so they equal 1 or more parcels of land, each meeting the area and width
requirements of this chapter. Variances of area, width, and yard requirements
shall be obtained only through action of the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   Construction approved prior to adoption of this chapter. To avoid
undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall require a change in the plans,
construction, or designated use of any building or structure, provided that:
      (1)   A zoning permit has been issued within 60 days prior to the
adoption of this chapter;
      (2)   That the construction of which shall have commenced within 30 days
after the adoption of this chapter;
      (3)   That the construction is continuous until the building or structure
is completed; and
      (4)   Actual construction is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in permanent position; except where demolition or
removal of an existing building or structure has commenced preparatory to
construction, provided that work shall be diligently carried on until
completion of the building or structure involved.
   (D)   Repairs and maintenance. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
reconstruction, repairing, or rebuilding of a nonconforming building,
structure, or part thereof existing at the effective date of this chapter,
rendered necessary by wear and tear, deterioration or depreciation, provided
the cost of the work shall not exceed 50% of the replacement value of the
building or structure at the time the work is done, nor prevent compliance with
the provisions of any city codes relative to the maintenance of buildings or
structures; provided that the cubic content of the building as it existed at
the time of passage or amendment of this chapter shall not be increased.
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the reconstruction, repairing,
rebuilding, and continued use of any nonconforming building or structure
damaged by flood, fire, collapse, explosion, or Acts of God, subsequent to the
date of this chapter, wherein the expense of the work does not exceed 50% of
the replacement cost of the building or structure at the time the damage
occurred.
   (E)   Nonconforming signs. Signs existing on the effective date of this
chapter which do not conform to the regulations set forth in this chapter shall
become a nonconforming use. Business signs on the premises of a nonconforming
building or use may be continued, but the signs shall not be increased in
number, area, height, or illumination. No sign erected before the passage of
this chapter shall be rebuilt, altered, or moved to a new location on the
affected property without being brought into compliance with the requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.18 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose and application.
      (1)   The principal objective of this chapter is to provide for an
orderly arrangement of compatible building and land uses and for the proper
locations of all types of uses required by the city. To accomplish this
objective, each type and kind of use is classified as permitted in 1 or more of
the various districts established by this chapter. However, in addition to
those uses specifically classified and permitted in each district, there are
certain additional uses which may be allowed because of their unusual
characteristics or the service they provide the public. These conditional uses
require particular consideration as to their proper location in relation to
adjacent established or intended use and the planned development of the
community, therefore, public hearings are required before granting a
conditional use. Conditional use permits may be issued for any of the
following:
         (a)   Any of the uses or purposes for which the permits are required
or permitted by provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   Public utility or public service uses or public building or
community buildings in any district when found to be necessary for the public
health, safety, convenience, or welfare; and/or
         (c)   To classify as a conforming use any nonconforming institutional
use existing in any district at the time of the establishment of the district.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
      (2)   An application for a conditional use permit shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator. The application shall be accompanied by a site plan
showing the information as is necessary to show compliance with this chapter,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Description of site (legal description);
         (b)   Site plan drawn to scale showing parcel and building dimensions;
         (c)   Location of all buildings and their square footage;
         (d)   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces, off-street
loading areas, and sidewalks;
         (e)   Landscaping and screening plans;
         (f)   Drainage plan;
         (g)   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated use per day;
         (h)   Soil type (clay or black dirt); and
         (i)   Any additional data reasonably required by the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Notification and public hearing. A public hearing on any request for a
conditional use permit must be held before the Planning Commission before the
permit is granted. Written notice of the request for a conditional use permit
and the public hearing upon the request shall be sent to all property owners or
residents within 300 feet of the property. A notice shall also be published in
the official newspaper of the area. This published notice shall not appear more
than 30 days nor less than 10 days before the hearing. The notice shall
describe the particular conditional use and shall contain a brief description
thereof. Assessor tax records and street addresses shall be deemed sufficient
for location or certification of ownership of the adjacent properties. However,
an error in the published notice of public hearing or failure to notify a
specific property owner of the application for a conditional use permit shall
not be considered cause to declare the public hearing invalid.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
   (C)   Findings. For each application for a conditional use permit, the
Planning Commission shall report to the City Council its findings and
recommendations, including the stipulation of additional conditions or
restrictions and guarantees that the conditions or restrictions will be
complied with when they are deemed necessary for the protection of the public
interest. No conditional use shall be recommended by the Planning Commission
unless the Commission shall find:
      (1)   That the conditional use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the
immediate vicinity, and is compatible with the existing neighborhood;
      (2)   That the establishment of the conditional use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant property
for uses predominant in the area and conforms to the comprehensive land use
plan of the city/county;
      (3)   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and other
necessary facilities have been or are being provided;
      (4)   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
sufficient off-street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use;
      (5)   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to prevent or
control offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise, and vibration, so that none of
these will constitute a nuisance, and to control lighted signs and other lights
in such a manner that no disturbance to neighboring properties will result;
      (6)   That soil conditions are adequate to accommodate the proposed use;
and/or
      (7)   That proper facilities are provided which would eliminate any
traffic congestion or traffic hazard which may result from the proposed use.
   (D)   Action by the City Council.
      (1)   After receipt of the report regarding the conditional use permit
from the Planning Commission, the City Council shall hold whatever additional
public hearings it deems advisable and shall decide whether to grant or deny
the conditional use permit.
      (2)   If the City Council chooses to grant the permit, it may impose the
restrictions or conditions in addition to or in substitution for any conditions
or restrictions recommended by the Planning Commission as it deems necessary to
protect the public interest. If the Planning Commission in its recommendations
to the City Council has indicated that the proposed conditional use may result
in a material adverse effect on the environment, the applicant for the permit
may be requested by the City Council to demonstrate the nature and extend of
the effect before the City Council approved the permit.
      (3)   The conditional use permit, if approved, shall be issued by the
Zoning Administrator upon the order of the City Council.
   (E)   Filing and fees.
      (1)   A certified copy of any conditional use permit shall be filed with
the County Recorder or Registrar of Titles for record by the person or firm
requesting the permit. The conditional use permit shall include the legal
description of the property involved.
      (2)   To defray administrative costs or processing requests for
conditional use permits, a fee shall be paid by the applicant. This conditional
use permit fee shall be set by the City Council.
   (F)   Compliance.
      (1)   Any use permitted under the terms of any conditional use permit
shall be established and conducted in conformity with the terms of the permit
and of any such conditions designated in connection therewith, and the
conditional use permit shall remain in effect only so long as the terms and
conditions agreed upon are observed.
      (2)   The City Council shall revoke a conditional use permit when it
determines that the terms and conditions of the permit as issued are no longer
being complied with. A certified copy of an order of the city revoking a
conditional use permit shall be filed with the County Recorder for record.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
§ 150.19 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, or any other organization or entity
having an interest in real property which is subject to the provisions of this
chapter may apply for a variance from those provisions in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   The City Planning Commission shall review requests for variances
and shall hold at least 1 public hearing on the request. After the conclusion
of the hearing(s), the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation on the
request to the City Council who shall then make the final decision on whether
or not to grant the variance.
      (3)   No variance shall be granted that would allow any use that is
prohibited in the zoning district in which the subject property is located.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
   (B)   Grounds for a variance.
      (1)   A variance shall be granted when:
         (a)   It is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this
chapter;
         (b)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of the strict application of the provisions of this chapter. The terms
DIFFICULTIES and HARDSHIPS mean that the property in question cannot be put to
a reasonable use if used under the conditions allowed by this chapter. The
request by the applicant for a variance must be due to circumstances unique to
the property and not created by the applicant, and it must be related to the
property rather than to a personal preference or idiosyncrasy of the applicant.
Economic considerations alone shall not constitute a difficulty or hardship for
the purpose of granting a variance if a reasonable use for the property exists
under the terms of this chapter;
         (c)   A district is extended where the boundary line thereof divides a
lot in 1 ownership at the time for the passage of this chapter, but the
extension of any district shall not exceed 100 feet;
         (d)   The variance, if granted, shall not alter the eventual character
of the locality.
      (2)   In recommending any adjustment or variance to the City Council
under the provisions of this section, the City Planning Commission may impose
the further conditions as it deems necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and to protect adjacent properties and the public
interest.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
      (3)   The applicant for a variance which, in the opinion of the Planning
Commission, may result in a material adverse effect on the environment, may be
requested by the Planning Commission to demonstrate the nature and extent of
the effect before the Planning Commission recommends the granting of the
variance.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   An application for a variance shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator. The application must contain the name of the applicant, a legal
description of the affected property and the applicant’s relation thereto, the
specific provision or provisions of this chapter from which the variance is
requested, and the grounds therefore which must be in accordance with the
provisions of this section and must be signed by the applicant. At the option
of the Zoning Administrator and/or the Planning Commission, the application
shall be accompanied by a site plan showing pertinent information including,
but not limited to:
         (a)   Description of site (legal description);
         (b)   Site plan showing parcel and building dimensions;
         (c)   Location of all buildings and their square footage;
         (d)   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces, off-street
loading areas, and sidewalks;
         (e)   Landscaping and screening plans;
         (f)   Drainage plan;
         (g)   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated use per day;
         (h)   Soil type (clay or black dirt); and
         (i)   Any additional data reasonably required by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   The City Zoning Administrator upon receipt of a proper application
for a variance shall set a time and place for a public hearing before the
Planning Commission on the application. At least 10 days in advance of any such
hearing, notice of the time, place, and purpose of the hearing shall be
published in the official newspaper of the city.
      (3)   Written notice of the public hearing shall be sent to all property
owners or residents within 300 feet of the property. The notice shall describe
the particular variance and shall contain a description thereof.
      (4)   The Planning Commission may continue the hearing concerning the
application for a variance, or it may hold the additional hearings as it deems
advisable. The Planning Commission shall make its recommendation upon the
application to the City Council within 30 days of the conclusion of the hearing
relating to any given application. The City Council may also then hold whatever
additional public hearings it deems advisable in regard to the application.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
      (5)   The City Planning Commission shall not recommend the granting of
any application and the Council shall not grant any application unless they
find the following facts. At the hearing the application shall present evidence
in the form as the City Planning Commission may require, to show these facts:
         (a)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
land, building, or use referred to in the application;
         (b)   That the granting of the application is necessary for the
preservation and enjoyment of substantial property rights; and
         (c)   That the granting of the application will not materially affect
adversely the health or safety of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood of the property of the applicant and will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in
the neighborhood.
      (6)   No permit shall be issued under the provisions of this section
unless and until a recommendation of the City Planning Commission, as
aforesaid, is received and the variance request is approved by the City
Council. In reporting its recommendation to the City Council, the City Planning
Commission shall report its findings with respect thereto and all facts in
connection therewith, and shall specifically and fully set forth any adjustment
or variance recommended and the conditions designated. Upon receipt of the
report the City Council, acting as the Board of Adjustment, shall either
approve the application, with or without changes, whereupon the permit as
applied for may be issued; or shall refuse to approve the application. All
decisions by the Board of Adjustment (City Council) in granting or denying a
variance shall be final except that any aggrieved person or persons, or any
department, board, or commission within the county or state shall have the
right to appeal, within 30 days, after receipt of notice of the Board’s
decision, to the District Court on questions of law and fact.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
   (D)   Fees. To defray administrative costs of processing requests for
variances, a fee shall be paid by the applicant. This fee is in addition to the
regular building permit fee. Fees for variances will be set by the City
Council.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
§ 150.20 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   A City Planning Commission is hereby established and vested with the
administrative authority as is provided within this chapter. The Commission
shall consist of not less than 5 and not more than 9 members and an
Administrator as an ex officio member without the right to vote on matters
before the Commission. The members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
the approval of the City Council. The Commission members shall be compensated
for their expenses at the rate of $10 for each meeting they attend. Its members
shall meet once a month when there is business to be discussed. A Secretary
shall be appointed by the Planning Commission out of its members.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995; Am. Ord. 141, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 150.21 ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   Application. Except as hereinafter provided, no person, firm, or
corporation shall construct, erect, alter, wreck, or move any building or
structure or parts thereof within the corporate limits of the city without
first securing a permit from the city. A permit certifies that the proposed
construction is in compliance with this chapter. Application for the zoning
permit shall be made to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Issuing of permits. A permit must be issued by the city prior to any
construction activity. The city will collect the fee for the permit application
according to the schedule set by the City Council. At no time and under any
circumstances will a permit be issued until the appropriate fee has been paid
by the applicant and the application has been reviewed by the Planning
Commission and approved by the City Council. Below is the process to which an
individual must adhere when applying for a zoning permit.
      (1)   Individual(s) requesting the permit must contact the City Clerk/
Treasurer’s office to secure a zoning permit application form.
      (2)   The application form must be completed in its entirety and the
appropriate fee must be paid to the City Clerk/Treasurer. A site plan showing
all dimensions must accompany the completed application.
      (3)   Upon its submittal to the City Clerk/Treasurer, the application
will be reviewed with the applicant. If the property is properly zoned, the
application will be placed on the agenda of the Planning Commission for action
at its meeting. If the existing use of the property is not a permitted use, but
rather a conditional use, one which would require a variance or amendment to
the City Zoning Ordinance, the city staff will take the following action(s):
         (a)   Determine which special request is required to be taken to the
Planning Commission;
         (b)   Inform the applicant as to the process of the request; and
         (c)   Based on the applicant’s decision, the City Clerk/Treasurer will
collect the appropriate special fee from the applicant and follow the
procedures outlined in this chapter:
            1.   Section
150.18 for conditional use permits;
            2.   Section
150.19 for variance requests; and
            3.   Section
150.22 for amendments (rezoning).
      (4)   All zoning permit/special application fee(s) must be paid in
advance. Permits will not be issued and special applications will not be placed
on an agenda without payment. Permits will be issued by the City Clerk/
Treasurer after being reviewed by the City Planning Commission and approved by
the City Council.
      (5)   If an amendment to the site plan is desired, the applicant must
submit an amended site plan to the City Clerk/Treasurer prior to commencing
construction. Under no circumstances will a change in site plan be approved
unless an amended site plan is submitted to the Planning Commission for its
review and recommendation and approved by the City Council.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-6-1996)
   (C)   Improvements requiring a zoning permit.
      (1)   General provisions. A zoning permit is required for any new
residential, commercial and/or industrial construction as well as any
improvement which will enlarge the physical exterior of an existing structure.
Interior projects do not require zoning permits nor do projects such as re-
shingling, re-siding or new or replacement windows in buildings. Projects such
as the widening a driveway surface constructed of bituminous or concrete
material or other hard surfaced area, or the construction of a concrete pad for
purposes such as patios, loading areas, or other such areas also require a
permit.
      (2)   Carpentry. Porch, patio, or deck - permit is required to build such
a structure or to enlarge a structure of this type.
      (3)   Speciality work.
         (a)   Demolition or moving of structures out of the city. 
            1.   Permit required by no fee will be charged to the applicant. In
instances where no new construction is planned to replace the structure being
taken down or moved, the property owner is responsible for removal of the
structure’s entire foundation, including the footings and flooring material.
The property owner is also responsible for backfilling, with suitable material
such as sand, gravel or dir, of any existing basement, crawl space or other
depression left in the ground as a result of removal. Pieces of the foundation
are not an acceptable type of fill. Neither are pieces of concreted from
sidewalks that might be around the structure. No hazardous material, concrete,
wood, wire, metal, plastic or similar types may be left in the depression or
deposited into the depression before it is filled. City employees must inspect
the work as it is being done. The top 4 inches of the depression must be filled
with black dirt.
            2.   If there is water and/or sanitary seer service to the
structure, the property owner or his or her agent must seal the sewer service
with a non-shrinking grout or another approved method to assure that it is
water tight. The water line must also be capped off in an approved manner. The
owner or his or her contractor/agent must also call for an inspection by city
employees prior to backfilling. If underground work is backfilled or covered
before inspection, the property owner and/or his or her contractor/agent are
responsible and are subject to the expense of removing the fill or cover for
inspection.
            3.   After the depression is filled, the property owner is then
responsible for leveling the lot and placing and maintaining the lot in a
sightly and well-kept condition.
(Am. Ord. passed 10-4-1999; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
         (b)   Moving of houses, garages, and the like into the city or from
one location to another within the city. Permit required.
         (c)   Fences. Permits are required to erect fences in all districts
within the city with the exception of those fences used for crowd control, to
protect vegetable or flower gardens from animals, to prevent entry into an area
where activities such as utility work, construction, or demolition are
occurring or to protect the general public from a possibly hazardous condition
such as a fire or accident scene or a dangerous building. Fences used as dog
kennels must have a permit issued before they can be erected. Those individuals
wishing to erect fences to block snow during winter months must also obtain a
permit which will be issued at no charge. Height requirements as stated in §
150.11(R) shall apply to all fences with the exception of crowd control or
other types of fencing erected to protect the general public from hazardous
conditions. Snow fences erected by city, county, or state highway departments
to help prevent snow build-up on roads and streets shall not require a permit
as long as the permission of the property owner is received before placement.
         (d)   Utility shed. Permits are required for assembly of a shed or
moving the building onto a lot as well as for shed removal.
      (4)   Required inspections. If any building deemed for public occupancy
(i.e., schools and churches) is constructed or renovated, the property owner
must have any plumbing, heating, ventilation, and electrical work, which was
part of the construction/renovation process, inspected and approved. Any public
building, as defined by Minnesota Statutes, constructed or remodeled in the
city must comply with the federal Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) and/or
the State Building Code requirements for handicapped persons.
   (D)   Schedule of fees, charges, and expenses.
      (1)   The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and
expenses and a collection procedure for building permits, appeals, and other
matters pertaining to this chapter. The schedule of fees shall be recorded in
the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   No zoning permit, conditional use permit, or variance shall be
issued unless or until the costs, charges, fees, or expenses have been paid in
full. Permits expire 1 year after date of issue; therefore, all exterior
construction and landscaping must be completed within the 1-year time period.
If the project has not been completed within 1 year, the permit holder may
apply to the Planning Commission and City Council, prior to the expiration date
of the permit, for 1 extension at no additional charge. The extension will be
valid for 6 months. If work is still not completed at the end of the 6-month
extension, the permit holder must apply for a new permit. The Planning
Commission and City Council will consider the application in the same manner as
any new permit application received including the scheduling of any hearings
that might be necessary before approval is given as well as the imposition of
any fees charged for such a permit. If an extension is not requested before the
1-year expiration date, the permit holder must also apply for a new permit and
the same requirements apply as when a 6-month extension has expired without
completion of the project.
(Am. Ord. passed 12-7-1998)
      (3)   Only 2 zoning permits will be issued to 1 permit holder at 1 time.
At least 1 permit must be completed before the permit holder will be allowed to
apply for another permit.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2005)
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
§ 150.22 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   This chapter may be amended whenever the public necessity and the
general welfare require the amendment by following the procedure specified in
this section.
      (2)   Proceedings for amendment of this chapter shall be initiated by:
         (a)   A petition of the affected property owners. For purposes of this
section, affected property owners shall refer to owners of the property
specified on the application;
         (b)   A recommendation of the Planning Commission; and/or
         (c)   Action of the City Council.
      (3)   An application for an amendment shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   Public hearing. Written notice of the public hearing shall be sent to
all property owners or residents within 300 feet of the property. The public
hearing shall be given at least 10 days notice in advance by publishing a
notice in the official newspaper of the area. The notice shall describe the
particular amendment and shall contain a description thereof.
   (C)   Authorization. Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission
shall make a report of its findings and recommendations on the proposed
amendment and shall file a copy with the City Clerk/Treasurer within 30 days
after the hearing. If no report or recommendation is transmitted by the
Planning Commission within 30 days after the hearing, the City Council may take
action without awaiting the recommendation. Upon the filing of the report or
recommendation, the City Council may hold the public hearings upon the
amendment as it deems advisable. After the conclusion of the hearings, if any,
the City Council may adopt the amendment or any part thereof in the form as it
deems advisable. The amendment shall be effective only if at least 4/5 of all
the members of the Council concur in its passage.
   (D)   Fees. To defray administrative costs of processing requests for an
amendment to this chapter, a fee shall be paid by the petitioner.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
§ 150.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   The office of the City Planning/Zoning Administrator is hereby established,
for which the City Council may appoint the employee or employees of the city as
it may deem proper. It shall be the duty of the City Planning/Zoning
Administrator to institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent,
restrain, correct, or abate the violations or threatened violations and it
shall be the duty of the City or County Attorney’s office to institute the
action.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
§ 150.24 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon its adoption and publication
according to law.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation convicted of violating any of the
provisions hereof or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions hereof
or who shall make any false statement in any document required to be submitted
under the provisions hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and any issued
permits shall be void.
(Ord. 106, passed 3-13-1995)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Permit requirements
   
151.03   Permit application
   
151.04   Duties of the City Clerk
   
151.05   Review of permit application
   
151.06   Review of subdivision proposals
   
151.07   Water supply system
   
151.08   Sanitary sewage and waste disposal systems
   
151.09   Annexations and extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to real estate, including but not limited
to construction or reconstruction of buildings, installing manufactured homes
or travel trailers, installing utilities, construction of roads or bridges,
erection of levees, walls, or fences, drilling mining, filling, dredging, and
storage of materials.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land area from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD PLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source. (See FLOOD)
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on permanent chasses and is designated of ruse with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For flood
plain management purposes, new construction means structures for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a flood plain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   PERSON. Includes any individuals, corporation, partnership, association, or
any other entity, including state and local governments and agencies
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to a 1% or great chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be
designated as Zone A on the FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has been completed
in preparation for publication of the flood insurance rate map, Zone A usually
is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH,
AR/A, VO, or V1-30, VE, or V. For purposes of these regulations, the term
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA is synonymous in meaning the phrase AREA OF SPECIAL
FLOOD HAZARD.
   STRUCTURE. For flood plain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, including gas or liquid storage tanks, that is principally above
ground. The term includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers on a site
for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged, and is being restored before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure regardless of the actual work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of an historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure
(Ord. 143, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 151.02 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person may erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve, move,
or demolish any building or structure without first obtaining a separate permit
for each building or structure from the designated responsible person.
   (B)   No man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including
but not limited to buildings or other structures, fences, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, may be commenced
until a separate permit has been obtained from the designated responsible
person for each change.
   (C)   No manufactured home may be placed on improved or unimproved real
estate without first obtaining a separate permit for each manufactured home
from the designated responsible person.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 151.03 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   To obtain a permit, the applicant must first file a permit application on a
form furnished for that purpose. The form must be completed and submitted to
the designated responsible person before a permit will be issued.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 151.04 DUTIES OF THE CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk, hereinafter referred to as the responsible person, is
appointed as the person responsible for receiving applications and examining
the plans and specifications for the proposed construction or development.
   (B)   After reviewing the application, the responsible person may require
any additional measures which are necessary to meet the minimum requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   The responsible person must review proposed development to assure that
all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies from
which approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 151.05 REVIEW OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The responsible person must review all permit applications to determine
whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a
proposed building site is in a flood prone area, all new construction and
substantial improvements (including the placement of manufactures homes) must
be:
   (A)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent floatation,
collapse, or later movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage;
   (C)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
locate so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 151.06 REVIEW OF SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   The responsible person must review subdivision proposals and other proposed
new development to determine whether such proposals will be reasonably safe
from flooding. If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is
in a flood prone area, any such proposal must be reviewed to assure that:
   (A)   All proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage
within the flood prone area;
   (B)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazard.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 151.07 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   The responsible person must require within flood prone area, new and
replacement water supply systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the system.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 151.08 SANITARY SEWAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   The responsible person must require within flood prone areas:
   (A)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems to be designated to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems an
discharges from the systems into flood waters; and
   (B)   On-site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 151.09 ANNEXATIONS AND EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The city may not approve any development located in a special flood hazard
area (SFHA) outside the corporate limits unless such development or plat is in
accordance with the following:
   (A)   The flood plain ordinance legally adopted by the city that meets the
minimum federal (44 CFR 60.3), state (Minnesota Regulations Parts 6120.5000
through 612.6200), and local requirements for development within a special
flood hazard area;
   (B)   The SFHA's of those parts of unincorporated Blue Earth County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed
into the city are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) dated March 3, 1990 and prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA).
(Ord. 143, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 151.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTION.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing, easements, covenants or deed restriction.
   (B)   Where this chapter and other ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions will prevail.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction there be fined
not less than $25 or more than $200. A separate offense will be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 143, passed 1-6-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
54       - -         Annexation of land; DeWitz’s Addition
31       2-7-1921    Annexation of land
32       2-7-1921    Annexation of land
33       4-4-1921    Annexation of land
35       3-5-1923    Annexation of land; Brush’s Addition
39       10-3-1923   Annexation of land
40       6-2-1924    Annexation of land
57       7-5-1950    Annexation of land; DeWitz’s Second Addition
60       6-15-1953   Annexation of land; Truwe’s Second Addition
62       12-27-1954  Annexation of land; DeWitz’s Third Addition
67       6-4-1962    Annexation of land
70       1-8-1968    Annexation of land
77       7-26-1972   Annexation of land
82       8-1-1977    Annexation of land
83       10-3-1977   Annexation of land
84       8-12-1978   Annexation of land
88       8-6-1981    Annexation of land; southwest corner of Steven’s Second
                     Addition
104      7-8-1993    Annexation of land; Jerome C. and Vicki L. Benrud
142      8-6-2018    Annexation of land; Loren Schwarz and Amy Ketelsen
146      2-5-2024    Annexation of land; 3.08 acres on west boundary of city
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
53       - -         Electric franchise granted to Interstate Power Company for
                     25 years
103      5-4-1992    Gas franchise granted to Minnegasco for 20 years
110      11-6-1996   Electric franchise granted to Interstate Power Company for
                     25 years
111      1-6-1997    Cable franchise granted to Woodstock, LLC
127      12-10-2009  Cable franchise granted to Crystal Communications, Inc.
                     DBA HickoryTech for 15 years
131      4-2-2012    Gas franchise granted to CenterPoint Energy for 20 years
                     Electric franchise granted to Blue Earth-Nicollet-
144      4-4-2022    Faribault Cooperative Electric Association, DBA Benco
                     Electric Cooperative
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. References Code Section
M.S. References                     Code Section
12.25                               30.01;
                                    30.04
12.31                               30.06
14.57–14.70                       111.36;
                                    111.99
16.85                               150.03
84.787, Subd. 7                     73.01
84.81–84.91                       72.01
84.872                              72.06
84.92                               73.01
115.01, Subd. 8                     50.01
115.07                              50.01
144.391                             112.01
145A.05                             130.02
152.02                              91.04
157.16                              111.03
157.16, Subd. 3d                    111.03
168.10                              150.12
168B.011, Subd. 3                   94.20
168B.10                             150.12
                                    70.01;
169                                 72.01;
                                    73.08
169.01                              70.04;
                                    150.12
169.01, Subd. 3                     70.09
160.045(7)                          73.08
169.222                             74.26
169.522                             73.08
169.69                              70.10
169.693                             70.10
169.999                             10.98
169.999, Subd. 1(b)(1), (2) and (3) 10.98
243.166                             130.03
243.167                             130.03
244.052                             130.03
244.052, Subd. 3(i)                 130.03
272.67                              31.01
272.67, Subd. 5                     31.03
272.115, Subd. 1                    50.11
327.31, Subd. 3                     150.03
329                                 114.03
                                    111.01;
                                    111.02;
340A                                111.20;
                                    111.23;
                                    111.36;
                                    111.99
340A.14, Subd. 6                    111.22
340A.101                            111.03;
                                    111.22
340A.401, Subd.1                    111.22
340A.404, Subd. 1(4)                111.55
340A.404, Subd. 4a                  111.22
340A.404, Subd. 5                   111.22
340A.408, Subd. 2b                  111.22
340A.408, Subd. 3                   111.22
340A.408, Subd. 4b                  111.22
340A.408, Subd. 5                   111.23
340A.409                            111.25;
                                    111.54
340A.413                            111.55
340A.413, Subd. 3                   111.20
340A.414                            111.35
340A.503, Subd. 1(a)(1)             130.02
340A.504                            111.33
340A.504, Subd. 3                   111.22
340A.504, Subd. 3c                  111.22
340A.509                            111.02
340A.801                            111.25
342.01                              130.04
347.51                              92.12
                                    113.01;
349                                 113.02;
                                    113.15
349.11–349.21                     113.99
349.11–349.23                     113.06;
                                    113.07
349.12                              113.04
349.12, Subd. 5                     113.13
349.16                              113.13
349.166                             113.09
349.213                             113.02
412.221, Subd. 32                   110.01
415.01                              90.20
429.061                             94.24
                                    91.11;
                                    94.01;
429.101                             94.02;
                                    94.24;
                                    94.43
444.075                             54.01
444.075(3)                          54.13
461.12                              112.01
463                                 91.11
463.15 et seq.                      94.01
463.17                              94.23
466.02                              91.02
471.6985                            111.53
514.67                              94.01
609.342                             130.03
609.343                             130.03
609.344                             130.03
609.345                             130.03
609.3451, Subd. 3                   130.03
609.3453                            130.03
609.75–609.763                    113.06;
                                    113.99
626.862                             10.20
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      5-5-1986    50.04
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
53       - -         TSO II
54       - -         TSO I
31       2-7-1921    TSO I
32       2-7-1921    TSO I
33       4-4-1921    TSO I
35       3-5-1923    TSO I
39       10-3-1923   TSO I
40       6-2-1924    TSO I
57       7-5-1950    TSO I
60       6-15-1953   TSO I
62       12-27-1954  TSO I
67       6-4-1962    TSO I
70       1-8-1968    TSO I
77       7-26-1972   TSO I
82       8-1-1977    TSO I
83       10-3-1977   TSO I
84       8-12-1978   TSO I
88       8-6-1981    TSO I
                     50.01-
101      1-3-1990    50.10;
                     50.98
                     51.01-
102      1-3-1990    51.07;
                     Ch. 51, App. A
–      11-7-1990   51.03;
                     Ch. 51, App. A
103      5-4-1992    TSO II
                     50.06;
–      6-14-1993   50.09;
                     50.98
104      7-8-1993    TSO I
                     93.01-
105      9-8-1993    93.10;
                     93.14;
                     93.99
–      2-6-1995    51.05
                     150.01-
106      3-13-1995   150.24;
                     150.99
107      7-3-1995    52.01-
                     52.19
–      8-7-1995    Ch. 51, App. A
–      10-2-1995   150.03
109      11-6-1995   92.30
–      5-6-1996    50.03,
                     50.04
                     150.03;
                     150.05;
                     150.06;
–      11-6-1996   150.09;
                     150.11;
                     150.18;
                     150.19;
                     150.21
110      11-6-1996   TSO II
111      1-6-1997    TSO II
–      3-3-1997    51.05;
                     52.04
113      12-2-1997   112.01-
                     112.14
–      3-2-1998    Ch. 51, App. A
–      4-6-1998    Ch. 51, App. A
–      12-7-1998   150.11;
                     150.21
–      2-1-1999    93.08
                     53.01-
114      5-3-1999    53.10;
                     53.99
–      10-4-1999   150.21
–      6-5-2000    Ch. 51, App. A
–      10-2-2000   150.09
–      12-4-2000   Ch. 51, App. A
–      8-6-2001    150.12
–      9-4-2001    150.09
                     51.03;
–      1-7-2002    Ch. 51, App. A;
                     52.14
                     Ch. 51, App. A;
–      5-6-2002    150.08;
                     150.09;
                     150.10
117      5-6-2002    110.01-
                     110.15
–      6-3-2002    53.03
–      10-7-2002   50.10
                     150.03;
                     150.05;
                     150.06;
–      1-3-2005    150.09;
                     150.11;
                     150.12;
                     150.21
119      1-3-2005    90.20-
                     90.27
                     91.01-
120      4-4-2005    91.17;
                     91.99
–      11-7-2005   50.06
–      12-5-2005   53.04
                     51.05;
–      3-6-2006    Ch. 51, App. A;
                     52.04
–      9-5-2006    Ch. 51, App. A
                     90.01-
121      11-8-2006   90.04;
                     90.99
122      6-4-2007    94.18
–      10-1-2007   150.13;
                     150.17; 50.21
–      --2009      Ch. 51, App. A
126      11-2-2009   52.05
127      12-10-2009  TSO II
128      12-6-2010   10.98;
                     Ch. 10, App. A
–      6-6-2011    Ch. 51, App. A
130      10-10-2011  130.02
131      4-2-2012    TSO II
132      6-4-2012    52.16
134      5-5-2014    150.16
136      - -         32.01
137      - -         31.01–
                     31.07
138      8-3-2015    73.08
139      2-6-2017    130.03
141      3-6-2017    150.20
142      8-6-2018    TSO I
                     151.01–
143      1-6-2020    151.10,
                     151.99
92.40    4-13-2020   92.01;
                     92.40
150.30   11-9-2020   50.11
–      8-2-2021    54.01–
                     54.13
144      4-4-2022    TSO II
130.10   - -         130.04
146      2-5-2024    TSO I
                    
 
 
