BAUDETTE, MN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
The code reflects current state statutes, case law and rules through December,
2022.
 
By
The League of Minnesota Cities
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
   Appendix:   Notice of code violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
2004 Supp.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used to refer to
the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. The county or counties in which the city is located.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this
Minnesota Basic Code of Ordinances, all future amendments to any state or
federal rules and statutes adopted by reference in this code or referenced in
this code are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in
existence at the time this code was adopted, unless there is clear intention
expressed in the code to the contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting the
Minnesota Basic Code of Ordinances, all future supplements are hereby adopted
as if they had been in existence at the time this Code was enacted, unless
there is clear intention expressed in the Code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any Licensed Peace Officer of the city's Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk shall have the authority to administer and enforce this
code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Clerk or City Council shall have the
authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk and any city official or employee designated by this
code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with the
permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident of
a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Clerk or any other authorized city officer or employee
only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce
these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection of or entrance
to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all permits,
licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given to the
licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property, stating
the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or other
person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Clerk to object to the termination before it occurs, subject to
appeal of the Clerk's decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or
special meeting.
   (E)   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk, Peace Officer, or any employee or official charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable cause
exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting the
inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only to
determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the City to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
The resolution may be in the form established in Appendix VI of the User’s
Guide to the MBC. Such resolution may not proscribe administrative penalties
for traffic offenses designated by M.S. § 169.999.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk, or other person
giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, a written
notice must be provided of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to
the person who is alleged to have violated the code. The person giving notice
may request the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation
directly to the City Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. A
sample notice is contained in the Appendix to this chapter. In the sole
discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the time
for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not requested by
the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the administrative
penalty, the person giving notice may request in the notice to the alleged
violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation resulting in the
alleged violation and may provide that if the alleged violator corrects the
situation resulting in the alleged violation within the time specified in the
notice, the payment of the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the City, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the City, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the City for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
APPENDIX
NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                 
of the City Code relating
to                                                                                                                                     
.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $         for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   2010 Supp.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash or money
order to the City Treasurer.
Signed:                                                               
      (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   City Council meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Minutes
   
30.04   Order of business
   
30.05   Voting
   
30.06   Ordinance, resolutions, motions, petitions and communications
   
30.07   Suspension or amendment of rules
   
30.08   Compensation of Mayor and Council Members
   
30.09   Compensation of officers and employees
   
30.10   Quorum for conducting business
   
30.11   Fees and charges
   
30.12   Application of state laws
§ 30.01 CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held
at least once each month, at a date, time and place as established by the City
Council. Any regular meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next
following business day at the same time and place. All meetings, including
special and adjourned meetings, shall be held in the city hall unless the City
Council decides otherwise at a prior meeting, or meeting in the city hall is
impossible.
   (B)   Public meetings. All City Council meetings, including special,
emergency and adjourned meetings and meetings of City Council committees, as
well as meetings of City Commissions and Boards, shall be conducted in
accordance with the Minnesota Open Meeting Law, M.S. Ch. 13D, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City
Council. In the absence of the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside. In the
absence of both, the City Clerk shall call the meeting to order and shall
preside until the Council Members present at the meeting choose one of their
number to act temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce any
rules of procedure adopted by the City Council, and determine without debate,
subject to the final decision of the City Council on appeal, all questions of
procedure and order.
   (C)   Appeal procedure. Any member may appeal to the City Council a ruling
of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once
solely on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain the
ruling, but no other Council Member shall participate in the discussion. The
appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present, including the presiding officer.
§ 30.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Generally. Minutes of each City Council meeting shall be kept by the
City Clerk or, in the City Clerk's absence, by the Deputy City Clerk. In the
absence of both, the presiding officer shall appoint a secretary pro tem.
Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be recorded in full in the minutes
if they appear in other permanent records of the City Clerk and can be
accurately identified from the description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten
form, shall be signed by the City Clerk, and copies thereof shall be delivered
to each Council Member as soon as practicable after the meeting. At the next
regular City Council meeting following the delivery, approval of the minutes
shall be considered by the City Council. The minutes need not be read aloud,
but the presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections. If there
is no objection to a proposed addition or correction, it may be made without a
vote of the City Council. If there is an objection, the City Council shall vote
upon the addition or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the
minutes shall stand approved.
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the City Council shall convene at
the time and place appointed therefor. City Council business shall be conducted
in the following order unless varied by the presiding officer or by-laws or
other procedures adopted by Council resolution:
      (1)   Call to order.
      (2)   Roll call.
      (3)   Approval of minutes.
      (4)   Consent agenda.
      (5)   Public hearings.
      (6)   Petitions, requests, and communications.
      (7)   Ordinances and resolutions.
      (8)   Reports of officers, boards, and committees.
      (9)   Unfinished business.
    (10)   New business.
    (11)   Miscellaneous.
      (12)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Petitions and agenda. Petitions and other papers addressed to the City
Council shall be read or copies distributed by the City Clerk upon presentation
of the same to the City Council. All persons desiring to present new business
before the City Council shall inform the City Clerk thereof at least 72 hours
before new business is to be heard. The City Clerk may prepare an agenda of the
new business for submission to the City Council on or before the time of the
next regular meeting.
§ 30.05 VOTING.
   The votes of the Council Members on any question may be taken in any manner
which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes of the
Council Members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each Council Member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except
for payments of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute. If any Council
Member is present but does not vote, the minutes, as to his or her name, shall
be marked “Present-Not Voting.”
§ 30.06 ORDINANCE, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the City Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk,
and filed by the City Clerk in the ordinance or resolution book. Proof of
publication of every ordinance shall be attached and filed with the ordinance.
   (B)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall give
the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or code number of the
ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. Each ordinance or
resolution amending an existing ordinance or resolution or part thereof shall
set forth in full each amended section or subdivision as it will read with the
amendment.
§ 30.07 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by a two-thirds vote of the members
present and voting.
§ 30.08 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The compensation of the Mayor and the compensation of each Council Member
shall be established from time to time by City Council ordinance pursuant to
M.S. § 415.11, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 30.09 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the city shall be compensated at a rate as
established from time to time by the City Council.
§ 30.10 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire City Council,
including the Mayor. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the City Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the City Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the City Council by
a majority vote of those present.
§ 30.11 FEES AND CHARGES.
   The City Council may enact an ordinance establishing those fees and charges
that are authorized by this code. Until that ordinance becomes effective, all
fees and charges established by ordinance or resolution prior to the adoption
of this code shall remain in effect. All fees and charges established by the
ordinance establishing fees and charges may be amended from time to time by
amendment of that ordinance.
§ 30.12 APPLICATION OF STATE LAWS.
   The provisions of the Government Data Practices Act, M.S. Ch. 13, the
Opening Meeting Law, M.S. Ch. 13D, and the laws relating to Gifts to Local
Officials, M.S. § 471.895, as these laws may be amended from time to time,
apply to the City Council and all boards and commissions of this city and their
members.
2023 Supp.
CHAPTER 31: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Police Department
   
31.01   Police Department continued
   
31.02   Chief of Police
   
31.03   Duties of police
   
31.04   Uniform and badge
   
31.05   Reserve officers
Fire Department
   
31.20   Fire Department continued; appointment of officers
   
31.21   Duties of Chief
   
31.22   [Reserved]
   
31.23   Records
   
31.24   Practice drills
   
31.25   Assistant Chief
   
31.26   Firefighters
   
31.27   [Reserved]
   
31.28   Compensation
   
31.29   Interference with Fire Department
   
31.30   Policies and procedures
Planning Commission
   
31.45   Establishment of the Planning Commission
   
31.46   Composition
   
31.47   Organization, meetings, minutes and expenditures
   
31.48   Powers and duties; comprehensive plan
Advisory Park and Recreation Board
   
31.50   Advisory Park and Recreation Board
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT CONTINUED.
   (A)   If the city has a Police Department at the time this code is adopted,
then the Department of the city is hereby continued. If the city does not have
a Police Department at the time of the adoption of this code, then at any time
after the code is adopted, the City Council may by resolution create a Police
Department, which shall be organized and administered as provided for by this
code. The City Council may at any time determine by resolution to discontinue
the existence of a Police Department and provide for the enforcement of state
laws and city ordinances by other means. The head of the Police Department
shall be known as the Chief of Police and the number of additional members of
the Police Department, together with their ranks and titles, shall be
determined by the City Council by resolution. The compensation to be paid to
members of the Police Department shall be fixed by the City Council. Members of
the Police Department shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   All police officers shall meet the minimum standards for licensing as
a peace officer as established by the Minnesota Peace Officers Standards and
Training Board and have a current and valid peace officer license at the time
of appointment. All police officers shall retain this license during their
employment as a police officer with the city and will be subject to discharge
if the license is suspended, revoked or becomes invalid for any reason. In
addition, all police officers must have a valid Minnesota vehicle operator's
license and must be insurable as a vehicle driver by the city's automobile
insurance carrier.
§ 31.02 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the Police
Department and its members. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the
proper training and discipline of the members of the Police Department. The
Chief of Police shall be responsible for the keeping of adequate records and
shall report to the City Council on the needs of the Police department and its
work. Every member of the Police department is subordinate to the Chief of
Police and shall obey the instructions of the Chief of Police and any superior
officer. The City Council may designate one of the police officers as Acting
Chief, who shall have all the powers and duties of the Chief of Police during
the absence or disability of the Chief of Police.
§ 31.03 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department are authorized to enforce the laws
applicable to the city, bring violators before the court, and make complaints
for offenses coming to their knowledge. Members of the Police Department are
authorized to serve processes on behalf of the city and shall serve those
notices as may be required by the City Council or other authority. When the
city is not a party to the proceedings involved in the process or notice, the
officer shall collect the same fees as provided by law. All fees shall be paid
into the city treasury.
§ 31.04 UNIFORM AND BADGE.
   Each member of the Police Department shall, while on duty, wear a suitable
badge and uniform furnished by the city, except that the Chief of Police may
authorize the performance of specific duties while not in uniform. When a
member terminates membership in the Police Department, the member shall
immediately deliver to the city the badge, uniform and all other property of
the city.
§ 31.05 RESERVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may appoint, for a specified time, as many reserve
officers as may be necessary. Reserve officers shall be subordinate to the
Chief of Police. Under the provisions of M.S. § 626.84, Subd. 1(e), as it may
be amended from time to time, a RESERVE OFFICER is an individual whose services
are utilized by a law enforcement agency to provide supplementary assistance at
special events, traffic or crowd control, and administrative or clerical
assistance. A reserve officer's duties shall not include enforcement of the
general criminal laws of the state, and the reserve officer does not have full
powers of arrest or authorization to carry a firearm on duty.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, or City Council if there is no Police Chief, may
appoint, for a specified time, as many parking enforcement officers pursuant to
M.S. § 168B.035 Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time, as may be
necessary. The parking enforcement officers shall be subordinate to the Chief
of Police, if there is one, or the City Clerk. A PARKING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER is
an individual whose services are utilized by a law enforcement agency to
provide parking enforcement and administrative or clerical assistance. A
parking enforcement officer’s duties shall not include enforcement of the
general criminal laws of the state, and the parking enforcement officer does
not have full powers of arrest or authorization to carry a firearm on duty.
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.20 FIRE DEPARTMENT CONTINUED; APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   If, at the time of the adoption of this code, the city has a Fire
Department, there is continued in this city a Fire Department. If the city, at
the time of the adoption of this code, does not have a Fire Department, the
City Council may by resolution create a Fire Department subject to the
provisions of this code. All Fire Departments are established under the
authority of state law, M.S. § 412.221, Subd. 17, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (B)   All officers of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the City
Council. If one of the officers duly appointed shall resign his or her office,
be removed from office by the City Council, or is deceased during his or her
term of office, the successor shall be duly appointed by the City Council as
soon as is practical and no later than two weeks from the time the position
becomes open. The officer so appointed is so appointed for any period of the
unexpired term of the vacated office.
   (C)   Firefighters and probationary firefighters shall be appointed by the
City Council upon recommendation by the Chief of the Fire Department. The
process of recruitment, selection, appointment and termination of firefighters
and probationary firefighters shall be at the discretion of the city council.
   (D)   As required by state law, M.S. § 412.241, as it may be amended from
time to time, the City Council shall have full authority over the financial
affairs of the Fire Department, and shall provide for the collection of all
revenues and other assets, the auditing and settlement of accounts, and the
safekeeping and disbursement of public money. This division does not apply to
the funds of any Fire Relief Association.
§ 31.21 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Chief shall have control of all fire fighting apparatuses and shall be
responsible for their care and condition. The Chief shall make a report semi-
annually to the City Council at its meeting in March and in September as to the
condition of the equipment and needs of the Fire Department. The Chief may
submit additional reports and recommendations at any meeting of the City
Council, and he or she shall report each suspension by him or her of a member
of the Fire Department at the first meeting of the City Council following the
suspension. The Chief shall be responsible for the proper training and
discipline of the members of the Fire Department, and may suspend any member
for refusal or neglect to obey orders pending final action by the City Council
on his or her discharge or retention.
§ 31.22 [RESERVED]
§ 31.23 RECORDS.
   The Chief shall keep in convenient form a record of all fires. The record
shall include the time of the alarm, location of fire, cause of fire, if known,
type of building, name of owner or tenant, purpose for which occupied, value of
building and contents, members of the Fire Department responding to the alarm
and other information as he or she may deem advisable or as may be required
from time to time by the City Council or state law or regulation.
§ 31.24 PRACTICE DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief, when the weather permits, to hold
practice drills for the Fire Department and to give the firefighters
instruction in approved methods of fire fighting and fire prevention.
§ 31.25 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence or disability of the Chief of the Fire Department, the
Assistant Chief shall perform all functions and exercise all of the authority
of the Chief.
§ 31.26 FIREFIGHTERS.
   Firefighters shall not be less than 18 years of age and able bodied. They
shall become members of the Fire Department only after a 12-month probationary
period. The City Council may require that each candidate, before he or she may
become a probationary firefighter, must possess certain minimum height, weight,
education, mental and physical health requirements, and any other
qualifications which may be specified by the City Council.
§ 31.27 [RESERVED]
§ 31.28 COMPENSATION.
   The members and officers of the Fire Department shall receive compensation
as provided by the City Council.
§ 31.29 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or make, or cause to be given or
made, an alarm of fire without probable cause, or to neglect or refuse to obey
any reasonable order of the Chief or other firefighter at a fire, or to
interfere with the Fire Department in the discharge of its duties.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.30 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Fire Department may adopt policies and procedures for the operation of
the department, which shall be effective upon approval by the City Council. Any
provision of these policies and procedures, which may be called a Constitution
and Bylaws, which is inconsistent with state and federal law, including the
Veterans Preference Act, Minnesota Human Rights Act, and state laws requiring
the City Council to control Fire Department Finances, shall be unenforceable
and void.
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.45 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   If, at the time this code is adopted, the city has a Planning Commission,
the Planning Commission for the city is hereby continued. If the city did not
have a Planning Commission at the time of the adoption of this code, the City
Council may at any time determine to establish a Planning Commission by
appointing members to the Planning Commission as provided in §
31.46 of this code. To the extent that any provisions of §§
31.45 to
31.48 of this code are inconsistent with any provisions of Titles XV or XVII,
the provisions of those titles shall prevail. The Planning Commission shall be
the city planning agency authorized by M.S. § 462.354(1), as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 31.46 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members from the
resident population of the city to be appointed by the City Council. The
appointees shall be appointed to serve staggered terms of three years, except
as noted below, commencing on the first day of January in the year of
appointment. Upon expiration of a term, the appointee shall continue until
reappointed or a successor is appointed. Absences from any three meetings in a
year, unless excused in advance by the Chair, constitutes a vacancy. In the
event of any vacancy, the City Council, shall appoint a person to complete the
unexpired term.
   (B)   One member may be a Council Member or the City Clerk, to be appointed
by the City Council. This member shall serve for a one year term, to expire on
December 31 of each year.
   (C)   Other persons may serve in an ex officio capacity as the City Council
may, in its discretion, deem appropriate.
   (D)   Each of the regular Planning Commission members shall have equal
voting privileges. Any member may be removed for cause by majority vote of the
City Council upon written charge and after a public hearing.
§ 31.47 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS, MINUTES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   At the first regular meeting in January, the Planning Commission shall
elect a Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson and a Secretary from among its
appointed members, each for a term of one year. The Planning Commission may
create and fill other offices as it may determine is necessary.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one meeting each month at
the time and place as they may fix by resolution. Special meetings may be
called at any time by the Chairperson, or in the case of the Chairperson's
absence, by the Vice-Chairperson.
   (C)   Written minutes of meetings shall be kept and filed with the City
Clerk prior to the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting, but shall be
subject to the approval at the next Planning Commission meeting.
   (D)   No expenditures by the Planning Commission shall be made unless and
until authorized for the purpose by the City Council.
§ 31.48 POWERS AND DUTIES; COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   Generally. The Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties
given to city planning agencies generally by law, including the authority to
conduct public hearings as directed by the City Council or city policy. The
Planning Commission shall also exercise the duties conferred upon it by this
code. It shall be the purpose of the Planning Commission to prepare and adopt a
comprehensive plan for the physical development of the city, including proposed
public buildings, street arrangements and improvements, efficient design of
major thoroughfares for moving of traffic, parking facilities, public utilities
services, parks and playgrounds, a general land use plan and other matters
relating to the physical development of the city. This plan may be prepared in
sections, each of which shall relate to a comprehensive plan program. After the
City Council has adopted the comprehensive plan, the Planning Commission shall
periodically, but at least every five years, review the comprehensive plan and
any ordinances or programs implementing the plan.
   (B)   Means of executing plan. Upon the adoption of a comprehensive plan or
any section thereof, it shall be the concern of the Planning Commission to
recommend to the City Council reasonable and practical means for putting into
effect the plan or section thereof in order that it will serve as a pattern and
guide for the orderly physical development of the city and as a basis for
judging the timely disbursements of funds to implement the objective. Means of
effectuating the plan shall, among other things, consist of a zoning ordinance,
subdivision regulations, capital improvement programming and technical review,
and recommendations of matters referred to the Planning Commission by the City
Council.
   (C)   Zoning ordinance. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 4, as it may be
amended from time to time, the Planning Commission shall review all proposed
amendments to the zoning ordinance, conduct public hearings as directed by the
City Council or city policy, and make recommendations to the City Council
concerning zoning ordinance amendments and their relation to the city
comprehensive plan and other land use controls. The Planning Commission shall
report recommendations to the City Council for action.
   (D)   Conditional permits. The Planning Commission may make recommendations
on all requests for a conditional use permit under the terms of the zoning
ordinance and may conduct public hearings as directed by the City Council or
city policy. The Planning Commission shall report its recommendations to the
City Council for action.
   (E)   Interim Use Permits. The Planning Commission may make recommendations
on all requests for an interim use permit under the terms of the zoning
ordinance and conduct public hearings as directed by the City Council or city
policy. The Planning Commission shall report its recommendations to the City
Council for action
   (F)   Subdivision regulations. The Planning Commission may make
recommendations in relation to the subdividing of land as prescribed by the
ordinance and may conduct public hearings as directed by the City Council or
city policy. The Planning Commission shall report its recommendations to the
City Council for action.
   (G)   Variances. All applications for variances may be referred to the
Planning Commission which may conduct public hearings as directed by the City
Council or city policy, and forwarded with or without recommendations directly
to the City Council, which shall have the powers of a Board of Appeals and
Adjustments as provided for in M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 6, as it may be amended
from time to time for its decision.
   (H) Official Map. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.359, subd. 2, as it may be amended
from time to time, after adoption of a major thoroughfare plan and community
facilities plan (which may be contained in the city comprehensive plan or
adopted separately), the Planning Commission, for the purpose of carrying out
the policies of the major thoroughfare plan and community facilities plan, may
prepare and recommend to the governing body a proposed official map covering
the entire municipality or any portion thereof. The official map or maps shall
be prepared in sufficient detail to permit establishment of the future
acquisition lines on the ground. In unplatted areas, a minimum of a centerline
survey shall have been made prior to the preparation of the final draft of the
official map. The accuracy of the future acquisition lines shown on the
official map shall be attested to by a licensed surveyor.
   (I)   Appeals to denials of zoning, land use or building permits based on
the official map. All appeals to denials of zoning, land use or building
permits based on the official map may be referred to the Planning Commission,
and forwarded with or without recommendations directly to the City Council. The
City Council shall have the powers of a Board of Appeals and Adjustments as
provided for in M.S. 462.359, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time
for its decision.
   (J)   Purchase and sale of real property. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.356, Subd.
2, as it may be amended from time to time, after adoption of a comprehensive
plan, if any, the Planning Commission shall review all proposed acquisitions or
disposals of publicly owned interests in real property within the city by the
municipality, or any special district or any agency thereof, or any other
political subdivision having jurisdiction within the municipality, and make
findings as to the compliance of the proposed acquisition or disposal of real
property with the comprehensive municipal plan. The City Council may by
resolution adopted by two-thirds vote dispense with the requirements of this
section when in its judgement it finds that the proposed acquisition or
disposal of real property has no relationship to the comprehensive municipal
plan.
   (K)   Capital improvements. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.356, Subd. 2, as it may
be amended from time to time, after adoption of a comprehensive plan, if any,
the Planning Commission shall review all proposed capital improvements within
the city by the municipality, or any special district or any agency thereof, or
any other political subdivision having jurisdiction within the municipality,
and make findings, as to the compliance of the proposed capital improvement
with the comprehensive municipal plan. The City Council may by resolution
adopted by two-thirds vote dispense with the requirements of this section when
in its judgment it finds that the proposed acquisition or disposal of real
property has no relationship to the comprehensive municipal plan.
   (L)   Comprehensive Plan amendments. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.355, Subds. 2
and 3, as it may be amended from time to time, after adoption of a
comprehensive plan, if any, the Planning Commission shall review all proposed
amendments to the comprehensive plan, hold at least one public hearing, and
make recommendations to the City Council on comprehensive plan amendments and
their relation to the city comprehensive plan and other land use controls. The
Planning Commission shall report its recommendations to the City Council for
action.
ADVISORY PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 31.50 ADVISORY PARK AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   If the city has an Advisory Park and Recreation or similar Board at
the time this code is adopted, that Board is hereby continued. If the city had
no Board but wishes to create one, it may do so by resolution, and the
provisions of this code will apply.
   (B)   The Board shall consist of five members from the resident population
of the city to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
The appointees shall be appointed to serve staggered terms of three years,
except as noted below, commencing on the first day of January in the year of
appointment. Upon expiration of a term, the appointee shall continue until
reappointed or a successor is appointed. Absences from any three meetings in a
year, unless excused in advance by the Chair, constitutes a vacancy. In the
event of any vacancy, the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall
appoint a person to complete the unexpired term.
   (C)   (1)   At the first regular meeting in January, the Board shall elect a
Chairperson, a Vice- Chairperson and a Secretary from among its appointed
members, each for a term of one year. The Board may create and fill other
offices as it may determine.
      (2)   The Board shall hold at least one meeting each month at the time
and place as they may fix by resolution. Special meetings may be called at any
time by the Chairperson, or in the case of the Chairperson's absence, by the
Vice-Chairperson.
      (3)   Written minutes of meetings shall be kept and filed with the City
Clerk prior to the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting, but shall be
subject to the approval at the next Board meeting.
      (4)   No expenditures by the Board shall be made unless and until
authorized for the purpose by the City Council.
   (D)   The Board will consult with the City Council and the Planning
Commission and shall be advisory to the City Council in matters relating to
park lands, park facilities, park and recreation programs and finances. The
Board may meet with various groups on matters relating to park and recreation
activities.
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Policy and purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
32.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
32.05   Local emergencies
   
32.06   Emergency regulations
   
32.07   Emergency management a government function
   
32.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Due to the possibility of the occurrence of disasters of unprecedented size
and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado, blizzard, destructive
winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from
hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in order to ensure that
preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with those disasters, and
generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect the public peace,
health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of the people of
this city, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. Emergency
management includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 32.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration and
operation of the emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction
and control of the Council. The emergency management organization shall conform
to and be consistent with, where applicable, all state and federal
requirements, including the National Incident Management System framework found
at 44 CFR part 201, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city's emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 32.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk. A copy shall be
kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours. Notice
of the existence of these regulations and their availability for inspection at
the City Clerk's Office shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the city
hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places in the affected area
as the Council shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the Council
may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.37, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he would otherwise
be entitled under this resolution or under the worker's compensation law, or
under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 32.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
      
51.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
52.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
53.   STORM WATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
      
54.   RATES AND CHARGES
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
50.01   Effectiveness
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Sanitation collection service required
   
50.04   Container required; placement
   
50.05   Meddling with trash receptacles prohibited
   
50.06   Containers to be kept sanitary and secure
   
50.07   Unauthorized private collections prohibited
   
50.08   Sanitation service: city options.
   
50.09   Removal of building materials
   
50.10   Prohibited acts
   
50.11   Nonresidential customers; container types; collection schedules
   
50.12   Manner of collection and transportation
   
50.13   Licensing for collection
   
50.14   Collection of leaves, trees or tree limbs
Cross-reference:
   Health and Safety; Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
§ 50.01 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The provisions of this chapter are not effective until the City Council has
complied with the notice and hearing requirements of M.S. § 115A.94, as it may
be amended from time to time.
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Organic refuse resulting from the preparation of food, and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   RUBBISH. All inorganic refuse matter such as tin cans, glass, paper, ashes
and the like.
§ 50.03 SANITATION COLLECTION SERVICE REQUIRED.
   Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or renting any premises or
any place where garbage or rubbish accumulates shall subscribe to a sanitation
collection service.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 CONTAINER REQUIRED; PLACEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person whose garbage and refuse is
collected by the sanitation collection service to provide a container or
containers for garbage and refuse, sufficient in size and number to accommodate
and securely keep all garbage and refuse that may accumulate between
collections. Garbage containers shall be watertight and constructed of a solid
and durable grade of metal, plastic, or paper material.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person whose garbage and refuse is
collected by the sanitation collection service to place their garbage
containers directly behind the curbline of the street abutting their property
or in the absence of a curb directly behind the ditch line abutting their
property. In no event shall containers be placed in the street or on the
sidewalk or in any manner placed where the containers will interfere with
vehicular or pedestrian traffic. It shall be the responsibility of the
subscriber to place the containers no earlier than 6:00 p.m. of the afternoon
preceding the collection day.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 MEDDLING WITH TRASH RECEPTACLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to meddle with garbage cans, trash or rubbish
receptacles or in any way pilfer, search or scatter contents of garbage cans or
rubbish receptacles in or upon any street or alley within the city limits.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to persons authorized by the city or
persons authorized by state or federal law to search or otherwise meddle with
trash receptacles.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 CONTAINERS TO BE KEPT SANITARY AND SECURE.
   All containers shall be kept clean and free from accumulation of any
substance remaining attached to the inside of the container which would attract
or breed flies, mosquitoes, or other insects. The area surrounding garbage
containers shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. The contents
of all receptacles shall be protected so that the wind cannot scatter the
contents over the streets, alleys or other property within the city. All
containers shall be securely closed in a manner as to prevent the scattering of
the contents and to make them inaccessible to insects, rodents and other
animals.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 UNAUTHORIZED PRIVATE COLLECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport garbage or refuse for
hire which has been collected from any premises within the city over any public
street within the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any person who at the time of the
activity is operating under a valid contract or franchise granted by the city
which authorizes that person to use the public streets to conduct that
activity.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.08 SANITATION SERVICE: CITY OPTIONS.
   The City Council may provide for sanitation collection services within the
city by use of city employees and vehicles, or it may grant licenses under the
terms and conditions of §
50.13, or it may contract with one or more contractors for the provision of
these services under the terms and conditions negotiated with the contractors,
except that the provisions for insurance under §
50.13(E) shall always apply. Where the city provides for collection by use of
city employees and city vehicles, the city shall establish a price structure
consistent with §
50.13(I) except as provided by M.S.§ 115A.9301 Subd. 3 as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 50.09 REMOVAL OF BUILDING MATERIALS.
   Waste from building operations, rock waste, building materials or other
refuse resulting from building or remodeling operations or resulting from a
general cleanup of vacant or improved property shall be removed by the building
contractor, owner or occupant of the building at his or her own expense. It
shall be unlawful for any person to place those materials in any dumpster or
other trash receptacle for disposal by the city or any agent or contractor of
the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep, throw or deposit any
garbage, trash, debris, stagnant water or dead animal into, upon or along any
public property or private property of another, except as may be specifically
provided by this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or otherwise in control of
any premises within the city to permit any of the conditions described in
division (A) to exist upon property owned or controlled by him or her after
having actual or constructive notice thereof.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place in any container any
material other than as specifically provided in this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or maintain garbage or
trash except as provided for by this chapter.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any burning match,
charcoal, ember, or other material in any container used for the disposal of
garbage.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.11 NONRESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS; CONTAINER TYPES; COLLECTION SCHEDULES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or person otherwise in charge of
multi-family, institutional or industrial premises within the city to cause all
garbage and trash accumulated on the premises to be placed in disposable
containers, or commercial-type containers. Commercial-type containers may be
used and may be placed at a location on the premises as arranged between the
customer and the collector, but subject to review by the city at any time.
   (B)   Disposable containers shall be placed at a location on the premises
which is readily accessible to the collector.
   (C)   The amount and character of garbage shall be considered in
establishing size of commercial containers and frequency of pickup. The city
shall have final authority to establish the size and frequency based on the
history of amount and type of garbage generated by the customer. The collection
and removal of garbage and trash from premises used for commercial,
institutional, or industrial purposes shall be made as often as necessary in
order to maintain the premises free of accumulations. Garbage, except dry trash
in contractor-supplied containers, shall be collected not less than one time
each week, except for roll-off containers which shall not be subject to this
provision so long as they are used solely for brush and dry trash.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.12 MANNER OF COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   The collection, removal and disposal of all garbage, trash and brush
shall be carried on in a systematic, efficient manner to keep the city in a
clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   All vehicles used for the collection and transportation of garbage and
trash shall be equipped with suitable covers which shall be used to prevent
blowing or scattering of refuse while garbage and trash are being transported
for disposal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.13 LICENSING FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to provide for a continuous system of refuse
collection and disposal in a manner which meets the needs and conveniences of
the residents of the city and in order to protect the area from the problems of
uncoordinated, unsanitary and improper solid waste disposal, the City Council
may determine that it is in the best interests of the residents of the city to
require licenses of persons collecting or hauling garbage and rubbish for hire,
reserving to the city the right and authority to contract with one or more
operators to provide these services.
   (B)   Licensing. No person may collect or haul garbage or rubbish within the
city without first obtaining a written license from the City Council. An
application for a license shall be submitted in writing to the City Clerk, and
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Description of the equipment which will be used within the city by
the applicant;
      (3)   A schedule of the rate that will be charged by the applicant for
the various categories of customers within the city;
      (4)   Evidence of compliance with the other applicable sections of this
chapter.
   (C)   Franchise. The City Council may exercise its reserved right to
contract with one or more operators for the collection of garbage and rubbish
within the city.
   (D)   Suspension of license or contract. A contract or license issued under
the provisions of this section may be revoked or suspended for a violation of
this chapter or other applicable regulations of law upon a showing that the
contractor or licensee has failed to comply with that regulation.
   (E)   Financial responsibility. The licensee or contractor shall be required
to procure (1) commercial general liability insurance in the minimum amount of
$2,000,000 per occurrence; (2) automobile liability insurance with a minimum
combined single limit of $2,000,000 for bodily injury and property damage
including coverage for owned, hired and non-owned automobiles; and (3) workers’
compensation insurance for all employees in accordance with the statutory
requirements in Minnesota. The licensee or contractor shall hold the city
harmless and agrees to defend and indemnify the city, and the city's employees
and agents, for any claims, damages, losses, and expenses related to the work
under the license or contract. The city shall be named as an additional insured
on the commercial general liability insurance and any umbrella/excess policy
for the services provided under the license or contract. The licensee's or
contractor's insurance shall be the primary insurance for the city and the
licensee or contractor shall provide a certificate of insurance which verifies
the existence of the insurance required and an endorsement of the city as an
additional insured. These insurance policies shall be for the full term of the
license or franchise and shall provide for the giving of ten days prior notice
to the city of the termination or cancellation of these policies or ten days’
notice for non-payment of premium. In case notice is received that any policies
will be terminated or cancelled, the license or contract shall be automatically
revoked on the termination or cancellation date unless the licensee or
contractor provides proof that such policies are still in effect or new
insurance has been obtained that meets the city’s insurance requirements.
   (F)   Design of equipment. All trucks or motor vehicles used by the licensee
or contractor shall be water-tight so as not to allow the leakage of liquids or
refuse while hauling the same and shall be covered with a covering to prevent
the scattering of its contents upon the public streets or private properties in
the city.
   (G)   Inspections. All vehicles used for garbage or rubbish shall be made
available for inspection within the city at the times and places as the City
Council may designate.
   (H)   Bond. The contractor or licensee may be required to furnish a surety
bond in an amount as the City Council deems necessary running to and approved
by the City Council, guaranteeing the franchisee's or licensee's faithful and
continuous performance of the terms of the franchise, license or contract and
of this chapter.
   (I)   Licensee requirements.
      (1)   Licensees must impose charges for the collection of garbage or
rubbish consistent with M.S. § 115A.93 Subd 3, as it may be amended from time
to time, that increase with the volume or weight of the garbage or rubbish
collected.
      (2)   Licensees must not impose any additional charges on customers who
recycle.
      (3)   Where a licensee imposes charges by volume instead of weight, the
licensee must establish a base unit size for an average small quantity
household and offer a multiple pricing system that ensures that the amounts of
waste generated in excess of the base unit amount are priced higher than the
base unit price.
§ 50.14 COLLECTION OF LEAVES, TREES OR TREE LIMBS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the collection for
hire by other persons of leaves, trees or tree limbs.
CHAPTER 51: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Control of sewers; administration of chapter
   
51.003   Building sewers; general requirements
   
51.004   Tampering with wastewater facilities
   
51.005   Cost of repairing or restoring sewers
General Regulations
   
51.015   Deposits of unsanitary manner prohibited
   
51.016   Discharge of wastewater or other polluted waters
   
51.017   Restrictions on wastewater disposal facilities
   
51.018   Installation of service connection to public sewer
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
51.035   Public sewer not available
   
51.036   Permits
   
51.037   Type, capacities, location and layout
   
51.038   Direct connection required
   
51.039   Operation and maintenance by owner
   
51.040   Application of subchapter
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.055   Restrictions on new connections
   
51.056   Building sewer permits
   
51.057   Costs and expenses
   
51.058   Separate building sewers required
   
51.059   Old building sewers; restrictions on use
   
51.060   Conformance to State Building and Plumbing Code requirements
   
51.061   Elevation below basement floor
   
51.062   Surface runoff or groundwater connections prohibited
   
51.063   Excavations
   
51.064   Licenses
Use of Public Services
   
51.080   Discharges of unpolluted water
   
51.081   Discharges of waters or wastes
   
51.082   Limited discharges
   
51.083   Discharges hazardous to life or constitute public nuisances
   
51.084   Increasing use of process water
   
51.085   Pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
51.086   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.087   Industrial wastes; installations
   
51.088   Industrial wastes; requirements
   
51.089   Measurements, tests and analyses of waters and wastes
   
51.090   Protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials
   
51.091   Permitting substance or matter to flow or pass into public sewers
   
51.092   Repairing service connection
   
51.093   Catch basin or waste traps required for motor vehicle washing or
servicing facilities
   
51.094   Special agreement and arrangement
User Rate Schedule for Charges
   
51.110   Charges generally
   
51.111   Purpose
   
51.112   Definitions
   
51.113   Establishment of a sewer service charge system
   
51.114   Determination of sewer service charges
   
51.115   Sewer service fund
   
51.116   Administration
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
51.130   Authorized employees permitted to enter all properties
   
51.131   Authorized employees obtaining information for industrial processes
   
51.132   Authorized employees to observe safety rules
   
51.133   Authorized employees permitted to enter all property with easements
 
   
51.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Safety; Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, being 33 USC 1251 et seq., as amended.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. This city or its representative thereof.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C, expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning three
feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
The term CITY when used herein may also be used to refer to the City Council
and its authorized representative.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and solid wastes resulting from industrial
or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the development,
recovery and processing of natural resources, as distinct from residential or
domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city's wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES or SDS permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under Section 405 of the Act (33 USC 1345) or
any regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 USC 6901
et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 USC 7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 USC 2601 et seq.), or more stringent state criteria applicable to the
method of disposal or use employed by the city.
   MAY. The term is permissive.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by those treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of those treatment facilities, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the
Act (33 USC 1317(b)).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Sections 402
and 405 of the Act (33 USC 1342 and 33 USC 1345).
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 287 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 287 mg/l.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than ½-inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is wastewater.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (3)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (4)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (5)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters
which are not admitted intentionally.
      (6)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, subsurface water, street wash
water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SHALL. The term is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not
limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   2014 Supp.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time for a disposal system as defined
by M.S. § 115.01, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of
the Act (33 USC 1317(a)).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city's wastewater disposal system.
   UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT. The person appointed by the City Council to
supervise the sewer and water systems of the city.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from that treatment.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
§ 51.002 CONTROL OF SEWERS; ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or other official designated by the City
Council shall have control and general supervision of all public sewers and
service connections in the city, and shall be responsible for administering the
provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and efficient public sewer
is maintained.
§ 51.003 BUILDING SEWERS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Building sewer construction shall meet the pertinent requirements of the
Minnesota State Building Code, which is those chapters of Minn. Rules
referenced in Minn. Rules part 1300.0050, as they may be amended from time to
time, and the Minnesota Plumbing Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 4714, as it may be
amended from time to time. The applicant shall notify the City Clerk when the
building sewer and connection is ready for inspection. The connection shall be
made under the supervision of the Building Official or the Building Official's
representative, if the city has adopted the State Building Code. If the city
has not adopted the State Building Code, the Utilities Superintendent shall
perform the inspection. If the city does not have a Utilities Superintendent,
an installer licensed under §
51.064 shall certify that the building sewer and connection comply with the
State Building Code. No backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected and approved, or until the certification has been received.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a
misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005 COST OF REPAIRING OR RESTORING SEWERS.
   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by that person, and may collect the
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 51.015 DEPOSITS OF UNSANITARY MANNER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the city's jurisdiction, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER OR OTHER POLLUTED WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the city's NPDES/SDS
permit.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.017 RESTRICTIONS ON WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is discharged,
and which is situated within the city and adjacent to any street, alley or
right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be located, a
public sanitary sewer of the city shall be required at the owner's expense to
install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in accordance with
provisions of this code within 365 days of the date the public sewer is
operational; provided, the public sewer is within 200 feet of the structure
generating the wastewater. All future buildings constructed on property
adjacent to the public sewer shall be required to immediately connect to the
public sewer. If sewer connections are not made pursuant to this section, an
official ten-day notice shall be served instructing the affected property owner
to make the connection.
Penalty, see §
51.999
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 51.035 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
51.018, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter and Minn. Rules Ch.
7080, Design Standards for Individual Subsurface Sewage Treatment Systems, as
they may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.036 PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. Prior to commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
signed by the city. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary to the city.
   (B)   Inspections. A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall
not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of
the city or its authorized representative. The city or its representative shall
be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and in any event,
the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice. The Utilities
Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city, bearing proper
credentials and identification, are authorized, with the permission of the
licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property within the
city, to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. If the licensee, owner, resident or other
person in control of property within the city does not permit the entrance to
the property, the city shall obtain a search warrant as provided for in §
10.20 before entering the property, except in emergency situations.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.037 TYPE, CAPACITIES, LOCATION AND LAYOUT.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of Minn. Rules Ch. 7080,
Individual Sewage Treatment Systems Program, as they may be amended from time
to time. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   (B)   Straight-pipe systems; noncompliance. A city inspector who discovers
the existence of a straight-pipe system may issue a noncompliance notice to the
owner of the straight-pipe system and forward a copy of the notice to the
Pollution Control Agency. The notice must state that the owner must replace or
discontinue the use of the straight-pipe system within ten months of receiving
the notice. If the owner does not replace or discontinue the use of the
straight-pipe system within ten months after the notice was received, the owner
of the straight-pipe system shall be subject to a Pollution Control Agency
administrative penalty of $500 per month of noncompliance beyond the ten-month
period. Administrative penalty orders may be issued for violations under this
subdivision, as provided in M.S. § 116.072, as it may be amended from time to
time. One-half of the proceeds collected from an administrative penalty order
issued for violating this subdivision shall be remitted to the local unit of
government with jurisdiction over the noncompliant straight-pipe system.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.038 DIRECT CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   At the time a public sewer becomes available to a property serviced by a
private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer within 365 days in compliance with this chapter, and within 365
days any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal
systems shall be cleaned of sludge. The bottom shall be broken to permit
drainage, and the tank or pit filled or may be removed.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.039 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE BY OWNER.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
§ 51.040 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or the
Minnesota Department of Health.
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.055 RESTRICTIONS ON NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any new connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited unless
sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities, including but
not limited to capacity for flow, BOD5 and suspended solids, as determined by
the Utilities Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.056 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections
with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (B)   Applications. Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or
authorized agent and the party employed to do the work, and shall state the
location, name of owner, street number of the building to be connected and how
occupied. No person shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits
of the building or property for which the service connection permit has been
given.
   (C)   Classes. There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: one for
residential and commercial service, and one for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or any other information considered
pertinent in the judgement of the city. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
   (D)   Inspection and connection. The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and inspection shall be made
under the supervision of the Utilities Superintendent or authorized
representative thereof.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.057 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.058 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer. The city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
connection.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.059 OLD BUILDING SEWERS; RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Utilities Superintendent or his
or her representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
§ 51.060 CONFORMANCE TO STATE BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of building
sewers and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements
of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. Cast iron pipe shall be used for a building sewer laid
within 50 feet of any well per Minnesota Public Health department requirements.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city. All connections shall be made
gastight and watertight, and verified by proper testing to prevent the
inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the city prior to installation.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 ELEVATION BELOW BASEMENT FLOOR.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.062 SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge water or cause to be discharged any
unpolluted waters such as storm water, ground water, roof run off, subsurface
drainage such as that from floor drains, sump pumps, cisterns, field tile or
any other recognizable source or any type of private, commercial or industrial
cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation having a roof drain system, surface
drain system, footing tile, swimming pool, ground water drain system or sump
pump now connected and/or discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall
disconnect and/or remove the same. Any disconnects or opening into the sanitary
sewer shall be closed or repaired in an effective, workmanlike manner, as
approved by the public works supervisor.
   (C)   Dwellings and other buildings and structures which require because of
the infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces and the like, a sump
pump system to discharge excess water shall have a permanently installed
discharge line which shall not at any time discharge water into the sanitary
sewer system. A permanent installation shall be one which provides for year
around discharge capability to either the outside of the dwelling, building or
structure, or is connected to the city storm sewer. It shall consist of a rigid
discharge line, without valves or quick connections for altering the path of
discharge, and if connected to the city storm sewer shall include a check
valve.
   (D)   Powers and authority of inspectors. Duly authorized employees or
representatives of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to determine the
nature of discharge into any public sewer or natural outlet in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. In lieu of having the city inspect their
property, any person or entity may furnish a certificate from a licensed
plumber certifying that their property is in compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Any person refusing to allow their property to be inspected or
refusing to furnish a plumbers certificate within 14 days of the date the duly
authorized city employees or representatives are denied admittance to their
property shall be subject to the surcharge hereafter provided for.
   (F)   At any future time, if the city has reason to suspect that an illegal
connection may exist in a premises, the owner, by written notice shall comply
with the provisions of (C) above.
   (G)   A surcharge of $100 per month may be imposed and added to every sewer
billing mailed to property owners who are not in compliance with this chapter.
The surcharge shall be added every month until the property is in compliance.
The City Council may grant waivers from the surcharges where strict enforcement
may cause undue hardship unique to the property or where the property owner was
scheduled for disconnection but cannot do so due to circumstances, such as
availability of the plumber or inclement weather.
§ 51.063 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.064 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. No person shall make a service connection with any public
sewer unless regularly licensed under this chapter to perform the work, and no
permit shall be granted to any person except a regularly licensed person. A
person licensed as a plumber by the State of Minnesota, or a person in the
ditch installing the pipe who has a card showing that they have completed a
program of training that incorporates the Plumbing Code installation
requirements, issued by either the Associated Builders and Contractors,
Laborers-Employers Cooperation Educational Trust, or Minnesota Utility
Contractors Association, is not subject to the licensing requirements of this
section.
   (B)   Application. Any person desiring a license to make a service
connection with public sewers shall apply in writing to the City Council with
satisfactory evidence that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in
the business and qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be
referred to the Utilities Superintendent for recommendations to the Council. If
approved by the Council, the license shall be issued by the City Clerk upon the
filing of a bond as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Issuance. No license shall be issued to any person until a policy of
insurance to the city, approved by the Council, is filed with the City Clerk
conditioned that the licensee will indemnify and save harmless the city from
all suits, accidents and damage that may arise by reason of any opening in any
street, alley or public ground made by the licensee or by those in the
licensee's employment for any purpose whatever, and that the licensee will
replace and restore the street and alley over that opening to the condition
existing prior to installation, adequately guard with barricades and lights,
and will keep and maintain the same to the satisfaction of the Utilities
Superintendent, and shall conform in all respects to any rules and regulations
of the Council relative thereto, and pay all fines that may be imposed on the
licensee by law.
   (D)   Fee. The license fee for making service connections shall be as
established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to
§
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time. All
licenses shall expire on December 31 of the license year unless the license is
suspended or revoked by the Council for cause.
   (E)   Suspension or revocation. The Council may suspend or revoke any
license issued under this subchapter for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
license.
      (2)   Incompetence of the licensee.
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this chapter or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections.
Penalty, see §
51.999
USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 51.080 DISCHARGES OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or caused to be discharged any water such as
stormwater, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or non-contact cooling
water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
those sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or
natural outlet on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a
discharge permit by the MPCA.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.081 DISCHARGES OF WATERS OR WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include but are not limited to gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene,
toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides.
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as but not limited to grease, garbage with particles greater
than ½-inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones,
hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders,
sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastic, asphalt
residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud
or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act (33 USC 1317(a)).
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.082 LIMITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, water or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works, treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and soil, vegetation and ground water, or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The Utilities Superintendent
may set limitations lower than limitations established in the regulations below
if, in his or her opinion, the more severe limitations are necessary to meet
the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
wastes, the Utilities Superintendent will give consideration to factors as the
quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, the city's NPDES/SDS permit, capacity of the sewage treatment plant,
degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Utilities Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein.
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not.
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined in §
51.001.
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
51.001 of this chapter. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food on the premises or when served by caterers.
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process such as but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      (7)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage or ground
water.
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended-solids such as but not
limited to fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of dissolved
solids such as but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate, in
quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal system.
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of half-life or concentration as
may exceed limits established by the Utilities Superintendent in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to the
degree that any material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater
treatment works is detrimental to treatment process, adversely impacts land
application, adversely effects receiving waters, or is in violation of
standards pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act (33 USC 1317(b)): Arsenic,
Cadmium, Copper, Cyanide, Lead, Mercury, Nickel, Silver, total Chromium, Zinc
and Phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by the city's wastewater
treatment system.
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body.
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
the materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of §
51.094.
§ 51.083 DISCHARGES HAZARDOUS TO LIFE OR CONSTITUTE PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
51.082, or which in the judgement of the Utilities Superintendent may have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment facilities, processes, or
equipment, receiving waters or soil, vegetation, and ground water, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act (33 USC 1317(b)) and
all amendments thereof;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating and
disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment shall
be made at the owner's expense and shall be subject to the review and approval
of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
§ 51.084 INCREASING USE OF PROCESS WATER.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in §§
51.081 and
51.082, or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any
state requirements.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.085 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation at the expense of the owner.
§ 51.086 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Utilities Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
§
51.082(B)(2), any flammable wastes as specified in §
51.081(A), sand or other harmful ingredients; except that interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by
appropriate means, and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the Utilities Superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collecting materials not performed by the owner's personnel must
be performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.087 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; INSTALLATIONS.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure, or control
manhole, with necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes. The structure
shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance
with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed by the owner
at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be safe and
accessible at all times.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.088 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide laboratory
measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate compliance
with this chapter and any special condition for discharge established by the
city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number,
type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses to be performed by the
owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry must supply a complete
analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that
compliance with federal, state and local standards are being met. The owner
shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at
times and in the manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the
expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city. At
those times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take
measurements and supplies for analysis by an independent laboratory.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.089 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES OF WATERS AND WASTES.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Utilities
Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.090 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE OF PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a sanitary
sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where necessary,
facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner's expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Utilities Superintendent for review and approval prior to
construction of the facility. Review and approval of the plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the
user's facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users
shall notify the Utilities Superintendent immediately upon having a slug or
accidental discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of this chapter
to enable countermeasures to be taken by the Utilities Superintendent to
minimize damage to the wastewater treatment works. The notification will not
relieve any user of any liability for any expense, loss or damage to the
wastewater treatment system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on
the city on account thereof under any state and federal law. Employers shall
ensure that all employees who may cause or discover a discharge are advised of
the emergency notification procedure.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.091 PERMITTING SUBSTANCE OR MATTER TO FLOW OR PASS INTO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person having charge of any building or other premises which drains into
the public sewer shall permit any substance or matter which may form a deposit
or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30 days after
receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a suitable and
sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists, shall clean
out, repair or alter the same, and perform other work as the Utilities
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner's refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair, or alter the same
after the period of 30 days, the Utilities Superintendent may cause the work to
be completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.092 REPAIRING SERVICE CONNECTION.
   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or out
of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause the work to be done as the
Utilities Superintendent may direct. Each day after 30 days that a person
neglects or fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this
section, and the Utilities Superintendent may then cause the work to be done,
and recover from the owner or agent the expense thereof by an action in the
name of the city.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.093 CATCH BASIN OR WASTE TRAPS REQUIRED FOR MOTOR VEHICLE WASHING OR
SERVICING FACILITIES.
   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing facility
shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times a catch basin
or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil, dirt or any
mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.094 SPECIAL AGREEMENT AND ARRANGEMENT.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern; provided, that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and the city's NPDES/SDS Permit limitations are not violated.
USER RATE SCHEDULE FOR CHARGES
§ 51.110 CHARGES GENERALLY.
   Each user of sewer service shall pay the charges applicable to the type of
service, and in accordance with the provisions set forth in this subchapter.
§ 51.111 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the subchapter is to provide for sewer service charges to
recover costs associated with operation, maintenance and replacement to ensure
effective functioning of the city's wastewater treatment system, and local
capital costs incurred in the construction of the city's wastewater treatment
system.
§ 51.112 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works such as billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
When used herein the term CITY may also refer to the City Council or its
authorized representative.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct the facilities.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
      (1)   (a)   Entities that discharge into a publicly owned wastewater
treatment works liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in
industrial or manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural
resources. These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented under one of the following divisions:
             Division A.   Agriculture, forestry and fishing
            Division B.   Mining
            Division D.   Manufacturing
            Division E.   Transportation, communications, electric, gas, and
sanitary sewers
            Division I.   Services
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be
considered to have the following characteristics: BOD5 - less than 287 mg/l;
Suspended solids - less than 287 mg/l.
      (2)   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   MAY. The term is permissive.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design or
useful life, whichever is longer of the treatment works, and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed. The term includes
replacement.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which the works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service, and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users of the city's wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the sewer service fund will be for operation, maintenance and replacement costs
and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
   SHALL. The term is mandatory.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act
(33 USC 1317(a)), which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism,
will cause adverse effects.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on a user of a treatment works for the user's
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   USERS. Those residential, commercial, governmental, institutional and
industrial establishments which are connected to the public sewer collection
system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community, also referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
§ 51.113 ESTABLISHMENT OF A SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a Sewer Service Charge System whereby all
revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be
used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance and
replacement and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation, maintenance,
and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the users proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
   (C)   Each user shall pay debt service charges to retire local capital costs
as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be determined and fixed in a “Sewer Service Charge System”
developed according to the provisions of this subchapter. The Sewer Service
Charge System shall be the system enacted prior to the adoption of this code.
The Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code may be amended from time to time to include subsequent
changes in sewer service rates and charges.
    (E)   Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a separate
fund known as “The Sewer Service Fund.” Income from revenues collected will be
expended to off-set the cost of operation, maintenance and equipment
replacement for the facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditure.
   (F)   Sewer service charges and the sewer service fund will be administrated
in accordance with the provisions of §
51.116.
   (G)   A connection fee as fixed in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time, shall
be charged to each user connecting a new service to the Sanitary Sewer System.
The connection fee shall be due and payable within 90 days of the date the
connection is completed.
   (H)   A sewer availability charge, as fixed in the ordinance establishing
fees and charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time may be
charged.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.114 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
    The sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be as established by ordinance or resolution prior to the
adoption of this code, unless amended or modified in the Ordinance Establishing
Fees and Charges, adopted pursuant to §
30.11, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time. Charges made for
service rendered shall conform to M.S. § 444.075, Subd. 3a, as it may be
amended from time to time. All accounts shall be carried in the name of the
owner who personally, or by his authorized agent, applied for such service. The
property owner shall be liable for all sewer services supplied to the property,
whether he or she is occupying the property or not.
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.115 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a “Sewer Service Fund” as an income fund
to receive all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and
construction of the wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special
charges, fees and assessments intended to retire construction debt. The city
also establishes the following accounts as income and expenditure accounts
within the sewer service fund:
      (1)   Operation and maintenance account.
      (2)   Equipment replacement account.
      (3)   Debt retirement account.
   (B)   All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the City
Clerk separate and apart from all other funds of the city. Funds received by
the sewer service fund shall be transferred to the “Operation and Maintenance
Account,” the “Equipment Replacement Account,” and the “Debt Retirement
Account” in accordance with state and federal regulations and the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient to
ensure adequate replacement throughout the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and
apart in the “Equipment Replacement Account” and dedicated to affecting
replacement costs. Interest income generated by the “Equipment Replacement
Account” shall remain in the “Equipment Replacement Account.”
   (D)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the “Operation
and Maintenance Account.”
§ 51.116 ADMINISTRATION.
   The sewer service charge system and sewer service fund shall be
administrated according to the following provisions:
   (A)   The City Clerk shall maintain a proper system of accounts suitable for
determining the operation and maintenance, equipment replacement and debt
retirement costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish the City Council
with a report of those costs annually in December. The City Council shall
annually determine whether or not sufficient revenue is being generated for the
effective operation, maintenance, replacement and management of the treatment
works, and whether sufficient revenue is being generated for debt retirement.
The Council will also determine whether the user charges are distributed
proportionately to each user in accordance with §
51.113(B). The city shall thereafter, but not later than the end of the year,
reassess and as necessary revise the Sewer Service Charge System then in use to
ensure the proportionality of the user charges and to ensure the sufficiency of
funds to maintain the capacity and performance to which the facilities were
constructed, and to retire the construction debt.
   (B)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, each user will be
notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the
sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance and replacement.
   (C)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the City Clerk
shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary to document
compliance with the Sewer Service Charge System adopted.
   (D)   Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on a monthly, bi-
monthly or quarterly basis as designated by Council, succeeding the period for
which the service was rendered and shall be due ten days from the date of
rendering. Any bill not paid in full 30 days after the due date will be
considered delinquent. At that time the city shall notify the delinquent owner/
occupant in writing regarding the delinquent bill and subsequent penalty. The
penalty shall be computed at 10% of the original bill and shall be increased
the same 10% for every quarter the bill is outstanding. Disconnection of
services for late payment shall follow the procedures established in
Chapter 54.
   (E)   The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
their premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefore to the
city.
   (F)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxics or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger of the wastes,
at no expense to the city.
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 51.130 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTIES.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, are authorized, with the
permission of the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
property within the city, to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observations, measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to the
discharges to the city's sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
property within the city does not permit the entrance to the property, the city
shall obtain an administrative search warrant as provided for in §
10.20 before entering the property, except in emergency situations.
§ 51.131 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES OBTAINING INFORMATION FOR INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are
authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a
direct bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential; however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
§ 51.132 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO OBSERVE SAFETY RULES.
   While performing necessary work on private properties, the Utilities
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
property owner shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees
and the city shall indemnify the property owner against loss or damage to its
property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.087.
§ 51.133 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTY WITH EASEMENTS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of §§
51.001 through
51.094 and
51.130 through
51.133 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) of this section shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. Each day in which any violation occurs shall be deemed as a separate
offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.001 through
51.094 and
51.130 through
51.133 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned by the city by reason of that violation.
   (B)   (1)   Each and every sewer service charge levied by and pursuant to §§
51.110 through
51.116 is made a lien upon the lot or premises served, and all charges which
are on October 31 of each year past due and delinquent shall be certified to
the County Auditor by November 29, for collection as provided for in
Chapter 54. Nothing in §§
51.110 through
51.116 shall be held or construed as in any way stopping or interfering with
the right of the city to levy as taxes or assessments against any premises
affected any delinquent or past due sewer service charges.
      (2)   As an alternative to levying a lien, the city may, at its
discretion, file suit in a civil action to collect amounts as are delinquent
and due against the occupant, owner or user of the real estate, and shall
collect as well all attorney's fees incurred by the city in filing the civil
action. Attorney's fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
      (3)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable
to recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner or user of
the real estate being serviced by the treatment works shall be liable for
interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate of 8% per annum.
CHAPTER 52: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   General operation
   
52.02   Use of water service
   
52.03   Use to circumvent chapter prohibited
   
52.04   Damage to water system
   
52.05   Connections beyond city boundaries
   
52.06   Connection to system required; use of private wells
   
52.07   Use of water for air conditioning; permits
   
52.08   Use of water from fire hydrants; temporary connections
   
52.09   Water deficiency, shut off and use restrictions
Water Regulations
   
52.25   Supply from one service
   
52.26   Tapping of mains restricted
   
52.27   Repairs
   
52.28   Abandoned or unused services
   
52.29   Disconnection permit
   
52.30   Service pipes
   
52.31   Excavation and construction requirements
   
52.32   Connection to other water supplies restricted
   
52.33   Water connections; applications and charges
   
52.34   Location of curb stop box
   
52.35   Water meters
Rates and Charges
   
52.50   Water unit
   
52.51   Rates, fees and charges generally
   
52.52   Water service billing; change of address
   
52.53   Water rates
   
52.54   Payment of charges; late payment; collection
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.70   Supervision by Utilities Superintendent; licensing
   
52.71   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.72   Discontinuance of service
   
52.73   Authorized employees to turn water on and off
   
52.74   Liability for expense, loss or damage
Cross-reference:
   Assessable current services, see §
92.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 GENERAL OPERATION.
   The city does hereby make provision for the establishment of a municipal
water system (hereinafter called the water system) to be operated as a public
utility.
§ 52.02 USE OF WATER SERVICE.
   No person other than a city employee shall uncover or make or use any water
service installation connected to the city water system except in the manner
provided by this chapter. No person shall make or use any installation contrary
to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03 USE TO CIRCUMVENT CHAPTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit water from the water system to be used for any
purpose to circumvent this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04 DAMAGE TO WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall remove or damage any structure,
appurtenance, or part of the water system or fill or partially fill any
excavation or move any gate valve used in the water system.
   (B)   No person shall make any connection of an electrical welder to the
city water main, appurtenance or service or use an electric welder for the
purpose of thawing frozen water mains, appurtenances or services.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 CONNECTIONS BEYOND CITY BOUNDARIES.
   Where water mains of the city are in any street or alley adjacent to or
outside the corporate limits of the city, the City Council may issue permits to
the owners or occupants of properties adjacent or accessible to the water main
to make proper water service pipe connections with the water mains of the city
and to be supplied with water in conformity with the applicable provisions of
this chapter and subject to any contract for the supply of water between the
city and any other city. The water meter pit will be in the city limits. The
city will own and maintain the water meter. The user will pay for the original
meter in the connection fee.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED; USE OF PRIVATE WELLS.
   (A)   Except where municipal water is not available, it shall be unlawful to
construct, reconstruct, or repair any private water system which is designed or
intended to provide water for human consumption. Private wells, to provide
water for other than human consumption, may be constructed, maintained and
continued in use after connection is made to the water system; provided, there
is no means of cross- connection between the private well and municipal water
supply at any time. Hose bibbs that will enable the cross-connection of the two
systems are prohibited on internal piping of the well system supply. Where both
private and city systems are in use, outside hose bibbs shall not be installed
on both systems.
   (B)   All new homes or buildings shall connect to the municipal water system
if water is available to the property. At the time as municipal water becomes
available to existing homes or buildings, a direct connection shall be made to
the public system within a period of time as determined by the City Council. If
the connection is not made pursuant to this chapter, a charge shall be made in
an amount established by §
52.51.
   (C)   Where new homes or buildings do not have water available to the
property, the city shall determine whether and under what conditions the
municipal water system will be extended to serve the property.
   (D)   If the well is not to be used after the time a municipal water
connection is made:
      (1)   The well pump and tank shall be disconnected from all internal
piping;
      (2)   The casing shall be filled with sandy soil from the bottom to a
point eight feet from the top;
      (3)   The remaining eight feet shall be filled with concrete to the floor
level and the well casing cut off as close to the floor level as possible;
      (4)   Within 30 days after the municipal water connection is made, the
owner or occupant must advise the City Utilities Superintendent that the well
has been sealed.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, all well abandonment shall be done
in accordance with M.S. §§ 103I.301 to 103I.345 and Minn. Rules Ch. 4725, Wells
and Borings, as it may be amended from time to time. All well sealing shall be
performed by a professional licensed well driller trained in well abandonment.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07 USE OF WATER FOR AIR CONDITIONING; PERMITS.
   (A)   All air conditioning systems which are connected directly or
indirectly with the public water system must be equipped with water conserving
and water regulating devices and a backflow device as approved by the City
Engineer or City Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   Permits shall be required for the installation of all air conditioning
systems to the public water system. The fee shall be established pursuant to §
52.51.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08 USE OF WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS; TEMPORARY CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Use of fire hydrants. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person,
unless authorized by the Public Works Director or Public Utilities Department,
shall operate fire hydrants or interfere in any way with the water system
without first obtaining a permit to do so from the city as follows:
      (1)   A permit to use a fire hydrant shall be issued for each individual
job or contract and for a minimum of 30 days and for the additional 30 day
period as the city shall determine. The permit shall state the location of the
hydrant and shall be for the use of that hydrant and none other.
      (2)   The user shall make an advance cash deposit to guarantee payment
for water used and to cover breakage and damage to the hydrant and meter, which
shall be refunded upon expiration of the permit, less applicable charges for
use.
      (3)   The user shall relinquish the use of the hydrant to authorized city
employees in emergency situations.
      (4)   The user shall pay a rental charge as established pursuant to §
52.51 for each day including Sundays and legal holidays, and a fee as
established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to
§
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time for each
1,000 gallons of water used.
      (5)   Connections to a public water supply to fill tankers must follow
backflow prevention standards. The connection will have a reduced pressure zone
backflow device.
   (B)   Temporary connection to fire hydrants. An owner of a private water
system may make a temporary above ground connection to a fire hydrant, subject
to the time periods, conditions, and payment specified in §
52.51. In addition, the method of connection to the private system shall
conform to all existing requirements of this chapter and city ordinance and the
type of meter used shall meet the approval of the Utilities Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 WATER DEFICIENCY, SHUT OFF AND USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The city shall not be liable for any deficiency or failure in the
supply of water to consumers, whether occasioned by shutting the water off for
the purpose of making repairs or connections or from any other cause
whatsoever. In case of fire, or alarm of fire, or in making repairs of
construction of new works, water may be shut off without notice at any time and
kept off as long as necessary. In addition, the City Council shall have the
right to impose reasonable restrictions on the use of the city water system in
emergency situations. For non-payment of charges, water service may be
discontinued according to the procedures established in §
52.72.
   (B)   Restricted hours. Whenever the Council determines that a shortage of
water supply threatens the city, it may, by resolution, limit the times and
hours during which city water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car
washing, air condition, or other specified uses. After publication of the
resolution, no person shall use, or permit water to be used, in violation of
the resolution, and any customer who does so shall be charged a fee set by
resolution of the Council for each day of violation and the charge shall be
added to his next water bill. If the emergency requires immediate compliance
with terms of the resolution, the Council may provide for the delivery of a
copy of the resolution to the premises of each customer, and any customer who
has received such notice and thereafter uses or permits water to be used in
violation of the resolution shall be subject to the charge provided above.
Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of water service.
WATER REGULATIONS
§ 52.25 SUPPLY FROM ONE SERVICE.
   No more than one housing unit or building shall be supplied from one service
connection except by permission of City Council. Each unit served shall have a
separate water meter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.26 TAPPING OF MAINS RESTRICTED.
   No person, except persons authorized by the City Council, shall tap any
distributing main or pipe of the water supply system or insert stopcocks or
ferrules therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.27 REPAIRS.
   (A)   Determination of need for repairs. Based on the information supplied
by the property owner or available to the city, the city may make a
determination whether a problem exists in that portion of the service which is
the city's responsibility. If the problem, appears to exist in the areas for
which the city has no responsibility, the private owners will be responsible
for correction of the problem.
   (B)   Thawing of water services. The city may attempt to thaw water services
on request of the resident. If the problem is found within that portion of the
service for which the private owner is responsible, the private owner
thereafter will be responsible for thawing the service and correction of the
problem.
   (C)   Excavation or repair of water service.
      (1)   The city may arrange for the investigative digging up and repair of
any water service where the problem apparently exists within that area for
which the city has responsibility.
      (2)   Unless it is clearly evident, however, that the problem is the
responsibility of the city, the excavation and repair may not be made until the
property owner requests the city in writing to excavate or repair the service
and agrees to pay the cost.
      (3)   The owner further agrees to waive public hearing and be special
assessed the cost of the excavation and repair if the problem is found to be
other than the city's responsibility. The city may make the determination for
responsibility of the cost of investigation or repair.
      (4)   The matter of whether the dig up is done by city forces or
contracted would depend on the urgency or need of repair and the availability
of city forces to do the work. Recovery by the city for faulty construction
will depend upon the circumstances and the decision of the City Attorney on the
likelihood of recovery.
   (D)   Failure to repair. In case of failure upon the part of any consumer or
owner to repair any leak occurring in his or her service pipe within 24 hours
after verbal or written notice thereof, the water may be turned off by the city
and may not be turned on until the leak has been repaired and a fee pursuant to
§
52.51 has been paid to the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.28 ABANDONED OR UNUSED SERVICES.
   (A)   If the premises served by water have been abandoned, or if the service
has not been used for one year, then the service may be shut off at the curb
stop box by the city and the water meter will be removed.
   (B)   When new buildings are erected on the site of old ones, and it is
desired to increase or change the old water service, no connections with the
mains may be made until all the old service has been removed and the main taps
plugged or yoked connections installed by the city at the owner's expense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.29 DISCONNECTION PERMIT.
   A permit must be obtained to disconnect from the existing water service
leads at the curb stop box. The fee for the permit shall be set pursuant to §
52.51.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.30 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe shall be laid so as to allow at least one foot of extra
length in order to prevent rupture by settlement. The service pipe must be
placed no less than seven feet below the ground and in a manner as to prevent
rupture by freezing. Service pipes must extend from the curb stop box to the
inside of the building, or if not taken into the building, then to the hydrant
or fixtures which it is intended to supply. All tubing and pipes shall conform
to the Minnesota Plumbing Code. All underground joints are to be mechanical,
except joints under floors shall be soldered in accordance with the Minnesota
Plumbing Code, unless otherwise approved by the Utilities Superintendent.
Joints of copper tubing shall be kept, to a minimum, and all joints shall
conform to the Minnesota Plumbing Code. All joints and connections shall be
left uncovered until inspected by the Utilities Superintendent and must comply
to the Minnesota Plumbing Code and tested at normal water line pressure. Unions
must conform to the Minnesota Plumbing Code. Connections with the mains for
domestic supply shall be at least three-quarter inch up to the curb stop box.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.31 EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No excavation shall be made until a permit for the connection has been
issued by the city.
   (B)   No water service pipe or water connection shall be installed in the
same trench or closer than ten feet horizontally to a sewer trench or drain
laid, or to be laid, either in the street or in private property, except that
the water pipe on private property may be in a common trench with a sewer drain
which is of a material that is in conformance with the current Minnesota
Plumbing Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 4714, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Where it is desired to lay the water service pipe and the building
sewer pipe in the same trench, or in separate trenches less than ten feet
apart, the water service pipe shall be above the sewer pipe unless approved by
the City Engineer. It shall be placed at least one foot above the sewer and on
a solid shelf excavated at one side of the trench. The sewer pipe shall be of a
material that is in conformance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code with tested
watertight joints. The water service pipe shall be watertight and corrosion
resistant. Copper pipe and ductile or cast iron water pipe with specially
protected joints is acceptable for this construction. Cast iron pipe shall
conform to the American Water Works Association specifications for this pipe.
Bell joint clamps with rubber gaskets are provisionally acceptable as extra
protection for the joints on cast iron water pipe. In all cases, precautions
shall be taken to assure a firm foundation for the pipes. The intervening space
between the pipes shall be backfilled with compacted earth.
   (D)   In case the installation is on a surfaced street, the following shall
apply: All backfill materials shall be mechanically compacted in 12-inch layers
to the density of the adjacent material in the roadway area and to the existing
street grades in accordance with the Minnesota Department of Transportation
Standards. Complete surface restoration shall be made.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.32 CONNECTION TO OTHER WATER SUPPLIES RESTRICTED.
   No water pipe of the water system shall be connected with any pump, well,
tank, or piping that is connected with any other source of water supply except
to service municipal systems.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.33 WATER CONNECTIONS; APPLICATIONS AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Connection applications.
      (1)   All applications for service installations and for water service
shall be made to the City Clerk. All applications for service installations and
water service shall be made by the owner or agent of the property to be served
and shall state the size and location of service connection required. The
applicant shall, at the time of making application, pay to the city the amount
of fees as established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted
pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time or
deposit required for the installation of the service connection as hereinafter
provided. Applications for services larger than one inch shall be accompanied
by two sets of plans or sketches indicating preferred location of service pipe
and size of service based on building demand.
      (2)   The size of the water service connections and meter shall be
subject to approval of the City Engineer. Water meter sizing for a domestic
connection shall be 5/8 inch by 3/4 inch. The standard service line size will
be one inch. If the homeowner requests a larger service line the extra cost of
the water meter will be charged to the connection owner. The future replacement
of the water meter will be billed at the difference between the standard meter
cost and meter need to accommodate the larger line at the time of replacement.
      (3)   Water billing shall start at the time of installation of the water
meter, or in the event the meter is not installed, seven days after completion
of outside piping, and shall be calculated upon the minimum quarterly rate,
prorated on a semi-monthly basis.
   (B)   Connection charges.
      (1)   A permit must be obtained to connect to the existing water service
leads at the curb stop box. The fee for the permit shall be set pursuant to §
52.51. The city shall install or have installed all service connections from
the water main to the curb stop box including the stop box. Payment for service
connections must be made before the work is started and should be based upon 1½
times the estimate of costs provided by the City Engineer. Any excess deposit
shall be returned to the applicant.
      (2)   Additional charges shall be paid at the time of making application
for tapping and making connections with the water main to where a curb stop box
and service lead is not previously installed. The charge shall include the
tapping of the water main, corporation cocks, the installation of a service
line, the installation of a curb stop box, cost of restoring disturbed areas
and all other costs related to the installation.
      (3)   There shall be a connection charge pursuant to §
52.51 levied by the city to contribute to the payment of the costs of the
Public Water System Facilities. The City Council shall set by resolution the
charges to be made for nonresidential installations.
      (4)   When water services have been stopped because of a violation of
this chapter, the city shall collect the fee established pursuant to §
52.51 before service is recommenced.
      (5)   If a person desires to connect to the system and service a parcel
that has not been assessed for the cost of water main and lateral construction,
then before a permit is granted, the city shall collect an amount from the
applicant that is established pursuant to §
52.51.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.34 LOCATION OF CURB STOP BOX.
   Curb stop boxes will be installed on the right-of-way line or easement
limits at a location as determined by the City Engineer to be best suitable to
the property and shall be left in a vertical position when backfilling is
completed. Curb stop boxes will be installed at an approximate depth of seven
feet below the finished ground elevation and the top of the curb stop box shall
be adjusted to be flush with the finished ground elevation. Curb stop boxes
must be firmly supported by a masonry block. No person shall erect any fence or
plant any tree or other landscaping that would obstruct, or place a structure
on, park a motor vehicle on, or otherwise obstruct the use of the curb stop
box, or cause damage to the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.35 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Generally. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person, unless
otherwise authorized by the City Council or Public Utilities Department, shall
use water from the water system or permit water to be drawn therefrom unless
the same be metered by passing through a meter supplied or approved by the
city. No person not authorized by the City Council or Utilities Superintendent
shall connect, disconnect, take apart, or in any manner change or cause to be
changed or interfere with any meter or the action thereof, or break any meter
or valve seal.
      (1)   A charge established pursuant to §
52.51 shall be paid by customers to the city for water meters including
installations and check valves and payment for same shall be made at the time
of water service application. This payment shall be made only once, subject to
the following.
      (2)   Where a consumer has need for a larger line in addition to his or
her domestic line, as in the case of a commercial consumer who needs a one-inch
line for normal use and a six-inch or larger line for a fire sprinkler system,
he or she will be permitted to run one line into the premises and “Y” off into
two lines at the building. When this is done, the meter will be attached to the
small or domestic line and a check valve as well as one-inch detection meter
shall be put on the large line.
      (3)   The city shall maintain and repair all meters when rendered
unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall replace them if
necessary. When replacement, repair, or adjustment of any meter is rendered by
the act, neglect (including damage from freezing or hot water backup) or
carelessness of the owner or occupant of the premises, any expense caused the
city thereby shall be charged against and collected from the water consumer.
      (4)   A consumer may, by written request, have his or her meter tested by
depositing the amount established pursuant to §
52.51. In case a test should show an error of over 5% of the water consumed, a
correctly registering meter will be installed, and the bill will be adjusted
accordingly and the testing deposit refunded. This adjustment shall not extend
back more than one billing period from the date of the written request.
      (5)   All water meters and remote readers shall be and remain the
property of the city.
      (6)   Authorized city employees shall have free access at reasonable
hours of the day to all parts of every building and premises connected with the
water system for reading of meters and inspections. However, city employees may
not enter private property without obtaining the permission of the owner to do
so or have obtained a search warrant issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20.
      (7)   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to notify the city
to request a final reading at the time of the customer's billing change.
   (B)   Water meter setting. All water meters hereafter installed shall be in
accordance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code and any standards established by
resolution of the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.50 WATER UNIT.
   A water unit (hereinafter called unit) shall be one residential equivalent
connection based on usage of 100,000 gallons per year or portion thereof.
§ 52.51 RATES, FEES AND CHARGES GENERALLY.
   The City Council shall establish a schedule of all water rates, fees and
charges for permits or services in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges
adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time. In
accordance with M.S. § 444.075 Subd 3, charges made for service rendered shall
be as nearly as possible proportionate to the cost of furnishing the service.
§ 52.52 WATER SERVICE BILLING; CHANGE OF ADDRESS.
   All bills and notices shall be mailed or delivered to the address where
service is provided. If nonresident owners or agents desire personal notice
sent to a different address, they shall so note on the water service
application. Any change or error in address shall be promptly reported to the
City Clerk. All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who
personally or by his or her authorized agent, applied for the service. The
owner shall be liable for water services supplied to the property whether he or
she is occupying the property or not.
§ 52.53 WATER RATES.
   (A)   The rate due and payable by each user within the city for water taken
from the water system shall be established pursuant to §
52.51.
   (B)   In case the meter is found to have stopped, or to be operating in a
faulty manner, the amount of water used will be estimated in accordance with
the amount used previously in comparable periods of the year.
   (C)   Rates due and payable by each water user located beyond the
territorial boundaries of the city may be determined by special contract.
   (D)   The minimum rates established pursuant to §
52.51 shall begin to accrue after connection of the service pipe with the curb
stop box.
   (E)   A meter shall be installed on the water valve in the house and a
remote register outside regardless of whether inside piping is connected.
   (F)   In the event a water customer elects to discontinue the use of the
municipal water, the regular or minimum charge shall continue until the date as
service is disconnected at the curb box.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.54 PAYMENT OF CHARGES; LATE PAYMENT; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Any prepayment or overpayment of charges may be retained by the city
and applied on subsequent charges.
   (B)   If a service charge is not paid when due, then a penalty of 10% shall
be added thereto.
   (C)   In the event a user fails to pay his or her water user fee within a
reasonable time following discontinuance of service (a time period not to
exceed 90 days), the fee shall be certified by the City Clerk and forwarded to
the County Auditor for collection as provided for in
Chapter 54.
Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.70 SUPERVISION BY UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT; LICENSING.
   (A)   All piping connections from the curb stop box to house supply piping
shall be made under the supervision of a licensed plumber subject to inspection
by the Utilities Superintendent. The piping connection made to the curb stop
box on the house side shall be inspected by the Utilities Superintendent. The
water meter installation shall be inspected, tested and the meter sealed by the
Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
altering, repairing, installing or constructing municipal water connections
within the city without first obtaining a license to carry on the occupation
from the city. A master plumber licensed by the state under the provisions of
M.S. § 326B.46, as it may be amended from time to time, is exempt from the
provisions of this section. A person in the ditch installing the pipe who has a
card showing that they have completed a program of training that incorporates
the Plumbing Code installation requirements, issued by either the Associated
Builders and Contractors, Laborers-Employers Cooperation Educational Trust, or
Minnesota Utility Contractors Association, is not subject to the licensing
requirements of this section.
      (1)   The applicant shall file with the City Clerk evidence of public
liability insurance, including products liability insurance with limits of at
least $50,000 per person and $100,000 per occurrence and property damage
insurance with limits of at least $10,000. Evidence of insurance required
pursuant to M.S. § 326B.46, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time,
shall satisfy this requirement.
      (2)   The applicant shall file with the City Clerk a surety bond
guaranteeing the conformance and compliance of work with this chapter. The bond
shall be in the amount of $2,000. The city shall hold the bond for one year
following the license period. Failure to comply with provisions and
requirements of this chapter shall result in forfeiture of the bond. The
applicant may comply with the requirements of M.S. § 326B.46, Subd. 2, as it
may be amended from time to time in lieu of these requirements.
      (3)   Applications for licenses shall be filed with the City Clerk and
shall be reviewed and subject to approval of the city.
      (4)   Any installation, construction, alteration of a water connection by
a licensee in violation of any provision of this chapter or refusal on the part
of a licensee to correct the defective work shall be cause for revocation of or
refusal to renew a license. This license may be revoked or refused for renewal
by the city at any time for cause which shall be documented in writing.
   (C)   All licenses required in this section shall be renewable annually.
Applications for licenses shall be made annually on a form furnished by the
City Clerk. Licenses shall be in effect from January 1 to December 31 of the
same year. The license fee shall be established pursuant to §
52.51.
   (D)   Before any license issued under the provisions of this section may be
revoked or its renewal refused, the licensee shall be given a hearing by the
City Council to show cause why the license should not be revoked or refused.
Notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be in writing.
§ 52.71 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Utilities Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city, upon proper identification, are authorized, with the permission of the
licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property within the
city, to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspections, observation
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. If the licensee,
owner, resident or other person in control of property within the city does not
permit the entrance to the property, the city shall obtain an administrative
search warrant as provided for in §
10.20 before entering the property, except in emergency situations.
§ 52.72 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Water service may be shut off at any connection as provided for in
Chapter 54 of this code.
§ 52.73 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO TURN WATER ON AND OFF.
   No person, except an authorized city employee, shall turn on or off any
water supply at the curb stop box.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.74 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE, LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by
reason of the violation.
CHAPTER 53: STORM WATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
Section
   
53.01   Storm water drainage utility established
   
53.02   Definition
   
53.03   Determination of storm water drainage fees
   
53.04   Credits
   
53.05   Exemptions
   
53.06   Fee payment schedules
§ 53.01 STORM WATER DRAINAGE UTILITY ESTABLISHED.
   The Council may, by resolution adopted by a majority of its members, resolve
that the city storm sewer system be operated as a public utility pursuant to
M.S. § 444.075, from which revenues will be derived subject to the provisions
of this chapter and state statutes. The storm water drainage utility will be
under the administration of the City Clerk.
§ 53.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT FACTOR (REF). One REF is defined as the ratio of the
average volume of runoff generated by one acre of a given land use to the
average volume of runoff generated by one acre of typical single-family
residential land during a standard one-year rainfall event.
§ 53.03 DETERMINATION OF STORM WATER DRAINAGE FEES.
   (A)   Storm water drainage fees for parcels of land shall be determined by
multiplying the REF for a parcel's land use by the parcel's acreage and then
multiplying the resulting product by the storm water drainage rate. The REF
values for various land uses are as shown in the following table.
Classification Land Use REF
Classification Land Use                                             REF
1              Cemeteries, golf courses                             .25
2              Parks with parking facilities                        .75
3              Single-family and duplex residential                 1
4              Public and private schools                           1.25
5              Multiple-family residential, churches and government 2.5
               buildings
6              Commercial, industrial, warehouse                    5
7              Vacant land                                          As assigned
 
   (B)   For the purpose of calculating storm water drainage fees, all
developed single-family and duplex parcels shall be considered to have an
acreage of one-third acre. The storm water drainage rate shall be as set in the
Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code by the City Council.
   (C)   Other uses not listed shall be classified by the City Engineer by
assigning them to the most similar class from the standpoint of probably
hydrologic response.
§ 53.04 CREDITS.
   The Council may adopt policies, recommended by the City Engineer, by
resolution for adjustment of the storm water drainage fee for parcels based
upon hydrologic data to be supplied by the property owner, which data
demonstrates a hydrologic response substantially different from the standards.
The adjustment of storm water drainage fees shall not be made retroactively.
§ 53.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following land uses are exempt from storm water drainage fees:
   (A)   Public rights-of-way;
   (B)   Vacant, unimproved land with ground cover; and
   (C)   Wetlands and public waters as defined by state law.
§ 53.06 FEE PAYMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Statements for storm water drainage fees shall be computed monthly and
shall appear as part of the monthly utility bill from the city utilities.
   (B)   If a property owner or person responsible for paying the storm water
drainage fee questions the correctness of the fee, the person may have the
determination of the charge recomputed by written request to the City Engineer.
   (C)   Each monthly billing for storm water drainage fees not paid when due
shall incur a penalty charge of 10% of the amount past due.
   (D)   Any past due storm water drainage fees in excess of 90 days past due
on October 1 of any year may be certified to the County Auditor for collection
with real estate taxes in the following year, pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, Subd.
3e. In addition, the city shall also have the right to bring civil action or to
take other legal remedies to collect unpaid fees.
CHAPTER 54: RATES AND CHARGES
Section
   
54.01   Generally
   
54.02   Collection of charges
   
54.03   Disconnection for late payment
   
54.04   Cold weather rule
   
54.05   Delinquent charges
§ 54.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The monthly charge for water, sewer services and for collection,
removal and disposal of garbage and trash from residences and businesses within
the corporate limits of the city shall be as established by the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Accounts. All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who
personally, or by his or her authorized agent, applied for such service. The
owner shall be liable for water and sewer services supplied to the property,
whether he or she is occupying the property or not, and any unpaid charges
shall be a lien upon the property.
§ 54.02 COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   The charges fixed herein for water, sewer services and for collection,
removal and disposal of all garbage and trash shall be entered in their
respective amounts on the utility bill. The city may discontinue all utility
services, including water, sewer, and garbage and trash services, for failing
to pay any assessed charges and until the charges have been paid in full under
conditions and procedures detailed in §
54.03.
§ 54.03 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn- on charge as
established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to
§
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
§ 54.04 COLD WEATHER RULE.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 216B.097, as it may be amended from time to time, no
service of a residential customer shall be disconnected if the disconnection
affects the primary heat source for the residential unit when the disconnection
would occur during the period between October 1 and April 30, the customer has
declared inability to pay on forms provided by the city, the household income
of the customer is at or below 50% of the state median household income as
documented by the customer to the city, and the customer’s account is current
for the billing period immediately prior to October 1 or the customer has
entered into a payment schedule and is reasonably current with payments under
the schedule. The City Clerk shall, between August 15 and October 1, of each
year, notify all residential customers of these provisions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.05 DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   As provided for by M.S. § 444.075, Subd. 3e, as it may be amended from time
to time, the City Clerk, annually or more frequently as directed by Council,
shall prepare a list of delinquent charges to be certified for payment as
taxes. The list of delinquent charges shall be delivered to the City Council
for adoption. All persons who have delinquent charges included in the list
shall be notified and given a chance to appear before the Council before the
list is adopted. In the event the delinquency involves rental property, notice
shall be given to the record owner of the property in addition to the tenant or
other parties in possession and he or she given a chance to appear before the
Council. Upon adoption, the Clerk shall certify the unpaid charges to the
County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected. This action may be
optional or subsequent to taking other legal action to collect delinquent
charges, and shall not preclude the City or its agents from recovery of the
delinquent charges and interest under any other available remedy, and shall not
preclude the disconnection for late payment provided for in this chapter.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   SNOWMOBILES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL AND OTHER VEHICLES
      
74.   BICYCLES, ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER SKIS AND SKATEBOARDS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State highway traffic regulations adopted by reference
   
70.02   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
70.03   Stop intersections
   
70.04   Through streets and one-way streets
   
70.05   Turning restrictions
   
70.06   U-turns restricted
   
70.07   Excessive noise
   
70.08   Exhibition driving prohibited
   
70.09   Cruising prohibited
   
70.10   Motor vehicle noise
   
70.11   Pedestrian crossings
   
70.12   Crossings for seniors or disabled persons
Parades
   
70.20   Definitions
   
70.21   Permit required
   
70.22   Application for permit
   
70.23   Standards for issuance of permit
   
70.24   Notice of rejection of permit application
   
70.25   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
70.26   Alternative permit
   
70.27   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
70.28   Contents of permit
   
70.29   Duties of permittee
   
70.30   Public conduct during parades
   
70.31   Revocation of permit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Highway Traffic Regulations Act is hereby adopted by reference.
The regulatory provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time
to time, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating the use of
highways, streets and alleys within the city and are hereby incorporated in and
made a part of this section as completely as if set out in full herein.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of the provisions of state statutes adopted
by reference in this section shall be identical with the penalty provided for
in the statutes for the same offense.
§ 70.02 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   As authorized by M.S. § 169.87, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Council by resolution may designate streets on which travel by
commercial vehicles in excess of 10,000 pounds axle weight is prohibited. The
Chief of Police shall cause appropriate signs to be erected on those streets.
No person shall operate a commercial vehicle on posted streets in violation of
the restrictions posted.
   (B)   The weight restrictions established in division (A) shall not apply to
city or emergency vehicles, public school buses, garbage and refuse trucks
making regular collections and are under contract with the city, recycling
trucks used exclusively for collection of recycling materials pursuant to a
city mandate to provide curbside recycling, and implements of husbandry
operated in compliance with M.S. § 169.801, as it may be amended from time to
time, and city, county and state road authority vehicles engaged in snow and
ice removal or flood control operations on behalf of a state or local
government, nor shall the weight restrictions in division (A) apply if a
commercial vehicle must use the particular street in question for the purpose
of local pick-up or delivery.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 169.84, the gross weight of any vehicle or
combination of vehicles driven onto or over a bridge on any city street or
highway shall not exceed the safe capacity of the bridge, as may be indicated
by warning posted on the bridge or the approaches thereto.
   (D)   Pursuant to M.S. § 169.86, M.S. § 169.862 and M.S. § 169.865, the City
Clerk may issue a permit for heavier loads to travel on streets where otherwise
restricted. The City Clerk may issue such a permit upon applicant provision of
adequate insurance, execution of a written agreement to pay the city costs of
any repairs the roadway, curbs, ditches and right-of-way necessitated by the
permittee’s damage to the roadway and to defend and indemnify the city against
all claims related to the permittee’s use of the roadway, and posting of a bond
or other financial security in an amount adequate to cover city expenses,
including but not limited to repair costs related to any damage to the road.
Any person aggrieved by a permit denial may appeal the denial to the City
Council within 30 days of such denial. Permits issued under this provision are
good for five consecutive business days. No person, corporation or other entity
may obtain more than three permits per year. The permit fee shall be set by the
Ordinance establishing fees and charges for the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 169.04, as it may be amended from time to time, the city
may designate intersections as a stop intersection and require all vehicles to
stop at one or more entrances to those intersections. The city shall post signs
at those designated intersections, giving notice of the designation as a stop
intersection. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings
or signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 THROUGH STREETS AND ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 169.04, as it may be amended from time to time, the City
Council by resolution may designate any street or portion of a street as a
through street or one-way street where necessary to preserve the free flow of
traffic or to prevent accidents. No trunk highway shall be so designated unless
the consent of the Commissioner of Transportation to the designation is first
secured. The city shall cause appropriate signs to be posted at the entrance to
designated streets. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the
markings or signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to M.S. § 169.04, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Council by resolution may, whenever necessary to preserve a free
flow of traffic or to prevent accidents, designate any intersection as one
where turning of vehicles to the left or to the right, or both, is to be
restricted at all times or during specified hours. No intersection on a trunk
highway shall be so designated until the consent of the Commissioner of
Transportation to the designation is first obtained.
      (2)   The city shall mark by appropriate signs any intersection so
designated.
      (3)   No person shall turn a vehicle at any intersection contrary to the
direction on those signs.
   (B)   Except at intersections, and then only if not posted otherwise, it
shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle on any street to
cross the center of the street for the purpose of parking on the side of the
street opposite the original direction of travel.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle on any
street to back up or drive from a parked position and commence travel in the
opposite direction from which the motor vehicle faced when parked.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 U-TURNS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall turn a vehicle so as to reverse its direction on any street
in the business district or at any intersection where traffic is regulated by a
traffic control signal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.07 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   LIGHT-MOTOR VEHICLES means any automobile, van, motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle, motor scooter, go-cart, minibike, trail bike, neighborhood
electric vehicle, golf cart, mini truck, all terrain vehicle, truck with a
gross vehicular weight of less than 10,000 pounds or low power vehicle.
      (2)   LOW POWER VEHICLE for the purposes of this section means a vehicle
with a gas, electric or battery powered engine that may achieve a maximum
vehicle speed of 35 miles per hour.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or cause to operate,
or use a light-motor vehicle in a manner as to cause, or allow to be caused,
excessive noise levels as a result of unreasonable rapid accelerations,
deceleration, revving of engine, squealing of tires, honking of horns, or as a
result of the operation of audio devices including but not limited to radios,
phonograph, tape players, compact disc players or any other sound-amplifying
device on or from the light-motor vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor
vehicle in violation of the noise standards contained in Minn. Rules parts
7030.1050 and 7030.1060, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   No person shall operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor
vehicle that discharges its exhaust other than through a muffler or other
device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises. No person shall
operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor vehicle whose exhaust system
has been modified, altered, or repaired in any way, including the use of a
muffler cut-out or by-pass, that amplifies or otherwise increases noise above
that emitted by the light-motor vehicle as originally equipped. 
   (E)   The following are exempted from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Burglar alarms on light-motor vehicles of the electronic signaling
type which also transmit an audible signal to a receiver which can be carried
by the owner or operator of the vehicle; and
      (3)   Celebrations on Halloween and other legal holidays and celebrations
in connection with duly authorized parades.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.08 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Unreasonable squealing or screeching
sounds emitted by tires or the unreasonable throwing of sand or gravel by the
tires is prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, CRUISING means the operation of a motor
vehicle as defined in M.S. § 169.011, Subd. 42, as it may be amended from time
to time, past a traffic control point as determined by a peace officer on a
street in an area designated “No Cruising Zone” by City Council resolution four
or more times between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 3:30 a.m.
   (B)   The passing of a traffic control point under the conditions previously
stated, shall constitute unnecessary repetitive driving and is a violation of
this section.
   (C)   The following use of vehicles shall constitute valid exceptions to
this prohibition: taxicabs for hire, buses, authorized emergency vehicle,
vehicles used by or under contract with any governmental jurisdiction, any
vehicle being used to conduct legitimate business activities.
   (D)   This section may be enforced only in an area that has been posted as a
“No Cruising Zone.” Signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end of any
public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof which is a no cruising
zone.
§ 70.10 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following phrases
are defined as follows:
      ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. 
         (a)   Distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's value;
         (b)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working order; or
         (c)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693 and Minn.
Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as this statute and these rules may be
amended from time to time, which establish motor vehicle noise standards.
      ENGINE-RETARDING BRAKE. A dynamic brake, jake brake, Jacobs brake, C-
brake, Paccar brake, transmission brake or other similar engine-retarding brake
system which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust or permit
the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except through a muffler
that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies with all
applicable state laws and regulations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to intentionally
use an engine-retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot or
alley within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine
because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system, except in an
emergency.
   (D)   Minnesota Statutes §§ 169.69 and 169.693 (motor vehicle noise limits)
and Minn. Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as these statutes and rules
may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference.
   (E)   Signs stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” may be installed at
locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise motorists of the
prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign stating “VEHICLE
NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” shall be installed on a state highway without a permit
from the Minnesota Department of Transportation. The provisions of this section
are in full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
§ 70.11 PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 169.2151, as it may be amended from time to time, the
city is authorized to designate pedestrian safety crossings on exclusive city
streets where pedestrian safety considerations require extra time for
pedestrian crossing in addition to the time recommended under the Minnesota
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for pedestrian signals. The city may
provide for timing of pedestrian signals for such crossings, consistent with
the recommendations of the uniform manual for pedestrian signal timing at
senior citizen and disabled pedestrian crossings. The location of such
crossings may be designated by resolution.
§ 70.12 CROSSINGS FOR SENIORS OR DISABLED PERSONS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 169.215, as it may be amended from time to time, the city
may designate a crossing for senior citizens or disabled persons on any
exclusive city street in the vicinity of a senior citizen housing project,
senior citizen nursing home, or residential care facility for disabled persons
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation prescribed by the
Commissioner and subject to the uniform specifications adopted by the Minnesota
Commissioner of Transportation.
PARADES
§ 70.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
§ 70.21 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the City Clerk
or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities; provided, that the conduct is under the immediate
direction and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.22 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Generally. A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an
application with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than 72 hours but not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade. Failure to file an application 72 hours in
advance will not result in automatic denial of the permit; provided, that the
applicant shows reasonable grounds why the application could not be filed 72
hours in advance.
   (C)   Required information. The application for a parade permit shall set
forth the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (D)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as it may be amended from time to time. In addition, the
applicant must provide proof of a valid insurance policy in the amount of
$500,000 per individual claim and $1,500,000 for all claims arising from the
same event, that names and agrees to defend and indemnify the city from any and
all claims arising from the parade.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.23 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Clerk shall issue a permit when, from a consideration of the
application and from other information obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (D)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (E)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.24 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   If the City Clerk disapproves the application, he or she shall mail to the
applicant within the three regular business days after the date on which the
application was filed a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for his
or her denial of the permit.
§ 70.25 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 70.26 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The City Clerk or other authorized city official, in denying an application
for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade
on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by the
applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
§ 70.27 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the Police Chief and the Fire Chief.
§ 70.28 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.29 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.30 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Police Chief or other authorized city
official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. Signs shall be
posted to the effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs have been posted
in accordance with this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.31 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   No parking where posted
   
71.02   Limited parking
   
71.03   Other parking restrictions
   
71.04   Declaration of snow emergency; parking prohibited
   
71.05   Parking certain semi-trailers or tractors on public streets prohibited
   
71.06   Overnight parking
   
71.07   Repairing of vehicles
   
71.08   Prohibiting parking areas in front yards in residential zones
   
71.09   Impoundment
   
71.10   Prima facie violation
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 90
§ 71.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets
of the city at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices,
marks, or painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb
immediately adjacent thereto, prohibit these acts.
   (B)   Pursuant to M.S. § 168B.035, the City Police Chief, if any, or the
City Council may appoint as many parking enforcement officers as are needed to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. The parking enforcement officers shall
be subordinate to the Chief of Police, if there is one, or the City Clerk. A
PARKING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER is an individual whose services are utilized by a
law enforcement agency to provide parking enforcement and administrative or
clerical assistance and who is not a sworn and licensed police officer. A
parking enforcement officer’s duties shall not include enforcement of the
general criminal laws of the state, and the parking enforcement officer does
not have full powers of arrest or authorization to carry a firearm on duty.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
city where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may by resolution order the placing of signs, devices
or marks, or the painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion,
as evidenced by a finding in its official minutes, the stopping, standing or
parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement
of traffic. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be official signs,
devices, marks or painting, and no person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle
in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated thereby.
   (B)   “No parking” signs may be placed by city employees on any street of
the city to permit construction, repair, snow removal, street cleaning or
similar temporary activities. While the signs are in place, it shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle on the streets or portion thereof so posted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park in an area designated by
Council resolution and posted as a fire lane.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a vehicle or permit it to
stand, whether attended or unattended, on an alley within the city, provided
that this does not prohibit the parking of vehicles for less than one hour on
an alley for the purpose of access to abutting property for loading or
unloading merchandise or other material when parking on the property itself is
not available.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a motor vehicle in an area
designated by posted signs pursuant to Council resolution for certain types of
vehicles, unless the motor vehicle is one of the types of vehicles specifically
permitted.
   (F)   Every vehicle parked upon any street with a curb shall be parked
parallel to the curb, unless angle parking is designated by appropriate signs
or markings. On streets with a curb, the right-hand wheels of any vehicle
parked shall be within one foot of the curb. On streets without a curb, the
vehicle shall be parked to the right of the main traveled portion of the street
and parallel to it and in such a manner as not to interfere with the free flow
of traffic, unless angle parking is designated by appropriate signs or
markings.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY; PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Mayor, Police Chief or other designated official may declare a
snow emergency in the city. The emergency shall continue in effect for a period
of 24 hours or until the snow has been removed from the city's streets or until
the snow emergency has been rescinded by action of the Mayor, Police Chief or
other designated officer.
   (B)   Notice of the declaration of a snow emergency shall be given by
notifying the local news media; however, the notification shall be a service
aid only and not a duty on the part of the officials.
   (C)   During a declared snow emergency or after two inches or more of snow
have accumulated, no motor vehicle shall be left parked on any street or public
way in the city until the declared emergency is canceled or, if no emergency is
declared, until the street is cleared on both sides of accumulated snow.
   (D)   During a declared snow emergency, any police officer or city appointed
parking enforcement officer, appointed pursuant to M.S. § 168B.035, Subd. 2,
who finds a motor vehicle in violation of this section shall attempt to contact
the owner of the motor vehicle and require the owner to immediately move the
motor vehicle so as not to be in violation of this section. If the owner does
not immediately remove the motor vehicle or the owner cannot be located, the
police officer or city appointed parking enforcement officer, appointed
pursuant to M.S. § 168B.035, Subd. 2, is authorized to have the motor vehicle
removed at the owner's expense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 PARKING CERTAIN SEMI-TRAILERS OR TRACTORS ON PUBLIC STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a semi-tractor or trailer, or any truck rated with a
gross vehicle weight in excess of 10,000 pounds, in any area of the city zoned
for residential use or other area designated by City Council resolution except
when the vehicle is parked in a completely enclosed garage.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   The following vehicles shall not be allowed to park on city streets
overnight: repair, delivery, rented vehicles with commercial plates and refuse
and recycling haulers or any other vehicle not registered as a passenger
vehicle.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 REPAIRING OF VEHICLES.
   Minor repairs and tune-ups, such as replacement of spark plugs, spark plug
wires, thermostat, radiator or heater hoses, oil changes and brake jobs shall
be permitted on city streets; provided, that they can be accomplished within
the same day and completed by 10:00 p.m. All other repairs shall be considered
major repairs and shall not be permitted on any city street, unless the repairs
are made within an enclosed structure allowed within the zoning district.
Damage to city streets because of repairs or lack of repairs shall be charged
to the person responsible for the damage to the city streets.
§ 71.08 PROHIBITING PARKING AREAS IN FRONT YARDS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   The construction, operation or maintaining a parking area, either
paved or unpaved, in the front yard of any lot is prohibited in any area zoned
for residential use. For the purpose of this section, front yard shall mean and
include that area between the sidewalk, or street line in the event there is no
sidewalk, and the front line of the principal building, extending in both
directions to the side lot lines.
   (B)   Use of that portion of a vacant lot within 30 feet of the sidewalk
lines for parking in an area zoned for residential use is prohibited.
   (C)   Driveways in any area zoned for residential use shall not exceed 25%
of the width at the front or side lot line. Where more than one driveway is
desired or required, they shall be at least 70 feet apart.
   (D)   The front part of any lot shall not be used for the parking of an
automobile, truck, trailer, tractor, recreational vehicle, camper, travel
trailer, camper top, tent, wagon, boat, boat trailer, storage area or motor
home.
   (E)   No person, being the owner or having control of any building, shall
violate or fail to conform to any provision of this section, or fail to obey
any lawful order of an officer charged with its enforcement. Each and every day
on which any person continues to violate the provisions of this section, after
having been notified of the violation, shall constitute a separate offense.
This conviction shall not relieve any person from thereafter complying with the
provisions of this section, and shall be sufficient cause to refuse further
building or land use permits to the offender until a time as the orders have
been complied with.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any police officer or city appointed parking enforcement officer, appointed
pursuant to M.S. § 168B.035, Subd. 2, may order the removal of a vehicle from a
street to a garage or other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended
and constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal, street
improvements or maintenance operations. The vehicle shall not be released until
the fees for towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed for
violation of this chapter.
§ 71.10 PRIMA FACIE VIOLATIONS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 169.34, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time,
the presence of any motor vehicle on any street when standing or parked in
violation of this chapter is prima facie evidence that the registered owner of
the vehicle committed or authorized the commission of the violation.
CHAPTER 72: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
72.01   Intent
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Application of traffic ordinances
   
72.04   Restrictions
   
72.05   Stopping and yielding
   
72.06   Persons under 18
   
72.07   Equipment
   
72.08   Unattended snowmobiles
   
72.09   Emergency operation permitted
§ 72.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to supplement M.S. §§ 84.81 to 84.91, and
M.S. Ch. 169, as these statutes may be amended from time to time and Minn.
Rules parts 6100.5000 through 6100.5800, as these rules may be amended from
time to time, with respect to the operation of snowmobiles. These statutes and
rules are incorporated herein by reference. This section is not intended to
allow what the state statutes and rules prohibit, nor to prohibit what the
state statutes and rules allow.
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEADMAN THROTTLE or SAFETY THROTTLE. A device which, when pressure is
removed from the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be
disengaged from the driving mechanism.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder having the property in or title to
a snowmobile, or entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its
agencies and subdivision, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a highway or street in
which the public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway or street improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice,
steered by skis or runners.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare, roadway, alley or trail used for motor
vehicular traffic which is not an interstate, trunk, county-state aid, or
county highway.
§ 72.03 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of
Ch. 70 of this code shall apply to the operation of snowmobiles upon streets
and highways, except for those relating to required equipment, and except those
which by their nature have no application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to enter, operate or stop a snowmobile
within the limits of the city:
      (1)   On the roadway of any street, except the most right hand lane then
available for traffic or as close as practicable to right hand curb or edge of
the roadway, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle stopped in the
lane or proceeding in the same direction, or in making a left turn. Snowmobiles
may also be operated upon the outside slope of trunk, county-state aid and
county highways where the highways are so configured within the corporate
limits. The City Council may, pursuant to M.S. § 84.87, Subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time, adopt a resolution designating certain city streets
as available for snowmobile operation and prescribe such time and speed limits
as are necessary.
      (2)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel.
      (3)   On boulevards within any public right-of-way.
      (4)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of the property.
      (5)   Upon any school grounds, except as permission is expressly obtained
from responsible school authorities.
      (6)   On public property, playgrounds and recreation areas, except areas
previously listed or authorized for the use by resolution of the City Council,
in which case the use shall be lawful, and snowmobiles may be driven in and out
of those areas by the shortest route.
      (7)   On streets as permitted by this chapter at a speed exceeding 10
miles per hour.
      (8)   During the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., Sunday through
Thursday, and 12:01 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. on other days closer than 100 feet from
any residence. This provision is not intended to prohibit snowmobiles from
operating on city streets during the hours specified herein.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the
limits of the city:
      (1)   So as to tow any person or thing in a public street or highway
except through use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile;
provided, that a disabled snowmobile may be towed to a private residence or a
place of business where snowmobiles are repaired without the use of a rigid tow
bar.
      (2)   Within 100 feet of any fisherman, pedestrian, skating rink or
sliding area where the operation would conflict with use or endanger other
persons or operation.
      (3)   To intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 STOPPING AND YIELDING.
   No snowmobile shall enter any uncontrolled intersection without making a
complete stop. The operator shall then yield the right-of-way to any vehicles
or pedestrians at the intersection, or so close to the intersection as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   No person under 14 years of age shall operate on streets or make a
direct crossing of a city street as the operator of a snowmobile. A person 14
years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may operate a snowmobile
on streets as permitted under this chapter and make a direct crossing of those
streets only if he or she has in his or her immediate possession a valid
snowmobile safety certificate issued pursuant to M.S. § 84.872, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile
to be operated contrary to the provision of this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile any place within the
limits of the city unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass straight pipe or similar device on a
snowmobile motor.
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any condition of operation.
   (C)   A safety or so called deadman throttle in operating condition.
   (D)   When operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to one-
half hour before sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility, at least one clear
lamp attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and
vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness
under normal atmospheric conditions. The head lamp shall be so aimed that
glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming snowmobile
operator. It shall also be equipped with at least one red light plainly visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions.
   (E)   A pennant flag of red or blaze material, of a size not less than 12
inches by 9 inches, at a height of not less than six feet from ground level at
any time when the vehicle is operated on public streets.
   (F)   Reflective material at least 16 square inches on each side, forward of
the handlebars and at the highest practical point on any towed object, so as to
reflect lights at a 90 degree angle.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 UNATTENDED SNOWMOBILES.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile on a public place shall lock the ignition,
remove the key and take the same with him or her.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 EMERGENCY OPERATION PERMITTED.
   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this chapter, a snowmobile may be
operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time and
at locations where snow upon the roadway renders travel by automobile
impractical.
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL AND OTHER VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Purpose and intent
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Operation requirements
   
73.04   Street crossings
   
73.05   Hours of operation
   
73.06   Minimum equipment requirements
   
73.07   Designation of public areas for use
   
73.08   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles and mini trucks
   
73.09   Mobility devices
   
73.10   Motorized foot scooters
   
73.11   Medium speed electric vehicles and neighborhood electric vehicles
§ 73.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide reasonable regulations
for the use of recreational motor vehicles on public and private property in
the city.
      (2)   This chapter is not intended to allow what the Minnesota Statutes
prohibit nor to prohibit what the Minnesota Statutes expressly allow.
   (B)   It is intended to ensure the public safety and prevent a public
nuisance.
§ 73.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any all-terrain vehicle as defined by M.S. § 84.92, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle and any vehicle
propelled or drawn by a self-propelled vehicle used for recreational purposes
including, but not limited to trail bike, off- highway motorcycle, as defined
by M.S. § 84.787, Subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to
time, or other all-terrain vehicle as defined by M.S. § 84.92, Subd. 8, as it
may be amended from time to time, utility task vehicle, motorized go-carts,
hovercraft or motor vehicle licensed for highway operation which is being used
for off-road recreational purposes, but not including golf carts defined by §
73.08, personal electric mobility devices defined by §
73.09, motorized foot scooters defined by §
73.10, neighborhood electric vehicles or medium speed electric vehicle as
defined by §
73.11, and mini-trucks defined by §
73.08.
   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE. A side-by-side, four-wheel drive, off-road vehicle
that has four wheels, is propelled by an internal combustion engine with a
piston displacement capacity of 1,200 cubic centimeters or less, and has a
total dry weight of 1,800 but less than 2,600 pounds as defined by M.S. §
169.045 as amended from time to time.
§ 73.03 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a recreational motor vehicle:
   (A)   On private property of another without specific written permission of
the owner of the property; (Written permission may be given by a posted notice
of any kind or description, so long as it specifies the kind of vehicles
allowed, that the owner, occupant or lessee prefers, such as by saying
“Recreational Vehicles Allowed,” “Trail Bikes Allowed,” “All-Terrain Vehicles
Allowed” or words substantially similar.)
   (B)   On publicly-owned land, including school, exclusive city streets, park
property, playgrounds, recreation areas and golf courses, except where
permitted by this chapter;
   (C)   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which
disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons;
   (D)   On a public sidewalk or walkway provided or used for pedestrian
travel;
   (E)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics or
habit-forming drugs;
   (F)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the
surrounding circumstances;
   (G)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger or be
likely to endanger any person or property or to cause injury or damage thereto;
   (H)   On any public street, highway or right-of-way unless licensed and
registered pursuant to Minnesota law;
   (I)   To intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal, wild or
domestic;
   (J)   By halting any recreational motor vehicle carelessly or heedlessly in
disregard of the rights or the safety of others or in a manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property or in excess of 25
miles per hour on publicly-owned lands; and/or
   (K)   Within 150 yards of any public recreational area or gathering of
people. This provision does not apply to the occasional use of recreational
motor vehicles on private property for the purpose of loading or unloading it
from a trailer or for mechanically checking it;
   (L)   Without headlight and taillight lighted at all times if the vehicle is
equipped with headlight and taillight;
   (M)   Without a functioning stoplight if so equipped;
   (N)   Without a brake operational by either hand or foot;
   (O)   At a speed exceeding ten miles per hour on the frozen surface of
public waters within 100 feet of a person not on an all-terrain vehicle or
within 100 feet of a fishing shelter;
   (P)   Without a helmet or seat belt.
      (1)   A person less than 18 years of age shall not ride as a passenger or
as an operator of a vehicle regulated herein on public land, public waters, or
on a public road right-of-way unless wearing a safety helmet approved by the
Commissioner of Public Safety.
      (2)   A person less than 18 years of age shall not ride as a passenger or
as an operator of a vehicle regulated herein without wearing a seat belt when
such seat belt has been provided by the manufacturer.
   (Q)   All-terrain vehicles and passengers.
      (1)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate a class 1 all-terrain
vehicle while carrying a passenger. A person 18 years of age or older may
operate a class 1 all-terrain vehicle carrying one passenger. For the purposes
of this division a CLASS 1 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE means an all-terrain vehicle
that has a total dry weight of less than 1,200 pounds.
      (2)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate a class 2 all-terrain
vehicle while carrying a passenger. A person 18 years of age or older may
operate a class 2 all-terrain vehicle while carrying a passenger, or up to the
number of passengers for which the vehicle was designed, whichever is greater.
For the purposes of this division a CLASS 2 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE means an all-
terrain vehicle that has a total dry weight of 1,200 to 1,800 pounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.04 STREET CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No person under 12 years of age operating the vehicles regulated
herein shall make a direct crossing of any street, highway or public right-of-
way or operate a vehicle regulated herein on a public street, highway or road
right-of-way or operate a vehicle regulated herein on public lands or waters,
except that a person at least 10 years of age but under 12 years of age may
operate an all-terrain vehicle with an engine capacity up to 90cc on public
lands or waters if accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   Additional restrictions for all-terrain vehicles. An all-terrain
vehicle may make a direct crossing of a public road right-of-way provided:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the road and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick and
safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder of main-traveled way of the road;
      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided road, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of the road with another public road; and
      (5)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Hours for use are 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.06 MINIMUM EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Standard mufflers shall be properly attached and in constant operation
to reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for
operation. No person shall use a muffler cutout, by- pass, straight pipe or
similar device on a recreational motor vehicle motor. The exhaust system shall
not emit or produce a sharp popping or crackling sound.
   (B)   Brakes shall be adequate to control the movement of and to stop and
hold under any conditions of operation.
   (C)   At least one clear lamp shall be attached to the front with sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. The
head lamp shall be so that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an
oncoming vehicle operator. It shall also be equipped with at least one red tail
lamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red
light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during the hours
of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. This equipment shall be
required and shall be in operating condition when the vehicle is operated
between the hours of one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before
sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.07 DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC AREAS FOR USE.
   (A)   The Council may designate areas and exclusive city streets for use of
recreational motor vehicles by approval of a resolution by a majority of the
members of the City Council. The areas designated may be changed from time to
time by the City Council. Any area designated shall be published in the
official newspaper of the city in a conspicuous place after the approval. If an
area is changed, the change shall be published in like manner in the official
newspaper of the city. An up-to-date map of any designated park areas open for
recreational motor vehicle use shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk, who shall provide on request a copy of the map together with the
applicable rules, regulations and this chapter to each person requesting the
information from the city.
   (B)   Unless designated by the City Council as an area for recreational
motor vehicles, the use on city park property and city streets shall be
unlawful. Further, the use of city parks designated by the City Council shall
be in accordance with all of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.08 MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS, UTILITY TASK VEHICLES AND MINI TRUCKS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart, utility task
vehicles or mini truck on streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public property
without obtaining a permit as provided herein.
      (2)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by
the city and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The nature of the applicant's physical handicap, if any;
         (c)   Model name, make and year and number of the motorized golf cart,
utility task vehicle or mini truck;
         (d)   Current driver's license or reason for not having a current
license; and
         (e)   Other information as the city may require.
      (3)   The annual permit fee shall be as set forth in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Permits shall be granted for a period of one year and may be
renewed annually January 1 to December 31.
      (5)   No permit shall be granted or renewed unless the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   The applicant must demonstrate that he or she currently holds or
has held a valid Minnesota driver's license to operate a mini truck;
         (b)   The applicant may be required to submit a certificate signed by
a physician that the applicant is able to safely operate a motorized golf cart,
utility task vehicle or mini truck on the roadways designated;
         (c)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance
with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes concerning insurance coverage for the
golf cart, utility task vehicle or mini truck;
         (d)   The applicant has not had his or her driver's license revoked as
the result of criminal proceedings.
      (6)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles and mini trucks are
permitted to operate only on city streets, not state or federal highways,
except to cross at designated intersections.
      (7)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles or mini trucks may only
be operated on designated roadways from sunrise to sunset. They shall not be
operated in inclement weather conditions or at any time when there is
insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (8)   Motorized golf carts shall display the slow-moving vehicle emblem
provided for in M.S. § 169.045, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to
time, when operated on designated roadways.
      (9)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles or mini trucks shall be
equipped with a wing-style rear view mirror to provide the driver with adequate
vision from behind as required by M.S. § 169.70 as is may be amended from time
to time.
      (10)   The operator of a motorized golf cart, utility task vehicle or
mini truck may cross any street or highway intersecting a designated roadway.
      (11)   Every person operating a motorized golf cart, utility task vehicle
or mini truck under permit on designated roadways has all the rights and duties
applicable to the driver of any other vehicle under the provisions of M.S. Ch.
169, as it may be amended from time to time, except when these provisions
cannot reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles or
mini trucks and except as otherwise specifically provided in M.S. § 169.045(7),
as it may be amended from time to time.
      (12)   The City Council may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder
upon a finding that the holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of
this section or M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to time, or if
there is evidence that the permit holder cannot safely operate the motorized
golf cart or mini truck on the designated roadways.
      (13)   The number of occupants in the golf cart, utility task vehicle or
mini truck may not exceed the design occupant load.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. The person driving and having physical control over the motorized
golf cart, utility task vehicle or mini truck and being the permitee.
   MINI TRUCK. As defined in M. S. § 169.011, Subd. 40a, motor vehicle that has
four wheels; is propelled by an electric motor with a rated power of 7,500
watts or less or an internal combustion engine with a piston displacement
capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less; has a total dry weight of 900 to
2,200 pounds; contains an enclosed cabin and a seat for the vehicle operator;
commonly resembles a pickup truck or van, including a cargo area or bed located
at the rear of the vehicle; and was not originally manufactured to meet federal
motor vehicle safety standards required of motor vehicles in the Code of
Federal Regulations, title 49, sections 571.101 to 571.404, and successor
requirements. A mini truck does not include: a neighborhood electric vehicle or
a medium speed electric vehicle as defined by §
73.11; or a motor vehicle that meets or exceeds the regulations in the Code of
Federal Regulations, title 49, section 571.500, as it may be amended from time
to time.
   (C)   Authorized city staff may operate city owned motorized golf carts,
utility task vehicles and mini trucks without obtaining a permit within the
city on city streets, sidewalks, trails, rights-of-way and public property when
conducting city business.
   (D)   Mini truck equipment requirements:
      (1)   A mini truck may be operated under permit on designated roadways if
it is equipped with:
         (a)   At least two headlamps;
         (b)   At least two tail lamps;
         (c)   Front and rear turn-signal lamps;
         (d)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver’s side of the vehicle
and either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger’s side of the vehicle or
an interior mirror;
         (e)   A windshield;
         (f)   A seat belt for the driver and front passenger; and
         (g)   A parking brake.
   MOTORIZED GOLF CART. Any passenger conveyance being driven with three or
four wheels with three or four low pressure tires that is limited in engine
displacement of less than 800 cubic centimeters and total dry weight less than
800 pounds.
§ 73.09 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE means a self-balancing
device with two nontandem wheels, designed to transport not more than one
person, and operated by an electric propulsion system that limits the maximum
speed of the device to 15 miles per hour.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a person operating an electric
personal assistive mobility device has the rights and responsibilities of a
pedestrian.
   (C)   Operation.
      (1)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may be operated on a
bicycle path.
      (2)   No person may operate an electric personal assistive mobility
device on a roadway, sidewalk, or bicycle path at a rate of speed that is not
reasonable and prudent under the conditions. Every person operating an electric
personal assistive mobility device on a roadway, sidewalk, or bicycle path is
responsible for becoming and remaining aware of the actual and potential
hazards then existing on the roadway or sidewalk and must use due care in
operating the device.
      (3)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may be operated on a
roadway only under the following circumstances:
         (a)   While making a direct crossing of a roadway in a marked or
unmarked crosswalk;
         (b)   Where no sidewalk is available;
         (c)   Where a sidewalk is so obstructed as to prevent safe use;
         (d)   When so directed by a traffic control device or by a peace
officer; or
         (e)   Temporarily in order to gain access to a motor vehicle;
         (f)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be
operated at any time on a roadway with a speed limit of more than 35 miles per
hour except to make a direct crossing of the roadway in a marked crosswalk;
         (g)   As provided in division (7) below by Council resolution.
      (4)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be operated
at any time while carrying more than one person.
      (5)   A person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device
on a sidewalk must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians at all times. A person
operating an electric personal assistive mobility device on a bicycle path must
yield the right-of-way to bicycles at all times.
      (6)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be operated
unless the device bears reflectorized material on the front, back, and wheels,
visible at night from 600 feet when illuminated by the lower beams of headlamps
of a motor vehicle.
      (7)   Designated exclusive city streets. The City Council may, by
resolution, designate exclusive city streets within its jurisdiction where the
operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices is permissible,
provided that no street so designated has a speed limit of more than 35 miles
per hour.
§ 73.10 MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTERS.
   (A)   MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTER means a device with handlebars designed to be
stood or sat upon by the operator, and powered by an internal combustion engine
or electric motor that is capable of propelling the device with or without
human propulsion, and that has no more than two 12-inch or smaller diameter
wheels and has an engine or motor that is capable of a maximum speed of 15
miles per hour on a flat surface with not more than 1% grade in any direction
when the motor is engaged. An electric personal assistive mobility device, a
motorized bicycle, an electric-assisted bicycle, or a motorcycle is not a
motorized foot scooter.
   (B)   Operation of a motorized foot scooter on city bicycle paths, bicycle
lanes, bicycle trails, or bikeways is prohibited except as provided in division
(C) below.
   (C)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate specific bicycle paths,
bicycle lanes, bicycle trails, or bikeways as available for use by motorized
foot scooters.
   (D)   Every person operating a motorized foot scooter shall have all rights
and duties applicable to the operator of a bicycle, except in respect to those
provisions relating expressly to motorized foot scooters and in respect to
those provisions of law that by their nature cannot reasonably be applied to
motorized foot scooters.
   (E)   No person may operate a motorized foot scooter upon a sidewalk, except
when necessary to enter or leave adjacent property. No person may operate a
motorized foot scooter that is carrying any person other than the operator.
   (F)   No person under the age of 12 years may operate a motorized foot
scooter.
   (G)   No person under the age of 18 years may operate a motorized foot
scooter without wearing properly fitted and fastened protective headgear that
complies with standards established by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (H)   A motorized foot scooter must be equipped with a headlight and a
taillight that comply with standards established by the Commissioner of Public
Safety if the vehicle is operated under conditions when vehicle lights are
required by law.
   (I)   A person operating a motorized foot scooter on a roadway shall ride as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except in
the following situations;
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn, in which case the operator shall
stop and dismount at the right- hand curb or right edge of the roadway, and
shall complete the turn by crossing the roadway on foot, subject to
restrictions placed by law on pedestrians; or
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid impediments or conditions that
make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge, including, but
not limited to, fixed or moving objects, vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals, surface hazards, or narrow lanes.
§ 73.11 MEDIUM SPEED ELECTRIC VEHICLES AND NEIGHBORHOOD ELECTRIC VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   MEDIUM SPEED ELECTRIC VEHICLE means an electrically powered four-
wheeled motor vehicle, equipped with a roll cage or crushproof body design,
that can attain a maximum speed of 35 miles per hour on a paved level surface,
is fully enclosed and has at least one door for entry, has a wheelbase of 40
inches or greater and a wheel diameter of ten inches or greater, and except
with respect to maximum speed, otherwise meets or exceeds regulations in the
Code of Federal Regulations, title 49, section 571.500, and successor
requirements.
      (2)   NEIGHBORHOOD ELECTRIC VEHICLE means an electrically powered motor
vehicle that has four wheels, and has a speed attainable in one mile of at
least 20 miles per hour but not more than 25 miles per hour on a paved level
surface.
   (B)   Operation of neighborhood electric vehicles and medium speed electric
vehicles on city streets is prohibited except as provided in (C) below.
   (C)   Use on designated exclusive city streets. The City Council may, by
resolution, designate exclusive city streets within its jurisdiction where the
operation of neighborhood electric vehicles or medium speed electric vehicles
is permissible, provided that no street so designated has a speed limit of more
than 35 miles per hour.
   (D)   A neighborhood electric vehicle or a medium-speed electric vehicle may
be operated on public streets and highways only if it meets all equipment and
vehicle safety requirements in Code of Federal Regulations, title 49, section
571.500, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Authorized city staff may operate city owned neighborhood electric
vehicles and medium speed electric vehicles within the city on city streets,
sidewalks, trails, rights-of-way and public property when conducting city
business.
CHAPTER 74: BICYCLES, ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER SKIS AND SKATEBOARDS
Section
Bicycles
   
74.01   Definition
   
74.02   Traffic laws apply
   
74.03   Manner and number riding
   
74.04   Hitching rides
   
74.05   Where to ride
   
74.06   Right-of-way; sidewalks
   
74.07   Carrying articles
   
74.08   Lighting and brake equipment
   
74.09   Sale with reflectors
Roller Blades, Roller Skates, Roller Skis and Skateboards
   
74.25   Definitions
   
74.26   Unlawful acts
   
74.27   Right-of-way
   
74.28   Hours of use
 
   
74.99   Violations
BICYCLES
§ 74.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled solely by human power upon which any person
may ride, having two tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices, and
including any device generally recognized as a BICYCLE though equipped with two
front or rear wheels.
§ 74.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle on a street or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles shall be granted all of the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this
title, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to those
provisions of this chapter which by their nature can have no application.
§ 74.03 MANNER AND NUMBER RIDING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person propelling a bicycle to ride other than
upon or astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle, including a tandem bicycle, cargo or utility bicycle or
trailer, shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the number for
which it is designed and equipped, except on a baby seat attached to the
bicycle, provided that the seat is equipped with a harness to hold the child
securely in the seat and that protection is provided against the child's feet
hitting the spokes of the wheel, or in a seat attached to the bicycle operator.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 HITCHING RIDES.
   It is unlawful for any person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, roller blades, skate board, sled, or toy vehicle to attach the same or
themselves to any vehicle upon a street.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 WHERE TO RIDE.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a street shall ride as near to
the right side of the street as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a street shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of streets set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 RIGHT-OF-WAY; SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before
overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to carry any package,
bundle, or article which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand
upon the handlebars.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08 LIGHTING AND BRAKE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at night time, shall be equipped with, or
its operator shall carry a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front, and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type approved by the Department of Public Safety
which is visible from all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector. No person may, at any other time when
there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and
vehicles on the highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead, operate a bicycle
unless the bicycle or its operator is equipped with reflective surfaces that
shall be visible during the hours of darkness from 600 feet when viewed in
front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. The reflective
surfaces shall include reflective materials on each side of each pedal to
indicate their presence from the front or the rear and with a minimum of 20
square inches on each side of the bicycle or its operator of white reflective
material. All reflective materials used in compliance with this section shall
meet the requirements as prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.09 SALE WITH REFLECTORS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any new bicycle
unless it is equipped with such reflectors as are prescribed in §
74.08.
Penalty, see §
74.99
ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER SKIS AND SKATEBOARDS
§ 74.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. That part of the City so designated by council
resolution.
   OPERATE. To ride on or upon or control the operation of roller blades,
roller skates, or a skateboard.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of
roller blades, roller skates, or a skateboard.
   ROLLER BLADES/ROLLER SKATES. A shoe with wheels attached or a device with
wheels which is designed to be attached to a shoe.
   ROLLER SKIS. A pair of skis platformed with wheels attached which is
intended to simulate skiing.
   SKATEBOARD. A device for riding-upon, usually while standing, consisting of
an oblong piece of wood, or of other composition, mounted on skate wheels.
§ 74.26 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate roller blades, roller skates,
roller skis or a skateboard under the circumstances set forth hereafter:
      (1)   On any public sidewalk, street, or public parking lot within the
Business District;
      (2)   On private property of another without the express permission to do
so by the owner or occupant of the property; or
      (3)   In any careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger the safety of any person or property of any other person.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person operating roller blades, roller skates,
roller skis or a skateboard to attach the same, or the person of the operator,
to any vehicle upon a street.
   (C)   Every person operating roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or a
skateboard upon a street shall ride as close as possible to the right-hand curb
or edge of the street.
   (D)   Every person operating roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or a
skateboard upon a street shall observe the same rules of the road as required
of bicycles, pursuant to M.S. § 169.222.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.27 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The operator of roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or a skateboard
emerging from any alley, driveway, or building, upon approaching a sidewalk or
the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, shall yield the right-of-way
to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and upon
entering the street shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on
the street.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.28 HOURS OF USE.
   It is unlawful for any person to use roller blades, roller skates, roller
skis or a skateboard upon a public street, sidewalk, or other roadway from 10:
00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., except on private property with express permission of
owner, and except if the roller blades, roller skates, roller skis, skateboard
or operator are equipped with reflective surfaces that shall be visible during
the hours of darkness from 600 feet when viewed in front of lawful lower beams
of head lamps on a motor vehicle. The reflective material shall be a minimum of
40 square inches. All reflective materials used in compliance with this section
shall meet the requirements as prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 VIOLATIONS.
   A person apprehended by a peace officer in violation of the provisions of
this chapter does, by his or her use of the public sidewalks, streets, and
public parking lots, consent to the impoundment by a police officer of the
roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or skateboard for a period of three
days upon a first offense, a week upon the second offense and 30 days upon a
third or additional offense. Any operator aggrieved by the impoundment of his
or her roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or skateboard may petition the
Council for a hearing thereon at the next regular Council meeting following the
impoundment. This provision is in addition to the provisions for fines and
penalties as set forth in §
10.99.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED PROPERTY
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Disposition of abandoned property
Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.15   Findings and purpose
   
90.16   Definitions
   
90.17   Violation to abandon motor vehicle
   
90.18   Authority to impound vehicles
   
90.19   Sale; waiting periods
   
90.20   Notice of taking and sale
   
90.21   Right to reclaim
   
90.22   Operator's deficiency claim; consent to sale
   
90.23   Disposition by impound lot
   
90.24   Disposal authority
   
90.25   Contracts; reimbursement by MPCA
City Employee Purchase of Abandoned Property or Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.40   May purchase at auction
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Procedure. Except for abandoned and junked vehicles, all property
lawfully coming into possession of the city shall be disposed of as provided in
this section which is adopted pursuant to M.S. § 471.195, as it may be amended
from time to time. Abandoned and junked vehicles shall be disposed of according
to the procedures of §§
90.15 et seq.
   (B)   Storage. The department of the city acquiring possession of the
property shall arrange for its storage. If city facilities are unavailable or
inadequate, the department may arrange for storage at a privately-owned
facility.
   (C)   Claim by owner. The owner may claim the property by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the city any storage or maintenance
costs incurred by it. A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon release
to the owner.
   (D)   Sale. If the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the city
for 60 days, the property shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction conducted by the City Clerk or his or her designee after two weeks'
published notice setting forth the time and place of the sale and the property
to be sold.
   (E)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale shall be placed in
the general fund of the city. If the former owner makes application and
furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale, the
former owner shall be paid the proceeds of the sale of the property less the
costs of storage and the proportionate part of the cost of published notice and
other costs of the sale.
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.15 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   M.S. Ch. 168B, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7035, as they may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted by reference. Sections
90.15 through
90.25 of this code are adopted under the authority of M.S. § 168B.09, Subd. 2,
as it may be amended from time to time. If any of these provisions are less
stringent that the provisions of M.S. § 168B or Minn. Rules Ch. 7035, as it may
be amended from time to time, the statute or rule shall take precedence.
§ 90.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle, as defined in M.S. § 169.011, Subd. 42 as it may
be amended from time to time, that:
         (a)   Has remained illegally:
            1.   For a period of more than 48 hours on any property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, or more than four hours on that property
when it is properly posted; or
            2.   On private property for a period of time, as determined under
§
90.18(B), without the consent of the person in control of the property; and
         (b)   Lacks vital component parts or is in an inoperable condition
that it has no substantial potential for further use consistent with its usual
functions, unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building.
      (2)   A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. § 168.10 as it may
be amended from time to time, is not considered an abandoned vehicle.
      (3)   Vehicles on the premises of junk yards and automobile graveyards
that are defined, maintained, and licensed in accordance with M.S. § 161.242 as
it may be amended from time to time, or that are licensed and maintained in
accordance with local laws and zoning regulations, are not considered abandoned
vehicles.
      (4)   A vehicle being held for storage by agreement or being held under
police authority or pursuant to a writ or court order is not considered
abandoned, nor may it be processed as abandoned while the police hold, writ or
court order is in effect.
   DEPARTMENT. The Minnesota Department of Public Safety.
   IMPOUND. To take and hold a vehicle in legal custody. There are two types of
impounds: public and nonpublic.
    IMPOUND LOT OPERATOR or OPERATOR. A person who engages in impounding or
storing, usually temporarily, unauthorized or abandoned vehicles. OPERATOR
includes an operator of a public or nonpublic impound lot, regardless of
whether tow truck service is provided.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle that:
      (1)   Is three years old or older;
      (2)   Is extensively damaged, with the damage including things as broken
or missing wheels, motor, drive train or transmission;
      (3)   Is apparently inoperable;
      (4)   Does not have a valid, current registration plate; and
      (5)   Has an approximate fair market value equal only to the approximate
value of the scrap in it.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Has the meaning given “motor vehicle” in M.S. §
169.011, Subd. 42, as it may be amended from time to time.
   2010 Supp.
   MOTOR VEHICLE WASTE. Solid waste and liquid wastes derived in the operation
of or in the recycling of a motor vehicle, including such things as tires and
used motor oil, but excluding scrap metal.
   MPCA or AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NONPUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot that is not a public impound lot.
   PUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot owned by or contracting with a unit of
government under §
90.24.
   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is subject to removal and impoundment
pursuant to §
90.18(B), or M.S. § 168B.035 as it may be amended from time to time, but is not
a junk vehicle or an abandoned vehicle.
   UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. Includes a state department or agency, a special purpose
district, and a county, statutory or home rule charter city, or town.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of a motor vehicle that are essential to
the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including such things as the motor,
drive train and wheels.
§ 90.17 VIOLATION TO ABANDON MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Any person who abandons a motor vehicle on any public or private property,
without the consent of the person in control of the property, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Abandoned or junk vehicles. The City Clerk or his or her designee or
any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by the city may
take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk vehicle if the vehicle is
on public property. If the abandoned or junk vehicle is located on private
property, the vehicle shall not be removed or impounded until the provisions of
§
90.18(C) are complied with.
   (B)   Unauthorized vehicles. The City Clerk, or his or her designee or any
peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by the city may
take into custody and impound any unauthorized vehicle under M.S. § 168B.035 as
it may be amended from time to time. A vehicle may also be impounded after it
has been left unattended in one of the following public or private locations
for the indicated period of time:
      (1)   In a public location not governed by M.S. § 168B.035 as it may be
amended from time to time:
         (a)   On a highway and properly tagged by a peace officer, four hours;
         (b)   Located so as to constitute an accident or traffic hazard to the
traveling public, as determined by a peace officer, immediately; or
         (c)   That is a parking facility or other public property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, properly posted, four hours; or
      (2)   On private property, only with the express permission of the owner
of the property, a resident or other person in control of the premises:
         (a)   That is single-family or duplex residential property,
immediately;
         (b)   That is private, nonresidential property, properly posted,
immediately;
         (c)   That is private, nonresidential property, not posted, 24 hours;
or
         (d)   That is any residential property, properly posted, immediately.
      (3)   If under division (B)(2) of this section, permission is not
granted, then the city shall not remove and impound any vehicle until the
procedure established in division (C) of this section has been followed.
   (C)   If the vehicle is on private property, the City Clerk or his or her
designee or any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by
the city may take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk vehicle on
private property only with the permission of the owner of the property, a
resident, or other person in control of the premises. If permission is denied,
the city may declare the existence of the abandoned or junk vehicle to be a
nuisance and proceed to abate the nuisance as provided for in §§
92.15 through
92.21. Once the abatement procedure has been completed, the city may apply for
an order from a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing the removal and
impoundment of the vehicle and, after the order has been granted, the city may
then remove and impound the vehicle.
§ 90.19 SALE; WAITING PERIODS.
   (A)   Sale after 15 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under §
90.23, 15 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is determined to be:
      (1)   A junk vehicle, except that it may have a valid, current
registration plate and still be eligible for disposal or sale under this
subdivision; or
      (2)   An abandoned vehicle.
   (B)   Sale after 45 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under §
90.23, 45 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is determined to be an
unauthorized vehicle or upon the date of a voluntary written title transfer by
the registered owner to the impound lot operator.
§ 90.20 NOTICE OF TAKING AND SALE.
   (A)   Contents; notice given within five days. When an impounded vehicle is
taken into custody, the city or impound lot operator taking it into custody
shall give notice of the taking to the registered owner and any registered lien
holders within five days. The notice shall:
      (1)   Set forth the date and place of the taking; the year, make, model
and serial number of the impounded motor vehicle if the information can be
reasonably obtained; and the place where the vehicle is being held;
      (2)   Inform the owner and any lien holders of their right to reclaim the
vehicle under §
90.21; and
      (3)   State that failure of the owner or lien holders to exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle and contents within the appropriate time allowed
under §
90.19 shall be deemed a waiver by them of all right, title and interest in the
vehicle and contents and a consent to the transfer of title to and disposal or
sale of the vehicle and contents pursuant to §
90.23.
      (4)   State that the vehicle owner who provides to the impound lot
operator documentation from a government or nonprofit agency or legal aid
office that the owner is homeless, receives relief based on need, or is
eligible for legal aid services, has the unencumbered right to retrieve any and
all contents of the vehicle without charge.
   (B)   Notice by mail or publication. The notice shall be sent by mail to the
registered owner, if any, of an impounded vehicle and to all readily
identifiable lien holders of record. The Department makes this information
available to impound lot operators for notification purposes. If it is
impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and address of
the registered owner and all lien holders, the notice shall be published once
in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the motor vehicle was
towed from or abandoned. Published notices may be grouped together for
convenience and economy.
   (C)   Unauthorized vehicles; notice. If an unauthorized vehicle remains
unclaimed after 30 days from the date the notice was sent under division (B) of
this section, a second notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the registered owner, if any, of the unauthorized vehicle and to
all readily identifiable lien holders of record.
§ 90.21 RIGHT TO RECLAIM.
   (A)   Payment of charges. The owner or any lien holder of an impounded
vehicle shall have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the city or impound lot
operator taking it into custody upon payment of all towing and storage charges
resulting from taking the vehicle into custody within 15 or 45 days, as
applicable under §
90.19, after the date of the notice required by §
90.20.
   (B)   Lien holders. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair any
lien of a garagekeeper under the laws of this state, or the right of a lien
holder to foreclose. For the purposes of this section, GARAGEKEEPER is an
operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle
storage facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair
or maintenance of motor vehicles.
   (C)   At any time before the expiration of the waiting periods provided in §
90.21 a registered owner who provides documentation from a government or
nonprofit agency or legal aid office that the registered owner is homeless,
receives relief based on need, or is eligible for legal aid service, has the
unencumbered right to retrieve any and all contents without charge and
regardless of whether the registered owner pays incurred charges or fees,
transfers title, or reclaims the vehicle. For the purposes of this section:
      (1)   CONTENTS does not include any permanently affixed mechanical or
nonmechanical automobile parts; automobile body parts; or automobile
accessories, including audio or video players; and
      (2)   RELIEF BASED ON NEED includes, but is not limited to, receipt of
MFIP and Diversionary Work Program, medical assistance, general assistance,
general assistance medical care, emergency general assistance, Minnesota
supplemental aid, MSA-emergency assistance, MinnesotaCare, Supplemental
Security Income, energy assistance, emergency assistance, Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program, earned income tax credit, or Minnesota working
family tax credit. The city or impound lot operator shall establish reasonable
procedures for retrieval of vehicle contents under this section, and may
establish reasonable procedures to protect the safety and security of the
impound lot and its personnel.
§ 90.22 OPERATOR'S DEFICIENCY CLAIM; CONSENT TO SALE.
   (A)   Deficiency claim. The nonpublic impound lot operator has a deficiency
claim against the registered owner of the vehicle for the reasonable costs of
services provided in the towing, storage and inspection of the vehicle minus
the proceeds of the sale or auction. The claim for storage costs may not exceed
the costs of:
      (1)   25 days storage for a vehicle described in §
90.19(A); and
      (2)   55 days storage for a vehicle described in §
90.19(B).
   (B)   Implied consent to sale. A registered owner who fails to claim the
impounded vehicle within the applicable time period allowed under §
90.19 is deemed to waive any right to reclaim the vehicle and consents to the
disposal or sale of the vehicle and its contents and transfer of title. The
failure to exercise rights to claim contents under §
90.21(C) constitutes a waiver of all right, title and interest in the contents
of the vehicle and a consent to the transfer of title to and disposal or sale
of the contents.
§ 90.23 DISPOSITION BY IMPOUND LOT.
   (A)   Auction or sale.
      (1)   If an abandoned or unauthorized vehicle and contents taken into
custody by the city or any impound lot is not reclaimed under §
90.21, it may be disposed of or sold at auction or sale when eligible pursuant
to §§
90.20 and
90.21.
      (2)   The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the
vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the vehicle
and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and claims of
ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it must
receive a motor vehicle safety check.
   (B)   Unsold vehicles. Abandoned or junk vehicles not sold by the city or
public impound lots pursuant to division (A) of this section shall be disposed
of in accordance with §
90.24.
   (C)   Sale proceeds; public entities. From the proceeds of a sale under this
section by the city or public impound lot of an abandoned or unauthorized motor
vehicle, the city shall reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving and
storing the vehicle, and all administrative, notice and publication costs
incurred in handling the vehicle pursuant to this chapter. Any remainder from
the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the owner of the vehicle or entitled
lienholder for 90 days and then shall be deposited in the treasury of the city.
   (D)   Sale proceeds; nonpublic impound lots. The operator of a nonpublic
impound lot may retain any proceeds derived from a sale conducted under the
authority of division (A) of this section. The operator may retain all proceeds
from sale of any personal belongings and contents in the vehicle that were not
claimed by the owner or the owner's agent before the sale, except that any
suspected contraband or other items that likely would be subject to forfeiture
in a criminal trial must be turned over to the appropriate law enforcement
agency.
§ 90.24 DISPOSAL AUTHORITY.
   The city may contract with others or may utilize its own equipment and
personnel for the inventory of impounded motor vehicles and abandoned scrap
metal and may utilize its own equipment and personnel for the collection,
storage and transportation of these vehicles and abandoned scrap metal. The
city may utilize its own equipment and personnel only for the collection and
storage of not more than five abandoned or unauthorized vehicles without
advertising for or receiving bids in any 120-day period.
§ 90.25 CONTRACTS; REIMBURSEMENT BY MPCA.
   (A)   MPCA review and approval. If the city proposes to enter into a
contract with a person licensed by the MPCA pursuant to this section or a
contract pursuant to §
90.24, the MPCA may review the proposed contract before it is entered into by
the city, to determine whether it conforms to the MPCA's plan for solid waste
management and is in compliance with MPCA rules. A contract that does so
conform may be approved by the MPCA and entered into by the city. Where a
contract has been approved, the MPCA may reimburse the city for the costs
incurred under the contract that have not been reimbursed under §
90.23. Except as otherwise provided in §
90.24, the MPCA shall not approve any contract that has been entered into
without prior notice to and without a request for bids from all persons duly
licensed by the MPCA to be a party to a disposal contract pursuant to M.S. §
116.07, as it may be amended from time to time; nor that does not provide for a
full performance bond; or does not provide for total collection and
transportation of abandoned motor vehicles, except that the MPCA may approve a
contract covering solely collection or transportation of abandoned motor
vehicles where the MPCA determines total collection and transportation to be
impracticable and where all other requirements herein have been met and the
unit of government, after proper notice and request for bids, has not received
any bid for total collection and transportation of abandoned motor vehicles.
   (B)    The city may perform work. If the city utilizes its own equipment and
personnel pursuant to its authority under §
90.24, and the use of the equipment and personnel conforms to the MPCA's plan
for solid waste management and is in compliance with MPCA rules, the city may
be reimbursed by the MPCA for reasonable costs incurred which are not
reimbursed under §
90.23.
   (C)   The city required to contract work. The MPCA may demand that the city
contract for the disposal of abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap metal
pursuant to the MPCA's plan for solid waste disposal. If the city fails to
contract within 180 days of the demand, the MPCA, through the Department of
Administration and on behalf of the city, may contract with any person duly
licensed by the MPCA for the disposal.
CITY EMPLOYEE PURCHASE OF ABANDONED PROPERTY OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.40 MAY PURCHASE AT AUCTION.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 15.054, as it may be amended from time to time, no
officer or employee of the city shall sell or procure for sale or possess or
control for sale to any other officer or employee of the city, any property or
materials owned by the city except pursuant to conditions provided in this
section. Property or materials owned by the city and not needed for public
purposes, may be sold to an employee of the city after reasonable public notice
at a public auction or by sealed response, if the employee is not directly
involved in the auction or process pertaining to the administration and
collection of sealed responses. Prior to such auction or collection of sealed
responses, public notice of at least one week’s published notice must be
provided. An employee of the city may purchase no more than one motor vehicle
from the city at any one auction. This section shall not apply to the sale of
property or materials acquired or produced by the city for sale to the general
public in the ordinary course of business. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit an employee of the city from selling or possessing for sale public
property if the sale or possession for sale is in the ordinary course of
business or normal course of the employee’s duties.
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Dogs and cats
   
91.03   Non-domestic animals
   
91.04   Farm animals
   
91.05   Impounding
   
91.06   Kennels
   
91.07   Nuisances
   
91.08   Seizure of animals
   
91.09   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
91.10   Diseased animals
   
91.11   Dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs
   
91.12   Dangerous animals (excluding dogs)
   
91.13   Basic care
   
91.14   Breeding moratorium
   
91.15   Enforcing officer
   
91.16   Pound
   
91.17   Interference with officers
   
91.18   Fighting animals
   
91.19   Feeding stray cats and dogs
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, farm
animals shall include members of the equine family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, ratitae (ostriches
and emus), farm raised cervidae (caribous and mule deer), llamas and alpacas
and other animals associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, non-domestic animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
    CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Animal Control Officer or other
person in charge of the pound for the release of any animal that has been taken
to the pound. A release permit may be obtained upon payment of a fee to the
City Clerk in accordance with the regular license requirement if the animal is
unlicensed, payment of a release fee, and any maintenance costs incurred in
capturing and impounding the animal. The release fee shall be as established in
the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 91.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A
person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a
responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a
responsible person, so as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash,
shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the city has posted an
area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited.”
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   All dogs over the age of six months kept, harbored, or maintained
by their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with the city.
Dog licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk upon payment of the license fee
as established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant
to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time. The
owner shall state, at the time application is made for the license and upon
forms provided, his or her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex
of each dog owned or kept by him or her. No license shall be granted for a dog
that has not been vaccinated against distemper and rabies, as evidenced by a
certificate by a veterinarian qualified to practice in the state in which the
dog is vaccinated.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog subject to this section
to pay to the City Clerk the license fee established in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Upon payment of the license fee as established by the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time, the
Clerk shall issue to the owner a license certificate and metallic tag for each
dog licensed. The tag shall have stamped on it the year for which it is issued
and the number corresponding with the number on the certificate. Every owner
shall be required to provide each dog with a collar to which the license tag
must be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag are constantly worn. In
case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall be issued by the City
Clerk. A charge shall be made for each duplicate tag in an amount established
in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11, as it may be amended from time to time. Dog tags shall not be
transferable from one dog to another and no refunds shall be made on any dog
license fee or tag because of death of a dog or the owner's leaving the city
before the expiration of the license period.
      (4)   The licensing provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to
dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city, nor to dogs
brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog show. Service
animals do not require a license.
      (5)   The funds received by the City Clerk from all dog licenses and
metallic tags fees as established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time, shall
first be used to defray any costs incidental to the enforcement of this
chapter; including, but not restricted to, the costs of licenses, metallic
tags, and impounding and maintenance of the dogs.
   (C)   Cats. Cats shall be included as controlled by this division insofar as
running-at-large, pickup, impounding, boarding, licensing and proof of anti-
rabies vaccine is concerned. All other provisions of this section shall also
apply to cats unless otherwise provided.
   (D)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported within
the city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
         (a)   Rabies of the modified live vaccine type; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept stating the date of
vaccination, owner's name and address, the animal's name (if applicable), sex,
description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the veterinarian's signature.
Upon demand made by the City Clerk, the Animal Control Officer or a police
officer, the owner shall present for examination the required certificate(s) of
vaccination for the animal(s). In cases where certificates are not presented,
the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have seven days in which to present
the certificate(s) to the City Clerk or officer. Failure to do so shall be
deemed a violation of this section.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   Except as provided in M.S.§ 346.155, as it may be amended from time to time,
it shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for sale,
any non-domestic animal within the city. Any owner of a non-domestic animal at
the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to remove the
animal from the city after which time the city may impound the animal as
provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this prohibition
for animals specifically trained for and actually providing assistance to the
handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into the city as part of
an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research laboratory, or a
licensed show or exhibition.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the city, or
on a residential lot of at least ten acres in size provided that no animal
shelter shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining piece of property. An
exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought into the city
as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
§ 91.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any unlicensed animal running at large is hereby
declared a public nuisance. Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may
impound any dog or other animal found unlicensed or any animal found running at
large and shall give notice of the impounding to the owner of the dog or other
animal, if known. The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter
the property of the owner of an animal found running at large or the owner of
an unlicensed animal unless the officer has first obtained the permission of
the owner to do so or has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal. In case the owner is unknown, the
officer shall post notice at the city office that if the dog or other animal is
not claimed within the time specified in division (C) of this section, it will
be sold or otherwise disposed of. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
it shall be unlawful to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause injury to any animal,
including dogs and cats running at large.
   (B)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the city pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner's choosing, not outside of the county in which this city is located, and
provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be required, the
owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner's property.
   (C)   Reclaiming. For the purposes of this section regular business day
means a day during which the establishment having custody of the animal is open
to the public at least four consecutive hours between 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with humane treatment and
sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five regular business
days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under §
91.11 in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the
times specified in §
91.11, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as
established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to
§
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
      (2)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as
established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to
§
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time, and
valid certificate of vaccination for rabies and distemper shots is required.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (C) of this section, if the animal has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer appointed to
enforce this section may dispose of the unclaimed animal in a manner permitted
by law. Any money collected under this section shall be payable to the City
Clerk.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition of kennel. The keeping of three or more dogs on the same
premises, whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose
kept, shall constitute a “kennel”; except that a fresh litter of pups may be
kept for a period of three months before that keeping shall be deemed to be a
“kennel.”
   (B)   Kennel as a nuisance. Because the keeping of three or more dogs on the
same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons in the
area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic depreciation, the
keeping of three or more dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel within the city.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person's dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Warrant required. The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall
not enter the property of the owner of an animal described in this section
unless the officer has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or
has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided
for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal.
§ 91.08 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal with the permission of the owner of the property, if that
person is also the owner of the animal, provided that the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
91.07(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in §
91.13; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
91.02(A);
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
animal and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed or
have been ignored;
   (E)   The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter the
property of the owner of an animal described in this section unless the officer
has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has obtained a
warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal. If the officer has the permission of
the owner, a property manager, landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person
to enter the property or has obtained a pass key from a property manager,
landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person to have that key shall not be
considered unauthorized entry, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal
need not be obtained; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the animal is not possible.
§ 91.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or the Animal Control Officer or
police officer, an animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety
of any person, or the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the
animal is in the process of attacking any person, the person or officer may
destroy the animal in a proper and humane manner whether or not the animal is
on the property of its owner. Otherwise, the person or officer may apprehend
the animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement under §
91.05. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the animal destroyed
shall be liable to the city for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the animal is found
not to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to
the owner or keeper in accordance with §
91.05(C).
§ 91.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal is not required.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the Animal Control Officer or a police
officer. The officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If
the animal is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the
health and safety of the city, the officer shall cause the animal to be
painlessly killed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or
keeper of the animal killed under this section shall be liable to the city for
the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any
veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
the regulatory and procedural provisions of M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565 (commonly
referred to as the “Dangerous Dog Regulations”), are adopted by reference.
   (B)   Definitions. Definitions in this section shall have the following
meanings:
      (1)   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has when unprovoked, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal when unprovoked while off the
owner's property;
         (c)   Has attacked one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (d)   Has been found to be potentially dangerous and after the owner
has notice of the same, the dog aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   DOG.  Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly
accepted as domesticated household pets.
      (3)   GREAT BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which creates a high probability
of death, or which causes serious permanent disfigurement, or which causes a
permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member
or organ or other serious bodily harm.
      (4)   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, corporation, organization,
department, or association owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, having an
interest in, or having care, custody or control of a dog.
      (5)   MAINTENANCE COSTS. Any costs incurred as a result of seizing an
animal for impoundment, including, but not limited to, the capturing,
impounding, keeping, treating, examining, securing, confining, feeding,
destroying, boarding or maintaining seized animals, whether these services are
provided by the city or the pound.
      (6)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has when unprovoked, inflicted a bite on a human or domestic
animal on public or private property;
         (b)   Has when unprovoked, chased or approached a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks or any public or private
property, other than the owner's property, in an apparent attitude of attack;
or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (7)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the dog from escaping
and to provide protection for the dog from the elements. A proper enclosure
does not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other
structure that would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the dog from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the dog in any manner without human assistance. A pen or kennel
shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   A minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support post shall be one and one-fourth inch or larger steel pipe
buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided,
the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and openings in the wire shall not exceed two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches. The gate shall be self-closing and self-locking. The gate shall be
locked at all times when the dog is in the pen or kennel.
      (8)   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Bodily injury that involves a temporary
but substantial disfigurement, or that causes a temporary but substantial loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ or that causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
      (9)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the dog is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (C)   Declaration of dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
      (1)   A police officer, community service officer, animal control officer
or other authorized city employee may declare a dog to be dangerous or
potentially dangerous when the officer has probable cause to believe that a dog
is dangerous or potentially dangerous. The following factors will be considered
in determining a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog:
         (a)   Whether any injury or damage to a person by the dog was caused
while the dog was protecting or defending a person or the dog's offspring
within the immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault.
         (b)   The size and strength of the dog, including jaw strength, and
the animal's propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals.
         (c)   Whether the dog has wounds, scarring, is observed in a fight, or
has other indications that the dog has been or will be used, trained or
encouraged to fight with another animal or whose owner is in possession of any
training apparatus, paraphernalia or drugs used to prepare such dogs to fight
with other animals.
      (2)   Beginning six months after a dog is declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous, an owner may request annually that the city review the
designation. The owner must provide evidence that the dog's behavior has
changed due to the dog's age, neutering, environment, completion of obedience
training or other factors. If enough evidence is provided, the city may rescind
the designation.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   The provisions of this section do not apply to dogs used by law
enforcement.
         (b)   Dogs may not be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous if
the threat, injury, or danger was sustained by a person who was:
            1.   Committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner of the dog;
            2.   Provoking, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or who
can be shown to have a history of repeatedly provoking, tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the dog; or
            3.   Committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (D)   License required. The owner must annually license dangerous and
potentially dangerous dogs with the city and must license a newly declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within 14 days after notice that a dog
has been declared dangerous or potentially dangerous. Regardless of any appeal
that may be requested, the owner must comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52 (a) and (c) regarding proper enclosures and notification to the city
upon transfer or death of the dog, until and unless a hearing officer or court
of law reverses the declaration.
      (1)   Process for dangerous dogs. The city will issue a license to the
owner of a dangerous dog if the owner presents sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   Written proof that there is a surety bond by a surety company
authorized to conduct business in Minnesota in the sum of at least $300,000,
payable to any person injured by a dangerous dog, or receipt of a copy of a
policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance company authorized to do
business in Minnesota in the amount of at least $300,000, insuring the owner
for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog. Such surety bond or
insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the bond or policy will
be made unless the city is notified in writing by the surety company or the
insurance company at least ten days prior to such cancellation;
         (c)   The owner has paid the annual license fee for dangerous dogs as
established in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to
§
30.11 of this Code.
         (d)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification number
of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the microchip is not
implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the owner's expense;
and
         (e)   The owner provides proof that the dog has been sterilized. If
the owner does not sterilize the dog within 30 days, the city may seize the dog
and sterilize it at the owner's expense.
      (2)   Process for potentially dangerous dogs. The city will issue a
license to the owner of a potentially dangerous dog if the owner presents
sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   The owner has paid the annual license fee;
         (c)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
potentially dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and
identification number of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the
microchip is not implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the
owner's expense.
      (3)   Inspection. A pre-license inspection of the premises to insure
compliance with the city code is required. If the city issues a license to the
owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, the city shall be allowed at
any reasonable time to inspect the dog, the proper enclosure and all places
where the animal is kept.
      (4)   Warning symbol. The owner of a dangerous dog licensed under this
section must post a sign with the uniform dangerous dog warning symbol on the
property in order to inform children that there is a dangerous dog on the
property. The sign will be provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (5)   Tags. A dangerous dog licensed under this section must wear a
standardized, easily identifiable tag at all times that contains the uniform
dangerous dog symbol, identifying the dog as dangerous. The tag shall be
provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (6)   License fee. The city will charge the owner an annual license fee
for a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog as established in the Ordinance to
Establish Fees and Charges as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Properly restrained in proper enclosure or outside of proper
enclosure. While on the owner's property, an owner of a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog must keep it in a proper enclosure. Inside a
residential home, there must be a secured area maintained where the dog will
stay when persons other than family members are present. If the dog is outside
the proper enclosure, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial
chain or leash no longer than four feet and under the physical restraint of an
adult. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will prevent the dog from
biting any person or animal but that will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration.
   (F)   Notification requirements to city.
      (1)   Relocation or death. The owner of a dog that has been declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous must notify the City Clerk in writing if the
dog is to be relocated from its current address or if the dog has died. The
notification must be given in writing within 30 days of the relocation or
death. The notification must include the current owner's name and address, and
the new owner's name and the relocation address. If the relocation address is
outside of the city, the city may notify the local law enforcement agency of
the transfer of the dog into its jurisdiction.
      (2)   Renter's obligations. A person who owns or possess a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog and who will rent property from another where the dog
will reside must disclose to the property owner prior to entering the lease
agreement and at the time of any lease renewal periods that the person owns or
possesses a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog that will reside at the
property. A dog owner, who is currently renting property, must notify the
property owner within 14 days of city notification if the owned dog is newly
declared as dangerous or potentially dangerous and the owner keeps the dog on
the property.
      (3)   Transfer of ownership into the city. No dog that has been
previously determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous by another
jurisdiction shall be kept, owned or harbored in the city unless the dog's
owner complies with the requirements of this section prior to bringing the dog
into the city. Dogs in violation of this division are subject to impoundment
and destruction.
   (G)   Seizure. Animal control may immediately seize any dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog if:
      (1)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous, the dog is not validly licensed and no
appeal has been filed;
      (2)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or surety coverage as
required or such required insurance is cancelled;
      (3)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure;
      (4)   The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under proper
restraint, as required by §
91.11(E);
      (5)   After 30 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the dog is not sterilized, as required by §
91.11(D)(1)(e);
      (6)   The dog's microchip has been removed.
   (H)   Reclamation. A dog seized under §
91.11(G) may be reclaimed by the owner of the dog upon payment of maintenance
costs, and presenting proof to animal control that the requirements of this
section have been met. A dog not reclaimed under this division within seven
days may be disposed of and the owner will be liable to the city for
maintenance costs. A person claiming an interest in a seized dog may prevent
disposition of the dog by posting a security in an amount sufficient to provide
for the dog's maintenance costs. The security must be posted with the city
within seven days of the seizure inclusive of the date seized.
   (I)   Subsequent offenses: seizure. If a person has been convicted of
violating a provision of this section, and the person is charged with a
subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog may be seized. If the
owner is convicted of the crime for which the dog was seized, the court may
order that the dog be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner pay
the maintenance costs. If the owner is not convicted and the dog is not
reclaimed by the owner within seven days after the owner has been notified that
the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be disposed of in manner permitted by
law.
   (J)   Notice, hearings.
      (1)   Notice. After a dog has been declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous or has been seized for destruction, the city shall give notice by
delivering or mailing it to the owner of the dog, or by posting a copy of it at
the place where the dog is kept, or by delivering it to a person residing on
the property, and telephoning, if possible. The notice shall include:
         (a)   A description of the seized dog; the authority for and purpose
of the declaration and seizure; the time, place, and circumstances under which
the dog was declared; and the telephone number and contact person where the dog
is kept;
         (b)   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the declaration and that failure to do so within 14 days of the date
of the notice will terminate the owner's right to a hearing;
         (c)   A statement that if an appeal request is made within 14 days of
the notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52, paragraphs (a) and (c) regarding proper enclosures and notification to
the city upon transfer or death of the dog, until such time as the hearing
officer issues an opinion;
         (d)   A statement that if the hearing officer affirms the dangerous
dog declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that decision to
comply with all other requirements of M.S. § 347.51, 347.515, and 347.52;
         (e)   A form to request a hearing; and
         (f)   A statement that if the dog has been seized, all maintenance
costs of the care, keeping, and disposition of the dog pending the outcome of
the hearing are the responsibility of the owner, unless a court or hearing
officer finds that the seizure or impoundment was not reasonably justified by
law.
      (2)   Right to hearing.
         (a)   After a dog has been declared dangerous, potentially dangerous
or has been seized for destruction, the owner may appeal in writing to the city
within 14 days after notice of the declaration or seizure. Failure to do so
within 14 days of the date of the notice will terminate the owner's right to a
hearing. The owner must pay a $100 fee for an appeal hearing.
         (b)   The appeal hearing will be held within 14 days of the request.
The hearing officer must be an impartial employee of the city or an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
         (c)   If the declaration or destruction is upheld by the hearing
officer, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000, as well as
all maintenance costs, will be the responsibility of the dog's owner. The
hearing officer shall issue a decision on the matter within ten days after the
hearing. The decision shall be delivered to the dog's owner by hand delivery or
registered mail as soon as practical and a copy shall be provided to the city.
The decision of the hearing officer is final.
   (K)   Destruction of certain dogs. The Police Chief and/or hearing officer
are authorized to order the destruction or other disposition of any dog, after
proper notice is given pursuant to §
91.11(J) and upon a finding that:
      (1)   The dog has habitually destroyed property or habitually trespassed
in a damaging manner on property of persons other than the owner;
      (2)   The dog has been declared dangerous, the owner's right to appeal
hereunder has been exhausted or expired, and the owner has failed to comply
with the provisions of this section;
      (3)   It is determined that the dog is infected with rabies;
      (4)   The dog inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on
public or private property without provocation;
      (5)   The dog inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private
property without provocation;
      (6)   The dog bit multiple human victims on public or private property in
the same attack without provocation;
      (7)   The dog bit a human on public or private property without
provocation in an attack where more than one dog participated in the attack; or
      (8)   The dog poses a danger to the public's health, safety or welfare.
In determining whether the dog poses a danger to the public's health, safety or
welfare, the following factors may be considered:
         (a)   The dog weighs more than 20 pounds;
         (b)   The strength of the dog, including jaw strength;
         (c)   The dog's tolerance for pain;
         (d)   The dog's tendency to refuse to terminate an attack;
         (e)   The dog's propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals;
         (f)   The dog's potential for unpredictable behavior;
         (g)   The dog's aggressiveness;
         (h)   The likelihood that a bite by the dog will result in serious
injury.
   (L)   Concealing of dogs. No person may harbor, hide or conceal a dog that
the city has the authority to seize or that has been ordered into custody for
destruction or other proper disposition.
   (M)   Dog ownership prohibited.
      (1)   Except as provided below, a person shall not own a dog if the
person has been:
         (a)   Convicted of a third or subsequent violation of §
91.11(D), (E) or (F) or similar ordinance in another jurisdiction, or M.S. §§
347.51, 347.515 or 347.52;
         (b)   Convicted of 2nd degree manslaughter due to negligent or
intentional use of a dog under M.S. § 609.205 (4); or
         (c)   Convicted of gross misdemeanor harm caused by a dog under M.S. §
609.226, Subd. d.
      (2)   Any person who owns a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog and is
found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this section or had owned
a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog but never achieved compliance with
this section may be prohibited from ownership or custody of another dog for a
period of five years after the original declaration. Any dog found to be in
violation, may be impounded until due process is completed, pursuant to §
91.11(J).
      (3)   If any member of a household is prohibited from owning a dog in §
91.11(M)(1) or (2), unless specifically approved with or without restrictions
by the city, no person in the household is permitted to own a dog.
   (N)   Dog ownership prohibition review. Beginning three years after a
conviction under §
91.11(M)(1) that prohibits a person from owning a dog, and annually thereafter,
the person may request in writing to the Police Chief that the city review the
prohibition. The city may consider such facts as the seriousness of the
violation or violations that led to the prohibition, any criminal convictions,
or other facts that the city deems appropriate. The city may rescind the
prohibition entirely or rescind it with limitations. The city also may
establish conditions a person must meet before the prohibition is rescinded,
including, but not limited to, successfully completing dog training or dog
handling courses. If the city rescinds a person's prohibition and the person
subsequently fails to comply with any limitations imposed by the city or the
person is convicted of any animal violation involving unprovoked bites or dog
attacks, the city may permanently prohibit the person from owning a dog in this
state.
   (O)   Penalties.
      (1)   Unless stated otherwise, any person who violates a provision of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who is convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
any provision of §
91.11(D), (E), or (F) is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.
      (3)   Any person who violates §
91.11(M), whether an owner or household member, is guilty of a gross
misdemeanor.
§ 91.12 DANGEROUS ANIMALS (EXCLUDING DOGS).
   (A)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person's animal to
inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to dogs as
regulated by §
91.11.
   (B)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance with
the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  An animal which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE.  Securely confined indoors or in a securely
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to
provide protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does
not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure
that would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not
allow the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be 1¼-inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      (4)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
      (1)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)
(1).
      (2)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Animal Control
Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain an
order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal from
a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already in custody or
the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk’s
office shall be admissible for consideration by the Animal Control Officer
without further foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining to the
temperament of the animal, the City Council shall make an order as it deems
proper. The City Council may order that the Animal Control Officer take the
animal into custody for destruction, if the animal is not currently in custody.
If the animal is ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall
immediately make the animal available to the Animal Control Officer. If the
owner does not immediately make the animal available, the Animal Control
Officer shall obtain an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the
destruction of the animal from a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner's name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
   (J)   Dangerous animal requirements.
      (1)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of
an animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
         (a)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in §
91.12(C)(3);
         (b)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property;
         (c)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
         (d)   If the animal is outside the proper enclosure, the animal must
be muzzled (if physically possible depending on the type of animal) and
restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed six feet in length)
and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of age or older. The
muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the animal from biting any person or
animal, but will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration;
         (e)   The animal shall have a microchip implant as provided by M.S. §
347.515, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (f)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer shall
be registered with the county in which this city is located within 14 days
after the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof
to the Animal Control Officer.
         (g)   If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date with
rabies vaccination.
      (2)   Seizure. As authorized by M.S. § 347.54, as it may be amended from
time to time, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any dangerous
animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements within 14 days
after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is dangerous.
Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and petition
upon the city and filing it with the district court.
      (3)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under §
91.12(J)(2), may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each
of the requirements under §
91.12(J)(1), is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within 14
days may be disposed of as provided under §
91.12(F), and the owner is liable to the city for costs incurred in confining
and impounding the animal.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
91.12 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by animal control. The
owner may request a hearing as defined in §
91.12(G). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall order the animal destroyed
in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining
the animal. If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for
which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the
provisions of §
91.12(J)(3). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days
after the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the
animal may be disposed of as provided under §
91.12(F) and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred
in confining, impounding and disposing of the animal.
§ 91.13 BASIC CARE.
   (A)   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating their pet in a humane manner will be subject to the
penalties provided in this section.
   (B)   Dogs and cats. Dogs and cats must be provided the following basic
care.
      (1)   Food. Dogs and cats must be provided with food of sufficient
quantity and quality to allow for normal growth or the maintenance of body
weight. Feed standards shall be those recommended by the National Research
Council.
      (2)   Water. Dogs and cats must be provided with clean, potable water in
sufficient quantity to satisfy the animal's needs or supplied by free choice.
Snow or ice is not an adequate water source.
      (3)   Transportation and shipment. When dogs or cats are transported in
crates or containers, the crates or containers must be constructed of
nonabrasive wire or a smooth, durable material suitable for the animals. Crates
and containers must be clean, adequately ventilated, contain sufficient space
to allow the animals to turn around, and provide maximum safety and protection
to the animals. Exercise for 20 to 30 minutes and water must be provided at
least once every eight hours. Food must be provided at least once every 24
hours or more often, if necessary, to maintain the health and condition of the
animals.
      (4)   Shelter size. A confinement area must provide sufficient space to
allow each animal to turn about freely and to easily stand, sit, and lie in a
normal position. Each confined animal must be provided a minimum square footage
of floor space as measured from the tip of its nose to the base of its tail,
plus 25%, expressed in square feet. The formula for computing minimum square
footage is: (length of animal plus 25%) times (length of animal plus 25%),
divided by 144. A shaded area must be provided sufficient to protect the animal
from the direct rays of the sun at all times during the months of May to
October.
      (5)   Exercise. All dogs and cats must be provided the opportunity for
periodic exercise, either through free choice or through a forced work program,
unless exercise is restricted by a licensed veterinarian.
      (6)   Group housing and breeding. Animals housed together must be kept in
compatible groups. Animals must not be bred so often as to endanger their
health.
      (7)   Temperature. Confinement areas must be maintained at a temperature
suitable for the animal involved.
      (8)   Ventilation. An indoor confinement area must be ventilated. Drafts,
odors, and moisture condensation must be minimized. Auxiliary ventilation, such
as exhaust fans, vents, and air conditioning, must be used when the ambient
temperature rises to a level that may endanger the health of the animal.
      (9)   Lighting. An indoor confinement area must have at least eight hours
of illumination sufficient to permit routine inspection and cleaning.
      (10)   Confinement and exercise area surfaces. Where applicable, the
interior surfaces of confinement and exercise areas, including crates or
containers, must be constructed and maintained so that they are substantially
impervious to moisture and may be readily cleaned. They must protect the animal
from injury and be kept in good repair.
      (11)   Drainage. Where applicable, a suitable method must be used to
rapidly eliminate excess fluids from confinement areas.
      (12)   Sanitation. Food and water receptacles must be accessible to each
animal and located so as to minimize contamination by excreta. Feeding and
water receptacles must be kept clean. Disposable food receptacles must be
discarded when soiled. Measures must be taken to protect animals from being
contaminated with water, wastes, and harmful chemicals. Wastes must be disposed
of properly. Where applicable, flushing methods and a disinfectant must be used
periodically. Bedding, if used, must be kept clean and dry. Outdoor enclosures
must be kept clean and base material replaced as necessary.
   (C)   Birds, rodent other animals. Basic care provided to pet and companion
animal birds, rodents and other shall be consistent with M.S. § 346.40, §
346.41 and § 346.42, as those statutes may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Dogs and cats in motor vehicles.
      (1)   Unattended dogs or cats. A person may not leave a dog or a cat
unattended in a standing or parked motor vehicle in a manner that endangers the
dog's or cat's health or safety.
      (2)   Removal of dogs or cats. A peace officer, as defined in M.S. §
626.84, as it may be amended from time to time, a humane agent, a dog warden,
or a volunteer or professional member of a fire or rescue department of the
city may use reasonable force to enter a motor vehicle and remove a dog or cat
which has been left in the vehicle in violation of (D)(1). A person removing a
dog or a cat under this division shall use reasonable means to contact the
owner of the dog or cat to arrange for its return home. If the person is unable
to contact the owner, the person may take the dog or cat to an animal shelter.
   (E)   Dog houses. A person in charge or control of any dog which is kept
outdoors or in an unheated enclosure shall provide the dog with shelter and
bedding as prescribed in this section as a minimum.
      (1)   Building specifications. The shelter shall include a moisture proof
and windproof structure of suitable size to accommodate the dog and allow
retention of body heat. It shall be made of durable material with a solid,
moisture proof floor or a floor raised at least two inches from the ground.
Between November 1 and March 31 the structure must have a windbreak at the
entrance. The structure shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of
suitable bedding material consisting of hay, straw, cedar shavings, blankets,
or the equivalent, to provide insulation and protection against cold and
dampness and promote retention of body heat.
      (2)   Shade. Shade from the direct rays of the sun, during the months of
May to October shall be provided.
      (3)   Farm dogs. In lieu of the requirements of (E)(1) and (E)(2), a dog
kept on a farm may be provided with access to a barn with a sufficient quantity
of loose hay or bedding to protect against cold and dampness.
§ 91.14 BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in a manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog or
cat except for planned breeding. Upon capture and failure to reclaim the
animal, every dog or cat shall be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred
to a new owner.
§ 91.15 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council is hereby authorized to appoint an animal control officer(s) to
enforce the provisions of this section. In the officer's duty of enforcing the
provisions of this section, he or she may from time to time, with the consent
of the City Council, designate assistants.
§ 91.16 POUND.
   Every year the Council shall designate an official pound to which animals
found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment, and if
necessary, for destruction.
§ 91.17 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and
convey them to the pound while engaged in that operation. Nor shall any
unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or
attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance
with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 FIGHTING ANIMALS.
   (A)   The provisions of M.S. § 343.31, as it may be amended from time to
time, are adopted herein by reference.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Promote, engage in, or be employed in the activity of cockfighting,
dogfighting, or violent pitting of one pet or companion animal as defined in
M.S. § 346.36, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time, against another
of the same or a different kind;
      (2)   Receive money for the admission of a person to a place used, or
about to be used, for that activity;
      (3)   Willfully permit a person to enter or use for that activity
premises of which the permitter is the owner, agent, or occupant; or
      (4)   Use, train, or possess a dog or other animal for the purpose of
participating in, engaging in, or promoting that activity.
      (5)   Purchase a ticket of admission or otherwise gain admission to the
activity of cockfighting, dogfighting, or violent pitting of one pet or
companion animal against another of the same or a different kind.
§ 91.19 FEEDING STRAY CATS AND DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   FEED or FEEDING means the placing of dog or cat food, or similar
food products or consumable materials attractive to dogs and cats, which may
result in dogs and cats congregating thereon on a regular basis, placed on the
ground, in an obviously intended feeder, or in a feeder at a height accessible
to cats and dogs.
      (2)   STRAY means an unlicensed domestic or feral dog or cat running at
large and unaccompanied or controlled by an owner.
   (B)   Policy and purpose. High populations of stray dogs and cats pose a
hazard to human health and safety, as such animals provide a fruitful breeding
ground for infectious disease, including but not limited to rabies and
distemper, and may otherwise bite or attack humans and domestic animals. In
addition, food provided for stray animals is often attractive to wild animals
such as raccoons and rodents and may create nuisance conditions such as a rat
harborage or other wild animal infestation.
   (C)   No person shall feed or allow the feeding of any stray cat or dog
within the city.
   (D)   Exceptions. Veterinarians and persons who, acting within the scope of
their employment with any governmental entity non-profit, or humane society has
custody of or manages stray dogs and cats are not subject to the prohibitions
of this section.
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable under this section.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided, violation of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99.
   (C)   Petty misdemeanor. Violations of §§
91.02,
91.07,
91.13 and
91.14 are petty misdemeanors punishable as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Assessable current services
   
92.02   Tree diseases and shade tree pest control
Nuisances
   
92.15   Public nuisance
   
92.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
92.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.19   Nuisance parking and storage
   
92.20   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
92.21   Building maintenance and appearance
   
92.22   Duties of city officers
   
92.23   Abatement
   
92.24   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
92.35   Short title
   
92.36   Jurisdiction
   
92.37   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.38   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
92.39   Filing complaint
   
92.40   Notice of violations
   
92.41   Appeals
   
92.42   Abatement by city
   
92.43   Liability
Open Burning
   
92.59   Rules and laws adopted by reference
   
92.60   Definitions
   
92.61   Prohibited materials
   
92.62   Permit required for open burning
   
92.63   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
92.64   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
92.65   Permit process for open burning
   
92.66   Permit holder responsibility
   
92.67   Revocation of open burning permit
   
92.68   Denial of open burning permit
   
92.69   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
92.70   Reserved
   
92.71   External solid fuel-fired heating devices (outdoor wood burning stoves)
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. Shall mean one or more of the following: snow, ice, or
rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from plots adjacent to
sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of public health or
safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous building included
in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26 as they may amended from time to time;
installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling, street
flushing, light street oiling, or other dust treatment of streets; repair of
sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and
insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property; and the
operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Clerk or other person designated by the
City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt
and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any matter has been
deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The City Clerk or other
designated person shall keep a record showing the cost of removal adjacent to
each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Clerk.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under Chapter
52 of this code, the City Clerk shall keep a record of the total cost of the
installation or repair against the property.
   (E)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or
moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner
and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any such damage. Any
person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages
any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall
be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 TREE DISEASES AND SHADE TREE PEST CONTROL.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. The health of the trees in the city is
threatened by shade tree pests, and the loss or ill health of trees growing
upon public and private property substantially depreciates the value of
property within the city and impairs the safety, good order, general welfare
and convenience of the public. In addition to and in accordance with M.S. §§
89.001, 89.01 and 89.51 through 89.64,as those sections may be amended from
time to time, the provisions of this section are adopted to attempt to control
and prevent the spread of these shade tree pests.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The city shall have control of all street trees, shrubs,
and other plantings now or hereafter in any street, park, public right-of-way
or easement, or other public place within the city limits, and shall have the
power to plant, care for, maintain, remove, and replace such trees, shrubs and
other plantings.
   (C)   Declaration of a shade tree pest.   The Council may declare any
vertebrate or invertebrate animal, plant pathogen, or plant threatening to
cause significant damage to a shade tree or community forest as defined by M.S.
§ 89.001, to be a shade tree pest and prescribe control measures to effectively
eradicate, control or manage the shade tree pest including necessary timelines
for action.
   (D)   Public nuisances declared. A shade tree pest declared by Council
occurring within a declared control zone is a public nuisance.
   (E)   Shade tree pest nuisances are unlawful. It is unlawful for any person
to permit any public nuisance as defined in this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The nuisance may be
abated as provided in this section.
   (F)   Definition of control areas. Upon declaring a shade tree pest, the
Council may define one or more locations within the geographic boundaries of
the city to be within a shade tree pest control area provided such locations
are characterized by biologic, composition, environmental and size factors
favorable to successful application of the control measures prescribed by
Council.
   (G)   Tree Inspector. The Council may appoint a Tree Inspector to coordinate
the activities of the city relating to the control and prevention of damage by
shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector will recommend to the Council the details
of any program for the declaration, control and prevention of shade tree pests.
The Tree Inspector is authorized to enforce or cause to be enforced the tasks
incident to such a program adopted by the Council. The term TREE INSPECTOR
includes any person designated by Council or the Tree Inspector to carry out
activities authorized in this section.
   (H)   Abatement of shade tree pest nuisances.
      (1)   In abating a nuisance declared by ordinance under divisions (B) and
(C), the organism, condition or plant and any tree, wood or material identified
as injurious to the health of shade trees shall be removed or effectively
treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the spread of the
shade tree pest. Such abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance
with the control measures and areas prescribed by ordinance according to
divisions (C) and (K) and (O) .
      (2)   In addition, should the appropriate abatement procedure be removal
and the tree(s) and/or hedge(s) be within the limits of a highway in a rural
area within the city's jurisdiction, M.S. § 160.22, as it may be amended from
time to time, shall be complied with as necessary.
   (I)   Reporting discovery of shade tree pest. Any owner or occupier of land
or any person engaged in tree trimming or removal who becomes aware of the
existence of public nuisance caused by a shade tree pest as defined under
division (C) shall report the same to the city.
   (J)   Registration of tree care firms. Any person, firm or corporation that
provides tree care, tree trimming or removal of trees, limbs, branches, brush,
or shrubs for hire must be registered with the Minnesota Commissioner of
Agriculture under M.S. § 18G.07, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (K)   Inspection and application of control measures.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector is authorized to inspect premises and places
within the city to determine whether shade tree pests exist thereon and to
investigate all reported incidents of shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector is
authorized to take all reasonable measures to prevent the maintenance of public
nuisances and may enforce the provisions relating to abatement in this section.
Diagnosis of shade tree pests may be by the presence of commonly recognized
symptoms or by tests as may be recommended by the Commissioner of the Minnesota
Department of Agriculture or the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources or other reliable means.
      (2)   Except in situations of imminent danger to human life and safety,
the Tree Inspector shall not enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing maintenance of public nuisances without the permission
of the owner, resident or other person in control of the property, unless the
Tree Inspector has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry.
      (3)   No person, firm, or corporation shall interfere with the Tree
Inspector acting under his authority while engaged in activities authorized by
this section.
   (L)   Standard abatement procedure. Except as provided in divisions (M) and
(O), whenever a Tree Inspector determines with reasonable certainty that a
public nuisance as described by this section is being maintained or exists on
premises in the city, the Tree Inspector is authorized to abate a public
nuisance according to the following procedure.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector will notify in writing the owner of record or
occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be terminated
or abated. The notice may be given in person or by mail. Failure of any party
to receive the mail does not invalidate the service of the notice. A copy of
the notice shall be filed with the City Clerk.
      (2)   The notice of abatement shall state that unless the public nuisance
is abated by the owner or occupant, it will be abated by the city at the
expense of the owner or occupant. The notice shall specify the control measures
to be taken to abate the nuisance, and provide a reasonable amount of time to
abate the nuisance. The notice will also state that the owner or occupant has
the right to appeal the determination that a public nuisance exists by
submitting a request in writing to the City Clerk within seven days after
service of the notice, or before the date by which abatement must be completed,
whichever comes first.
      (3)   If no timely appeal is submitted, and the notice of abatement and
its prescribed control measures are not complied with within the time provided
by the notice or any additional time granted, the Tree Inspector or designated
person shall have the authority to obtain permission or an administrative
search warrant, enter the property and carry out abatement in accordance with
the notice of abatement.
   (M)   High cost abatement. If the Tree Inspector determines that the cost of
abating a nuisance will exceed $5,000 based on a reasonable, good faith
estimate, the written notice referred to in division (L) must provide that if
the nuisance is not abated within the reasonable amount of time provided, the
matter will be referred to the City Council for a hearing. The date, time, and
location of the hearing must be provided in the notice.
   (N)   Appeal procedure. If the City Clerk receives a written request for a
hearing on the question of whether a public nuisance in fact exists, the City
Council shall hold a hearing within seven calendar days following receipt by
the Clerk of the written request. At least three days notice shall be given to
the individual who made the written request for the hearing. The Council may
modify the abatement notice or extend the time by which abatement must be
completed. Each owner, agent of the owner, occupant and lienholder of the
subject property or properties in attendance, if any, shall be given the
opportunity to present evidence at the hearing. After holding the hearing, the
City Council may issue an order requiring abatement of the nuisance.
   (O)   Abatement procedure in event of imminent danger.
      (1)   If the Tree Inspector determines that the danger of infestation to
other shade trees is imminent and delay in control measures may put public
health, safety or welfare in immediate danger, the Tree Inspector may provide
for abatement without following (L) or (M). The Tree Inspector must reasonably
attempt to notify the owner or occupant of the affected property of the
intended action and the right to appeal the abatement and any cost recovery at
the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
      (2)   Immediate Abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the
city, without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition
which poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (P)   Recovery of cost of abatement; liability and assessment.
      (1)   The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been abated by the
city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the abatement,
including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been completed and the
cost determined, the City Clerk or other official shall prepare a bill for the
cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due
and payable at the office of the City Clerk.
      (2)   After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as it may
be amended from time to time, the City Clerk may list the total unpaid charges
along with all other charges as well as other charges for current services to
be assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate lot or parcel to which
the charges are attributable. The City Council may then certify the charges
against the property under that statute and other pertinent statutes to the
County Auditor for collection along with current taxes the following year or in
annual installments as the City Council may determine in each case.
   (Q)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which
may be imposed for any crime which is a misdemeanor under this section,
including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, shall be a
sentence of not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a misdemeanor, the costs of prosecution may be
added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this section shall not subject the officer or employee
to the penalty imposed for a violation.
      (4)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this section,
the City Council or any official designated by it, may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   (R)   Declared shade tree pests, control measures and control areas.
      (1)   Oak Wilt. Oak Wilt is declared a shade tree pest and is defined as
any living or dead tree, log, firewood, limb, branch, stump or other portion of
a tree from any species of the genus Quercus existing within the control area
defined that has bark attached and that exceeds three inches in diameter or ten
inches in circumference and contains to any degree any spore or reproductive
structures of the fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum. Control measures prescribed
for abating Oak Wilt Disease are:
         (a)   Installation of a root graft barrier. A root graft barrier can
be ordered installed to prevent the underground spread of Oak Wilt Disease. The
city will mark the location of the root graft barrier. The barrier disrupts
transmission of the fungus within the shared vascular systems of root grafted
trees. The barrier is created by excavating or vibratory plowing a line at
least 42 inches deep between any oak tree infected with Oak Wilt Disease and
each nearby and apparently healthy oak tree within 50 feet of the infected
tree.
         (b)   Removal and disposal of trees on property zoned for residential
and commercial use. On property that is zoned residential and commercial the
city may mark for removal trees that have the potential to produce spores of
the fungus Ceratocvstis fagacearum. After, and in no case before the
installation of the root graft barrier and no later than May 1 of the year
following infection all marked trees must be felled. The stump from such felled
trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if taller,
must be completely debarked. If, however, after the city prescribes the
location for a root graft barrier, the city determines that installation of the
barrier is impossible because of the presence of pavement or obstructions such
as a septic system or utility line, the city may mark for removal all oak trees
whether living or dead, infected or not and located between an infected tree
and the marked barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and disposed
of no later than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from such
felled trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if
taller, must be completely debarked.
         (c)   Removal and disposal of trees on all other property. On all
other property the city may mark for removal all oak trees whether living or
dead, infected or not and located between an infected tree and the marked
barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and disposed of no later
than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from such felled trees
must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if taller, must be
completely debarked.
         (d)   Wood disposal. All wood more than three inches in diameter or
ten inches in circumference from such felled trees must be disposed of by
burying or debarking or chipping or sawing into wane-free lumber or by
splitting into firewood, stacking the firewood and immediately covering the
woodpile with unbroken 4-mil or thicker plastic sheeting that is sealed into
the ground until October 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in
which the tree was felled or by burning before May 1 of the year following
infection. Wood chips from infected trees may be stockpiled or immediately used
in the landscape.
         (e)   The control area for Oak Wilt Disease is defined as all lands
within the boundaries of the city.
      (2)   Emerald Ash Borer. Emerald Ash Borer is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as an insect that attacks and kills ash trees. The adults are
small, iridescent green beetles that live outside of trees during the summer
months. The larvae are grub or worm-like and live underneath the bark of ash
trees.
         (a)   Control measures prescribed for abating Emerald Ash Borer are
those provided in the document, Guidelines to Slow the Growth and Spread of
Emerald Ash Borer from the Minnesota Department of Agriculture.
         (b)   Definition of control areas. The control area for Emerald Ash
Borer is defined as all lands within the boundaries of the city.
      (3)   Dutch Elm Disease. Dutch Elm Disease is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as a disease of elm trees caused by the fungus Ophiostoma ulmi
or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi, and includes any living or dead tree, log, firewood,
limb, branch, stump or other portion of a tree from any species of the genus
Ulmus existing within the control area defined that has bark attached and that
exceeds three inches in diameter or ten inches in circumference and could
contain bark beetles or any spore or reproductive structures of the fungus
Ophiostoma ulmi or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi.
         (a)   Control measures prescribed for abating Dutch Elm Disease are:
            1.   Use of fungicide. Fungicides may be effective in preventing
Dutch elm disease when injected into living trees that do not already show
symptoms of Dutch elm disease. Fungicide injections on private lands are
optional and, if performed, are at the landowner's expense.
            2.   Removal and disposal of trees. Prompt removal of diseased
trees or branches reduces breeding sites for elm bark beetles and eliminates
the source of Dutch elm disease fungus. Trees that wilt before July 15 must be
removed within 20 days of detection [alternative: 30 days]. Trees that wilt
after July 15 must be removed by April 1 of the following year. Diseased trees
not promptly removed will be removed by the city at the landowner's expense.
Wood may be retained for use as firewood or sawlogs if it is de-barked or
covered from April 15 to October 15 with 4 mil plastic. The edges of the cover
must be buried or sealed to the ground.
         (b)   Definition of control areas. The control area for Dutch Elm
Disease is defined as all lands within the boundaries of the city.
NUISANCES
§ 92.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A person must not act, or fail to act in a manner that is or causes a public
nuisance. For purpose of this chapter, a person who does any of the following
is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or §§
92.16,
92.17 or
92.18, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is manufactured or
disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are
permitted to resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating or 3.2 malt
liquor, or where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is kept for sale or other
disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and other property used for
maintaining that place.
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that causes
the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet, or repose of another person in
such a manner as to be plainly audible at the boundary of the real property,
building, structure, or residence from which the noise originates, or at a
distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise. “Plainly audible” is defined
as sound that can be detected by a person using their unaided hearing
faculties.
   (E)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
   (F)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (G)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (H)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (I)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (J)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (K)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (L)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (M)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (N)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (O)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (P)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (Q)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (R)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (S)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one (1) footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel.
   (T)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
   (U)   (1)   Noises prohibited.  
         (a)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably
annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace,
safety, or welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property, or
affects their property’s value in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the
boundary of the real property, building, structure, or residence from which the
noise originates, or at a distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise.
(this general prohibition is not limited by any specific restrictions provided
in this ordinance). “Plainly audible” is defined as sound that can be detected
by a person using their unaided hearing faculties.
         (b)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation
of Minn. Rules. Ch. 7030, as they may be amended from time to time, are hereby
incorporated into this ordinance by reference.
         (c)   The use of any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to
create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise.
         (d)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of
the exhaust of any statutory internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile, or any recreational
device, except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations.
         (e)   Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading, or
unpacking of any vehicle.
         (f)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging
system, machine, or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a
distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and
comfort of any person nearby.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
         (d)   Radios, music devices, paging systems, and the like. The
operation of any device referred to in subdivision (1) (f) between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the
property line of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a
distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a structure or building
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each such statement and take
its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it (a) obstructs views on streets and private property, (b)
creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas, (c) prevents the full use of
residential streets for residential parking, (d) introduces commercial
advertising signs into areas where commercial advertising signs are otherwise
prohibited, (e) decreases adjoining landowners' and occupants' enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood, and (f) otherwise adversely affects property
values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fishing houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-
permanent structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the
front-yard area of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the
front property line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional
guests who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of a nuisance. Any motor vehicles described in this
section shall constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of
the community as such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter
and breeding place for vermin, and present physical danger to the safety and
well-being of children and citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids
which, if released into the environment, can and do cause significant health
risks to the community.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store or abandon any motor vehicle
which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for repair of
parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other vehicles, kept
for scrapping, dismantling, or salvage of any kind, or which is not properly
licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. 168.B,11, Subd. 3, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building
and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which does not
foster complaint from a resident of the city. A privacy fence is permissible.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they (a) are unsightly, (b) decrease adjoining landowners and
occupants' enjoyment of their property and neighborhood, and (c) adversely
affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters, and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents, and other similar projections must
be structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of §§
92.22 and
92.23, the Police Department, or Sheriff or person designated by the City
Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall
have the power to inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions
to prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in
emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and safety, no police
officer or designated person shall enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the owner,
resident or other person in control of the property, unless the officer or
person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
§ 92.23 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the
city, the officer or person designated may notify in writing the owner of
record or occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be
abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the officer or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an administrative search and
seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer or designated person on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the officer or designated person shall determine that a
public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that
delay in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health,
safety or welfare. The officer or designated person shall notify in writing the
occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance, whether public
health, safety, or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in
abatement required to complete the procedure set forth in subdivision (A) of
this section and may order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or
abated. If the nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (E)   Unlawful parties or gatherings. When law enforcement determines that a
gathering is creating such a noise disturbance as prohibited under Section
Four, Subdivision D, the officer may order all persons present, other than the
owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disburse
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by
law enforcement. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped.
   (F)   Judicial remedy. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from
seeking a judicial remedy when no other adequate administrative remedy exists.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city or a person who has caused a public nuisance on a property
not owned by that person shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of
the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official shall
prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount
shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall,
on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the
total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other charges for
current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate lot
or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then
spread the charges against the property under that statute and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see §
92.99
WEEDS
§ 92.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance.”
§ 92.36 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or regulation or
county ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
§ 92.37 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation that shall conform to M.S. § 18.83, Subd. 2, as it may be amended
from time to time.
      MEADOW VEGETATION. Grasses and flowering broad-leaf plants that are
native to, or adapted to, the state of Minnesota, and that are commonly found
in meadow and prairie plant communities, except weeds as defined herein.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes but is not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
         (b)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
         (c)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (d)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers,
or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches;
         (e)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants;
         (f)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
         (g)   Any other weed designated by M.S. § 18.77, Subd. 8, as it may be
amended from time to time, as noxious.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
§ 92.38 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting, or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 12 inches in height.
   (B)   These provisions shall not apply to an area established with meadow
vegetation if:
      (1)   The prior vegetation is eliminated and the meadow vegetation is
planted through transplanting or seed by human or mechanical means; and
      (2)   A sign is posted on the property in a location likely to be seen by
the public, advising that a meadow or prairie is being established. This sign
must be no smaller than ten inches square, no larger than one square foot, and
no higher than three feet tall.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Clerk. If the city makes the complaint, an employee,
officer or Council Member of the city shall file the complaint in all respects
as set out above.
§ 92.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Council shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding the
condition. The City Council, upon concluding that there is a probable belief
that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in
the form of a “Destruction Order” to the property owner or the person occupying
the property as that information is contained within the records of the City
Clerk or any other city agency. The notice shall be served in writing by
certified mail. The notice shall provide that within seven regular business
days after the receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be
removed by the property owner or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Clerk.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Clerk or others is deemed filed on
the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 92.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is
the property owner's responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council Members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
§ 92.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
“Destruction Order” within seven regular business days and has not filed a
notice within 48 hours to the City Clerk of an intent to appeal, the City
Council may employ the services of city employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means. No person
shall enter the property to abate the nuisance, except with the permission of
the owner, resident or other person in control of the property or has obtained
a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 92.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney's
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for expenses and
costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.59 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 88, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, permits,
and all other matters pertaining to open burning are hereby adopted by
reference and are made a part of this ordinance as if set out in full. It is
the intention of the City Council that all future amendments of M.S. Ch. 88,
are hereby adopted by reference as if they had been in existence at the time
this ordinance was adopted.
§ 92.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL, and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a “recreational fire” as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers, and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as “open burning.”
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a “recreational fire site” using
dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans, and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety
hazards will not be created. No more than one recreational fire is allowed on
any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only and which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a
“recreation fire site” as defined herein. Recreational fire sites shall not be
located closer than 25 feet to any structure or combustible material.
   RUNNING FIRE. An attended fire allowed to spread through surface vegetative
matter under controlled conditions for the purpose of vegetative management,
forest management, game habitat management, or agricultural improvement.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as starter
fuels and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   VEGETATIVE MATERIALS. Dry leaves, dry grass clippings, twigs, branches, tree
limbs, untreated or unpainted wood that contains no glues or resins, and other
similar materials. Paper and cardboard are not considered vegetative materials.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, manufactured
fireplace logs, charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. “Wood”
does not include wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil
soaked, or treated with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used
for recreational fires when cut into three foot lengths.
§ 92.61 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of oils,
petroleum fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials, or other
materials which produce excessive or noxious smoke such as but not limited to:
tires, railroad ties, treated, painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar
paper, insulation, composition board, sheet rock, wiring, paint or paint
fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of: hazardous
waste or materials from salvage operations; solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process; materials from a service or commercial
establishment; or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any leaves or
grass clippings.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.62 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire as defined in §
92.60.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.63 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of fire or health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means.
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction.
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical.
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on-site, diseased or infected
nursery stock, diseased bee hives.
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical.
      (6)   Running fires.
   (B)   Fire training permits can only issued by the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources.
   (C)   Permits for the operation of permanent tree and brush burning sites
may only be issued by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.64 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the Fire
Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit fees
shall be in the amount established in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges, authorized by §
30.11, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.65 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   If the established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit
are not met, the application will be denied.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and
permit fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals, if he or
she reasonably believes necessary, may require a preliminary site inspection to
locate the proposed burn site, note special conditions, and set dates and time
of permitted burn and review fire safety considerations.
§ 92.66 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect. Every
open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder or his or her
competent representative. The open burning site shall have available,
appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out in the fire
safety plan.
   (B)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be allowed to
smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the permit holder
to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available for
inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative or DNR forest officer.
   (C)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation of
all general conditions, special conditions, and the burn event safety plan as
established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including but not limited to fire
suppression and administrative fees.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.67 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   An open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of DNR
forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals.
Reasons for revocation include but are not limited to a fire hazard existing or
developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the permit
being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance conditions
developing during the course of the burn, or a fire smoldering with no flame
present.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.68 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 92.69 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   (A)   The designated fire official is authorized to determine when
conditions make open burning potentially hazardous and declare a burning ban
within the city.
   (B)   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or
DNR has officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire
conditions or when the MPCA has declared an Air Quality Alert.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.70 RESERVED.
§ 92.71 EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICES (OUTDOOR WOOD BURNING
STOVES).
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE. A device designed for
external solid fuel combustion so that usable heat is derived for the interior
of a building, and includes solid fuel-fired stoves, solid fuel-fired cooking
stoves, and combination fuel furnaces or boiler which burn solid fuel. Solid
fuel-fired heating devices do not include natural gas-fired fireplace logs or
wood-burning fireplaces or wood stoves in the interior of a dwelling.
      (2)   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, company or other
association.
      (3)   STACKS OR CHIMNEYS. Any vertical structure incorporated into a
building and enclosing a flue or flues that carry off smoke or exhaust from a
solid fuel-fired heating device, especially, the part of such a structure
extending above a roof.
   (B)   Requirements for operation.
      (1)   Any dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities, or any use of an external solid fuel-fired heating
device to burn solid fuels other than those solid fuels for which the external
solid fuel-fired heating device was designed, is declared a public nuisance.
      (2)   No person may install, use or operate an external solid fuel fired
heating device on a lot less than four acres in size.
      (3)   All stacks or chimneys must be so constructed to withstand high
winds or other related elements and in accordance to the specifications of the
manufacturer of the external solid fuel-fired heating device. The stack height
shall be a minimum of 25 feet above ground level, but shall also extend at
least as high as the height of the roofs of residents within 500 feet. All
stacks or chimneys must be of masonry or insulated metal with a minimum six-
inch flue.
      (4)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of 50 feet from all property lines.
      (5)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of ten feet from any principal or accessory structure.
   (C)   Fuels.
      (1)   Only fuels designed for burning in an external solid fuel-fired
heating device may be burned. No garbage may be burned in an external solid
fuel-fired heating device.
      (2)   The only fuel permitted to be burned is untreated fuel. Wood may
not be treated, processed, stained, finished or painted - specifically
prohibited woods include plywood, particle board and similar products. Other
fuels, such as corn, shall not contain any additives, treatments or chemicals.
No petroleum products or processed materials of any kind may be burned.
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter, including maintaining a nuisance
after being notified in writing by first class mail of a violation of any
provision of this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.02   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.03   Materials on street or sidewalk
Right-Of-Way Construction Regulations
   
93.20   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
93.21   Definitions and adoption of rules by reference
   
93.22   Permit requirement
   
93.23   Permit applications
   
93.24   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
93.25   Permit fees
   
93.26   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
93.27   Permit limitations
   
93.28   Timeline for action on permit applications
   
93.29   Installation requirements
   
93.30   Inspection
   
93.31   Work done without a permit
   
93.32   Supplementary notification
   
93.33   Revocation of permits
   
93.34   Mapping data; information required
   
93.35   Location of facilities
   
93.36   Damage to other facilities
   
93.37   Right-of-way vacation
   
93.38   Indemnification and liability
   
93.39   Abandoned facilities; removal of abandoned facilities
   
93.40   Appeal
   
93.41   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
Cross-reference:
   Assessable current services, see §
92.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way. No
owner, occupant, or person having the care of any building or lot of land,
bordering on any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way shall permit it to be
encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans, articles, or substances of any kind, so
as to interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
   (B)   Except for the actions of the city employees and contractors carrying
out their duties, no person shall:
      (1)   Obstruct any street or sidewalk by depositing snow or ice thereon;
      (2)   Dig any holes in any street, sidewalk or right-of-way;
      (3)   Remove any earth, gravel, or rock from any street, sidewalk or
right-of-way;
      (4)   Obstruct any ditch draining any street or drain any noisome
materials into any ditch;
      (5)   Deface, mar, damage, or tamper with any structure, work, material,
equipment, tools, signs, markers, signals, paving, guardrails, drains or any
other highway appurtenance on or along any street, sidewalk or right-of-way.
      (6)   Remove, injure, displace, or destroy right-of-way markers, or
reference or witness monuments, or markers placed to preserve section or
quarter-section corners;
      (7)   Drive over, through, or around any barricade, fence, or obstruction
erected for the purpose of preventing traffic from passing over a portion of a
street or sidewalk closed to public travel or to remove, deface, or damage any
such barricade, fence or obstruction.
Penalty, see §
10.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 93.20 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant to
this chapter to manage rights-of-ways within its jurisdiction.
§ 93.21 DEFINITIONS AND ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   Minn. Rules Ch. 7819, as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted by reference and is incorporated into this code as if set out in full.
The definitions included in M.S. § 237.162, Minn. Rules 7819.0100 subps. 1
through 23, and Minn. Rules 7560.0100 subps. 1 through 12 are hereby adopted by
reference and are incorporated into this chapter as if set out in full.
§ 93.22 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate permit from the city.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of-way described in the permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit.  An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
      (3)   Small Wireless Facility Permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required to place a new wireless support structure (collocate) in the right-of-
way, with the exception that a permit is not required for the installation,
placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement of micro wireless facilities
suspended on cables strung between existing utility poles in compliance with
national safety codes.
      (4)   Small Wireless Special or Conditional Land Use Permit. A special or
conditional land use permit is required to install a new wireless support
structure in a right-of-way where the underlying district or area is zoned for
single-family residential use or is in a historic district established by
federal or state law or city ordinance.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless the person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000 subp. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding division (B) of this
section, the city shall establish and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable
delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration. The
delay penalty shall be established from time to time by the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges, adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city. Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.23 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit shall contain, and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (1)   Each permittee’s name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the city;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees, and placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees, and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities, and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of
incorporation issued by the Secretary of State pursuant to M.S. § 302A.155.
      (6)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the certificate
from the Commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   A Small Wireless Facility Permit applicant may file a consolidated
Small Wireless Permit Application to collocate up to 15 small wireless
facilities provided that all the small wireless facilities in the application:
      (1)    Are located within a two-mile radius;
      (2)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
      (3)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support structures.
   (C)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees as established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time,
estimated restoration costs and other management costs including inspections;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of the applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-
way or any emergency actions taken by the city; or
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges as established by the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time, if
applicable.
§ 93.24 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to
M.S. § 216D.01 - 09 (Excavation Notice System) and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560.
   (C)   Additional Small Wireless Facility Conditions. In addition to
subdivision 2, the erection or installation of a wireless support structure, or
the collocation of a small wireless facility, shall be subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application.
      (2)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet in height without the city’s written authorization, and
further provided that an applicant may replace an existing wireless support
structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a structure of the same height
subject to such conditions or requirements as may be imposed in the applicable
permit.
      (3)   No wireless facility may extend more than 10 feet above its
wireless support structure.
      (4)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the city may impose separation requirements
between such support structures and any existing wireless support structure or
other facilities in and around the right-of-way.
      (5)   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, the city may impose reasonable requirements to accommodate
the particular design, appearance or intended purpose of such structure.
      (6)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the city may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of such structure.
      (7)   The execution of a Small Wireless Facility Collocation Agreement
that incorporates any additional terms and conditions mutually agreed upon by
the city and the applicant. A small wireless facility collocation agreement is
considered public data not on individuals and is accessible to the public under
section 13.03. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit does not supersede,
alter or affect any then- existing agreement between the city and applicant.
   (D)   Payment of Rent.
      (1)   For collocations of small wireless facilities, the city can, either
in its permit or in a standard collocation agreement, require annual rental
payments for the small wireless collocations of up to:
         (a)   $150 per year for rent to collocate on the city structure.
         (b)   $25 per year for maintenance associated with the collocation.
         (c)   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
            1.   $73 per radio node less than or equal to 100 maximum watts;
            2.   $182 per radio node over 100 maximum watts; or
            3.   The actual cost of electricity if the actual cost exceeds the
foregoing.
      (2)   For collocations or placements, other than of small wireless
facilities, the city can charge a mutually agreed upon rent reached between the
city and the applicant.
   (E)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to Horizontal Directional Drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560, and shall require potholing or open
cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating, as determined by
the city.
§ 93.25 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees shall be in an amount established in the Ordinance Establishing
Fees and Charges, adopted pursuant to §
30.11, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee as established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted
pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time, in an
amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction Permit Fee.  The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee as established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges
adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time, and
shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Small Wireless Facility Permit Fee. 
      (1)   The city shall impose a one-time small wireless facility permit fee
at the time of approval of the collocation application in an amount sufficient
to recover:
         (a)   Management costs;
         (b)   Restoration costs or degradation fee, if applicable,
         (c)   Inspection fees, if applicable,
         (d)   City engineering, make-ready, and construction costs associated
with collocation of small wireless facilities.
      (2)   The city will not impose a small wireless facility permit fee for
any of the following activities:
         (a)   Routine maintenance of a small wireless facility;
         (b)   Replacement of a small wireless facility with a new facility
that is substantially similar or smaller in size, weight, height, and wind or
structural loading than the small wireless facility being replaced; or
         (c)   Installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with national safety codes
   (D)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay those fees within 30 days of billing.
   (E)   Non-refundable. Permit fees as established by the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time, that
were paid for a permit that the city has revoked for a breach as stated in §
93.33 are not refundable.
   (F)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (G)   All permit fees shall be established consistent with the provisions of
Minn. Rules part 7819.1000, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under this
subchapter.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. The permittee shall patch its own work. The
city may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to
restore the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, the
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If following
the restoration, the pavement settles due to the permittee's improper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing,
all costs associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it may be required at the time of application for an excavation permit
to post a construction performance bond or a deposit in accordance with the
provisions of Minn. Rules part 7819.3000, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rules part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to
time. The city shall have the authority to prescribe the manner and extent of
the restoration, and may do so in written procedures of general application or
on a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by the permittee or its agents. The
permittee upon notification from the Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other
person designated by the Council, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the Clerk, Utilities
Superintendent or other person designated by the Council. The work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the
Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council, not
including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonal or
unreasonable under this subchapter.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city may do the work. In that event the permittee shall pay to the city, within
30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If the permittee
fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
   (F)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee as
established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to
§
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
However, the right- of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the
degradation fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these
responsibilities.
§ 93.27 PERMIT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Obstruction from Small Wireless Facility Work. The city will not
require an additional small wireless facility permit fee or require a new
collocation agreement for routine maintenance of a small wireless facility, for
replacement of a small wireless facility with a new facility that is
substantially similar or smaller in size, weight, height, and wind or
structural loading than the small wireless facility being replaced; or for
installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement of micro
wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between existing
utility poles in compliance with national safety codes. The city may require
advance notification, however, of these activities if the work will obstruct
the public right-of-way.
   (C)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
§ 93.28 TIMELINE FOR ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Denial in General. The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the
requirements and conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the
denial is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use.
   (B)   Procedure for Denial on Permits other than Small Wireless Facilities
Permits. The denial of a permit must be made in writing and must document the
basis for the denial. The city must notify the applicant or right-of-way user
in writing within three business days of the decision to deny a permit. If an
application is denied, the right-of-way user may address the reasons for denial
identified by the city and resubmit its application. If the application is
resubmitted within 30 days of receipt of the notice of denial, no additional
application fee shall be imposed. The city must approve or deny the resubmitted
application within 30 days after submission.
   (C)   Procedure for Denial on Small Wireless Facilities Permits. The city
shall approve or deny a small wireless facility permit application within 90
days after filing of such application, unless the collocation is on a support
structure that already qualifies as an existing wireless tower or base station
under Section 6409(a), codified at 47 U.S.C. 1455(a), which, in those
instances, the city shall approve or deny the small wireless facility permit
within 60 days. The small wireless facility permit, and any associated building
permit application, shall be deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within the review periods established in this section.
   (D)   Tolling of Deadline on Small Wireless Facility Permit. The deadline
for action on a small wireless facility permit application may be tolled if:
      (1)   The city receives applications from one or more applicants seeking
approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a seven-
day period. In such case, the city may extend the deadline for all such
applications by 30 days and shall inform the affected applicant in writing of
such extension.
      (2)   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or information
and the city provides written notice of incompleteness to the applicant within
30 days of receipt the application. Upon submission of additional documents or
information, the city shall have ten days to notify the applicant in writing of
any still-missing information.
      (3)   The city and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing
to toll the review period.
§ 93.29 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to time and other applicable
local requirements, in so far as they are not inconsistent with M.S. §§ 237.162
and 237.163, as they may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.30 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules part 7819.1300, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
city personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of City.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or
other person designated by the Council may order the immediate cessation of any
work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety, or well-being of
the public.
      (2)   The city may issue an order to the permittee for any work which
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the city that the
violation has been corrected. If proof has not been presented within the
required time, the city may revoke the permit pursuant to §
93.33.
§ 93.31 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each person with facilities in the right-of-way shall immediately
notify the city of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be
an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the owner shall apply for the necessary permits,
pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements
necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for the actions it
took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
city will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this code,
deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
§ 93.32 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the city
of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
§ 93.33 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
the permittee shall include, but shall not be limited, to the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittees control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
93.30.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy that violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach.  Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. The permittee's failure to
so contact the city, or the permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan,
or the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
§ 93.34 MAPPING DATA; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Information required. Each permittee shall provide mapping information
required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules parts 7819.4000 and
7819.4100, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150,
Subp. 2, shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of establishing
the horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the city reasonably requires it.
Permittees or other subcontractors shall submit to the city evidence of the
installed service lateral locations. Compliance with this division (B) and with
applicable Gopher State One Call law and Minn. Rules governing service laterals
installed after December 31, 2005, shall be a condition of any city approval
necessary for:
      (1)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project
including those under M. S. Ch. 429;
      (2)   City approval of performance under development agreements, or other
subdivision or site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462.
The city shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of providing such
information. Failure to provide prompt and accurate information on the service
laterals installed may result in the revocation of the permit issued for the
work or for future permits to the offending permittee or its subcontractors.
§ 93.35 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance required. Placement, location, and relocation of facilities
must comply with applicable laws, and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100,
7819.5000 and 7819.5100, as they may be amended from time to time, to the
extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of space.  To protect the health, safety, and welfare or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the city shall
have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
facilities within the right-of-way. In making those decisions, the Clerk,
Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council shall strive
to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the
right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public
interest, the public's needs for the particular utility service, the condition
of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the
protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and future city plans
for public improvements and development projects which have been determined to
be in the public interest.
§ 93.36 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move facilities to protect it, the Clerk, Utilities
Superintendent or other person designated by the Council shall notify the local
representative as early as is reasonably possible and placed as required. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility owner shall be
responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which
it or its facilities damages. Each facility owner shall be responsible for the
cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused
during the city's response to an emergency occasioned by that owner’s
facilities.
§ 93.37 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way which contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules part 7819.3200, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.38 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rules 7819.1250, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.39 ABANDONED FACILITIES; REMOVAL OF ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove
them from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with other right-of-way
repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement is waived by the
Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council.
§ 93.40 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration; has been denied a
permit; has had a permit revoked; believes that the fees imposed are invalid;
or disputes a determination of the city regarding §
93.34(B) of this chapter, may have the denial, revocation, or fee imposition
reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act
on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision
by the City Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee as imposition will
be in writing and supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness
of the decision.
§ 93.41 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittees or registrants rights are subject to the regulatory and police
powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the public.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   RESERVED
      
115.   RESERVED
      
116.   REGULATING LAWFUL GAMBLING
      
117.   GARAGE AND RUMMAGE SALES
      
118.   REGULATION OF PUBLIC DANCES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
      
119.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain businesses
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN BUSINESSES.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by Title XI of this code or by any other ordinance
of the city or provision of this code without first applying for and obtaining
a license from the City Clerk or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk or other authorized official in
writing upon forms to be furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The applicant's full name, address, and telephone number, and the
full name of each officer, partner or business associate, if applicable;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for the preceding five years;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise, goods or services to be sold;
      (7)   If a motor vehicle is to be used, a full description of the motor
vehicle, including the make, model, year, color, license number, and vehicle
registration (VIN) number of the vehicle.
      (8)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Any change in the information required by division (A) of this section
must be reported to the City Clerk or other authorized official within 14 days
of that change.
   (C)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing on the basis of the original application, unless otherwise provided.
However, if a request for renewal is not submitted to the City Clerk or other
authorized official within 21 days after the date of expiration for the
preceding license, the applicant must fill out an original application.
   (D)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the proper fee
if approval by another officer or department is not required, the City Clerk,
shall deposit the fee in the general fund of the city and issue to the
applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City Clerk.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein specified
and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31 of the year
issued. However, at any time after December 1, licenses may be issued for the
next calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full annual fee will be
required of licensees irrespective of the date of issuance of the license.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the premises the license certificate. Other licensees
shall carry their licenses at all times, and whenever requested by any officer
or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be suspended or revoked by the City Clerk or City
Council at any time for the following reasons:
      (1)   For conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the
time of issuance, would have been valid grounds for its denial;
      (2)   For any misrepresentation of a material fact in the application
discovered after issuance of the license;
      (3)   For any misrepresentation or materially false statement made in the
course of carrying on the trade, business or profession;
      (4)   For violation of any provision of this chapter or other federal,
state or municipal law or ordinance relating to the operation of the business
or enterprise for which the license has been issued; or
      (5)   Upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state or municipal
law or ordinance involving the creation of a nuisance, a breach of the peace,
interference with the rights of property owners, or any other offense
constituting a threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
   (B)   The suspension or revocation shall become effective upon notice served
upon the licensee. The notice shall contain a written summary of the reasons
for the suspension or revocation and a statement concerning the right to appeal
the decision. The notice shall be delivered by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address given on the licensee's application.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license by the City Clerk, or if his
or her license has been suspended or revoked by the City Clerk, the applicant
or licensee shall within ten business days have the right to appeal to the City
Council from the denial, suspension or revocation. Notice of appeal shall be
filed in writing with the City Clerk or other authorized official. Unless a
regular meeting of the City Council at which the appeal can be heard is
scheduled within 21 days after receiving the notice of appeal, the Mayor shall
schedule a special meeting of the City Council for the hearing within the 21-
day period. The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If,
after hearing, a majority of the members of the City Council present at the
meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully
reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the suspension or revocation shall
become final.
CHAPTER 111: COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Bowling; billiards and pool
   
111.02   Circuses, carnivals, shows and other entertainment
   
111.03   Amusement devices
   
111.04   Deposit required
   
111.05   License fee for public entertainment or exhibition
   
111.06   Amusement rides
§ 111.01 BOWLING; BILLIARDS AND POOL.
   Each proprietor of a billiard or pool table or of a bowling alley, or a
combination of both, shall pay an annual license fee in an amount established
in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS, SHOWS AND OTHER ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to M.S. § 437.07, as it may be amended from time to
time, each person, desiring to conduct, stage or give a circus, carnival,
theatrical exhibition, public show, athletic game or other entertainment, for
which there is a charge for admission, shall first obtain a license and pay the
license fee or fees as established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Local school entertainment, charitable organizations, lecture
courses, and lectures on historic, literary or scientific subjects are not
subject to the provisions of this section; provided, that the entertainment is
not for profit.
   (B)   In addition to any other requirements, the applicant for a license
shall give at least one week's notice in writing to the City Clerk or other
authorized official, stating the dates of the performances and the location at
which the performances are to be presented. The City Clerk shall give his or
her consent to the issuance of the license if he or she deems that the location
is suitable for the purpose; that it will properly accommodate the patrons;
that the nature of the performance or exhibition does not pose a threat to the
health, safety or general welfare of the public; and that the use of the
location will not create too great a burden upon the Police Department or the
Fire Department.
   (C)   No circus, carnival, theatrical exhibition, public show, athletic game
or other entertainment shall be given for more than two consecutive days,
except in cases where the City Council by resolution allows a longer period, or
where the exhibition is to be conducted on municipal property and the use
thereof for a longer period shall have been approved by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   The term “coin-operated mechanical amusement device” means any
machine, which upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disc, may be
operated by the public generally for use as a game, entertainment or amusement,
whether or not registering a score. It includes such devices as marble
machines, pinball machines, skill ball, mechanical grab machines, mechanical
rides intended for use by children, such as merry-go-rounds, horses, ferris
wheels, and the like; carnival, fair, and/or festival rides, and all similar
games, operations or transactions under whatever name they may be indicated.
   (B)   A person, firm, corporation or association must not display for public
use any coin-operated mechanical amusement device without obtaining a license
for it and paying the fee established in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
Applications for a license must be made to the City Clerk.
   (C)   The license or licenses obtained must be posted permanently and
conspicuously at the location of the machine in the premises where the machine
is to be operated.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time application for a license is made, where use of municipal
grounds is contemplated, the applicant shall deposit with the City Clerk or
other designated municipal official a cash bond in an amount to be determined
by the City Council, conditioned upon the restoration and cleaning up of the
grounds in a manner satisfactory to the Mayor. In the event the grounds are
restored and cleaned up properly following the exhibition, the deposit shall be
returned; otherwise the same shall be forfeited to the city to the extent of
actual costs to the city for restoration and cleaning up of the grounds.
   (B)   No licensee shall fail to restore or clean up the grounds upon which
the circus, carnival or other entertainment has taken place.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 LICENSE FEE FOR PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT OR EXHIBITION.
   The fee for the license shall be in an amount as established in the
Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
§ 111.06 AMUSEMENT RIDES.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section AMUSEMENT RIDE shall mean a
mechanical device that carries or conveys passengers along, around, or over a
fixed or restricted route or course for the purpose of giving its passengers
amusement, pleasure, thrills, or excitement subject to regulation under M.S. §
184B.01 through § 184B.09, as it may be amended from time to time. AMUSEMENT
RIDE does not include:
       (1)   A coin-operated ride that is manually, mechanically, or
electrically operated and customarily placed in a public location and that does
not normally require the supervision or services of an operator; or
      (2)   Nonmechanized playground equipment, including but not limited to
swings, seesaws, stationary spring-mounted animal features, rider-propelled
merry-go-rounds, climbers, playground slides, trampolines, and physical fitness
devices;
       (3)   Any other amusement device regulated under §
111.03 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   A person, firm, corporation or association must not operate an
amusement ride without first obtaining a license under §
111.02 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time and
providing the City Clerk with a copy of:
      (1)   A certificate stating that the insurance required by M.S. §
184B.02, as it may be amended from time to time, is in effect; and
      (2)   An affidavit attesting that the inspection required by M.S. §
184B.03, as it may be amended from time to time, has been performed. The City
Clerk, upon receipt shall furnish such information to the local law enforcement
office.
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
112.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
112.05   Consumption in public places
Licensing
   
112.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
112.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
112.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
112.23   License fees; pro rata
   
112.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
112.25   Application for license
   
112.26   Description of premises
   
112.27   Applications for renewal
   
112.28   Transfer of license
   
112.29   Investigation
   
112.30   Hearing and issuance
   
112.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
112.32   Conditions of license
   
112.33   Hours and days of sale
   
112.34   Minors on premises
   
112.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
112.36   Suspension and revocation
Municipal Liquor Stores
   
112.50   Application of this subchapter
   
112.51   Existing municipal stores continued
   
112.52   Location
   
112.53   Operation
   
112.54   Proof of financial responsibility
   
112.55   Issuance of other licenses
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor are hereby adopted by
reference and are made a part of this Chapter as if set out in full. It is the
intention of the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are
hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at
the time this Chapter is adopted.
§ 112.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2 percent malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2
percent malt liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a “restaurant” as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “small establishment,” “medium establishment” or
“large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, Subd. 3(d), as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for purposes of
this chapter unless it meets the definitions of “small establishment”, “medium
establishment” or “large establishment.”
§ 112.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non- transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2 percent malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
112.99(B).
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in a
public park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any
public place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
chapter, in a municipal liquor store if one exists in the city, or where the
consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
Penalty, see §
112.99
LICENSING
§ 112.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of licenses which were issued as of the effective date of
this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger number of
licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum held
under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
§ 112.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 112.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
112.20. The Council of a city which has a municipal liquor store is authorized
to issue only those licenses specified in §
112.55.
   (A)   3.2 percent malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to
golf courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments
used exclusively for the sale of 3.2 percent malt liquor with the incidental
sale of tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2 percent malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to
a club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off-sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
112.23 shall not exceed $240 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, resorts as
defined by M.S. § 157.15, Subd. 11, and exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses
may be issued only with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety. The
fee for club licenses established by the Council under §
112.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2
(b), as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound
discretion authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor
off the licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4(b), as it may be amended from time
to time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4(a), as it may be amended from time
to time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating
liquor to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event
being held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
112.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
112.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3(b), as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years; a political committee
registered under state law; or a state university. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
112.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.4011, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time and to
theaters that meet the criteria in M.S. § 340A.404 Subd. 1(b), as it may be
amended from time to time. The fee for an on-sale wine license established by
the Council under the provisions of §
112.23 shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt
liquor with a content over 3.2 percent (strong beer) without an additional
license.
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety may be issued to a nonprofit organization in
conjunction with a social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval may be issued to a recipient of a consumption and display
permit by the Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the
additional fee which may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been
issued a consumption and display permit under the provisions of §
112.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.414, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
   (L)   Culinary class limited on-sale licenses may be issued to a business
establishment not otherwise eligible for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
that, as part of its business, conducts culinary or cooking classes for which
payment is made by each participant or advance reservation required. The
license authorizes the licensee to furnish to each participant in each class,
at no additional cost to the participant, up to a maximum of six ounces of wine
or 12 ounces of intoxicating malt liquor, during and as part of the class, for
consumption on the licensed premises only.
   (M)   Temporary off-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued for the off-sale of wine at an
auction. A license issued under this subdivision authorizes the sale of only
vintage wine of a brand and vintage that is not commonly being offered for sale
by any wholesaler in Minnesota. The license may authorize the off-sale of wine
for not more than three consecutive days provided not more than 600 cases of
wine are sold at any auction. The licenses are subject to the terms, including
license fee, imposed by §
112.23.
   (N)   Brew pub on-sale intoxicating liquor or on-sale 3.2% malt liquor
licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued
to brewers who operate a restaurant in their place of manufacture and who meet
the criteria established at M.S. § 340A.24, as it may be amended from time to
time. Sales under this license at on-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per
year. If a brew pub licensed under this section possesses a license for off-
sale under division (O) below, the brew pub’s total combined retail sales at
on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year, provided that off-
sales may not total more than 750 barrels.
   (O)   Brewer off-sale malt liquor license, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued to a brewer that is a licensee
under division (N) above and otherwise meets the criteria established as M.S. §
340A.24, as it may be amended from time to time. Off-sale of malt liquor shall
be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in the
city. Malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the premises before the
applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor stores. All malt liquor
sold under this license shall be packaged in the manner required by M.S. §
340A.285, as it may be amended from time to time. Sales under this license may
not exceed 750 barrels per year. If a brewer licensed under this section
possesses a license under division (N) above, the brewer’s total retail sales
at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year, provided that
off-sales may not total more than 750 barrels.
   (P)   Brewer off-sale malt liquor licenses may also be issued, with approval
of the Commissioner, to a holder of a brewer’s license under M. S. § 340A.301,
subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) and meeting the criteria established by M. S. § 340A.28
as may be amended from time to time. The amount of malt liquor sold at off-sale
may not exceed 750 barrels annually. Off-sale of malt liquor shall be limited
to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in the jurisdiction
in which the brewer is located, and the malt liquor sold off-sale must be
removed from the premises before the applicable off-sale closing time at
exclusive liquor stores. Packaging of malt liquor for off-sale under this
license must comply with section 340A.285.
   Notwithstanding any law to the contrary and in addition to the authority
provided in M.S. § 340A.28, a Brewer off-sale malt liquor license may be
issued, with approval of the Commissioner, to a holder of a brewer’s license
under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) and meeting the criteria
established by M.S. § 340A.29 as may be amended from time to time, for off-sale
of up to 128 ounces per customer per day of malt liquor produced and packaged
by the holder. Packaging of malt liquor for off-sale under this license must
comply with Minnesota Rules, parts 7515.1080 to 7515.1120.
   (Q)   Brewer temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued,
with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, to brewers who
manufacture fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year for the on-sale
of intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the
municipality sponsored by the brewer.
   (R)   Brewer taproom license, may be issued to the holder of a brewer’s
license under M.S. § 340A.301 Subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) as it may amended from
time to time. A brewer’s taproom license authorizes on-sale of malt liquor
produced by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one
brewery location owned by the brewer. A brewer may have only one taproom
license and may not have an ownership interest in a brewer licensed under M.S.
§ 340A.301 Subd. 6(d) as it may be amended from time to time. A brewer taproom
license may not be issued to a brewer that brews more than 250,000 barrels of
malt liquor annually or a winery that produces more than 250,000 gallons of
wine annually. Within ten days of issuing a brewer taproom license the City
Clerk will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of the licensee’s name,
address, trade name and the effective date and expiration date of the license.
The City Clerk will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of a license
transfer, cancellation, suspension, or revocation during the license period.
   (S)   A cocktail room license may be issued to the holder of a state
microdistillery license or distilled spirits manufacturer license if at least
50 percent of the annual production of the licensee is proceed and distilled on
premises. A cocktail room license authorizes on-sale of distilled liquor
produced by the distiller for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one
distillery location owned by the distiller. The holder of a microdistillery
cocktail room license may also hold a license to operate a restaurant at the
distillery. No more than one cocktail room license may be issued to any
distiller. No single entity may hold both a microdistillery cocktail room and
taproom license and a microdistillery cocktail room and taproom license may not
be co-located.
   (T)   A microdistiller off-sale license may be issued to the holder of a
state microdistillery license if at least 50 percent of the annual production
of the licensee is processed and distilled on premises. A microdistiller off-
sale license authorizes off-sale of up to 750 milliliters per customer per day
of product manufactured on-site provided the product is also available for
distribution to wholesalers.
   (U)   A microdistiller temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license may be
issued to the holder of a state microdistillery license. A microdistillery
temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license authorizes on- sale of
intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the city sponsored
by the microdistillery.
§ 112.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licensees may request a reduction in
their annual license fee by the amount specified in M.S. § 340A.408 if at the
time of initial application or renewal they:
      (1)   Agree to have a private vendor approved by the city train all
employees within 60 days of hire and annually thereafter in laws pertaining to
the sale of alcohol, the rules for identification checks, and the
responsibilities of establishments serving intoxicating liquors;
      (2)   Post a policy requiring identification checks for all persons
appearing to be 30 years old or less;
      (3)   Establish a written cash award and incentive program to award
employees who catch underage drinkers and a written penalty program to punish
employees in the event of a failed compliance check;
      (4)   Failure to abide by the provisions of this division may result in
suspension of the license until the conditions of the fee reduction are met and
may result in suspension and/or revocation of the license pursuant to §
112.36 of this chapter.
§ 112.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 112.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant's age, representations as to the applicant's
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
§ 112.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 112.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
§ 112.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 112.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the school or church to
the closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale” license shall receive
training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training
shall be provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training
shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
   (F)   Failure by an off-sale intoxicating liquor licensee who has received a
fee reduction pursuant to §
112.23(F) of this chapter to abide with the provisions of §
112.23(F).
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in an on-sale
licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally
occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor to remain upon any
table, bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30
minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquor
are sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be
employed as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing
services in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose
building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent
malt liquor are sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any rules
promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2 percent malt liquor, or
violation of §
112.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (C) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
112.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
112.99
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORES
§ 112.50 APPLICATION OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter, consisting of §§
112.50 through
112.55, applies only to a city that has in existence on the effective date of
this chapter a municipal liquor store.
§ 112.51 EXISTING MUNICIPAL STORES CONTINUED.
   If the city has in existence on the effective date of this chapter a
municipal liquor store for the sale of intoxicating liquor, the store is
continued. Except as provided in §
112.55, no intoxicating liquor may be sold at retail elsewhere in the city.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.52 LOCATION.
   The municipal liquor store shall be located at a suitable place in the city
as the Council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes,
assessments, or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
municipal liquor store purposes. The Council shall have the right to establish
additional off- sale and on-sale stores at other locations as it may, from time
to time, by motion, determine.
§ 112.53 OPERATION.
   (A)   Manager. The municipal liquor store shall be in the immediate charge
of a Liquor Store Manager selected by the Council and paid compensation as is
fixed by the Council. The Manager shall not be a person who would be prohibited
by law or any provision of this chapter from being eligible for an intoxicating
liquor license. The Manager shall furnish a surety bond to the city,
conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of the office, in a sum
as specified by the Council. The bond premium may be paid by the city or the
Manager, in the discretion of the Council. The Manager shall operate the
municipal liquor store under the Council's direction and shall perform those
duties in connection with the store as may be established by the Council. The
Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the conduct of the store in
full compliance with this chapter and with the laws relating to the sale of
intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor.
   (B)   Other employees. The Council may also appoint additional employees as
may be required and shall fix their compensation. All employees, including the
Manager, shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council. No person
under the age of 18 shall be employed in the store. The Council may require the
employees to furnish surety bonds conditioned for the faithful discharge of
their duties in a sum as specified by the Council. The premium on the bond may
be paid by the city or the employees, as the Council determines.
   (C)   Municipal liquor store fund. All of the revenues received from the
operation of a municipal liquor store shall be deposited in a municipal liquor
store fund from which all ordinary operating expenses, including compensation
of the Manager and employees, shall be paid. Surpluses accumulating in the fund
may be transferred to the general fund of the city or to any other appropriate
fund of the city by resolution of the Council, and may be expended for any
municipal purpose. The handling of municipal liquor store receipts and
disbursements shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law and charter for
the receipts and disbursements of city funds generally.
   (D)   Financial statement. The Council shall provide within 90 days
following the end of the calendar year for publication a balance sheet using
generally accepted accounting procedures and a statement of operations of the
municipal liquor store for that year. The balance sheet and statement shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 471.6985, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Hours of operation. The hours during which the sale of intoxicating
liquor may be sold shall be as provided in §
112.33. No person, other than the Manager or a store employee, may remain in
the municipal liquor store longer than one-half hour after the time when the
sale of intoxicating liquor must cease.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.54 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility required by
licensees of retail intoxicating liquor establishments under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 112.55 ISSUANCE OF OTHER LICENSES.
   (A)   On-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. The Council may
issue in its sound discretion on-sale licenses to a club under M.S. § 340A.404,
Subd. 1(4), as it may be amended from time to time. If the voters have
authorized their issuance at a special election called for that purpose, the
Council may issue in its sound discretion on-sale liquor licenses to hotels and
restaurants. The number of on-sale licenses issued under this section is
governed by M.S. § 340A.413, as it may be amended from time to time, as limited
by the provisions of this chapter. The issuance of these licenses is governed
by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. State law does
not authorize the issuance of off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating
liquor by cities which operate a municipal liquor store.
   (C)   On- and off-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses. The Council may
issue 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses in its sound discretion as provided in
this chapter.
   (D)   Brewer Taproom License. The Council may issue brewer taproom licenses
in its sound discretion as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   Microdistillery Cocktail Room License. The Council may issue
microdistillery cocktail room licenses in its sound discretion as provided in
this chapter.
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A
as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that
chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time,
is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a
hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person
who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or
revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive
civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to any suspension unless the
licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any three-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any three-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period, $2,000.
   (C)   The term “violation” as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as they
may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be determined
on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding three-year period.
Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which
revocation is imposed.
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
113.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
113.04   License ineligibility
   
113.05   License suspension and revocation
   
113.06   License transferability
   
113.07   Registration
   
113.08   Prohibited activities
   
113.09   Exclusion by placard
   
113.10   Effectiveness
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCATE. A person who goes door-to-door for the
primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social, or other
ideological beliefs. For purposes of this chapter, the term door-to-door
advocate shall fall under the term SOLICITOR and include door-to- door
canvassing and pamphleteering intended for non-commercial purposes.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to- street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
“hawker.”
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership, or similar association.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to- street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the
same as the term “canvasser.”
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
§ 113.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Non-commercial door-to-door advocates. Nothing within this ordinance
shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict non-commercial door-to-door
advocates. Person engaging in non-commercial door-to- door advocacy shall not
be required to register as a solicitor under §
113.07.
   (B)   Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods,
wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property to a retail seller of
the items being sold by the wholesaler.
   (C)   Any person who makes initial contacts with other people for the
purpose of establishing or trying to establish a regular customer delivery
route for the delivery of perishable food and dairy products, such as baked
goods or milk.
   (D)   Any person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to
the customers on his or her established delivery route.
   (E)   Any person making deliveries of newspapers, newsletters, or other
similar publications on an established customer delivery route, when attempting
to establish a regular delivery route, or when publications are delivered to
the community at large.
   (F)   Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as garage sales,
rummage sales, or estate sales.
   (G)   Any person participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea
market.
   (H)   Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer.
   (I)   Any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale.
   Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this chapter,
excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory provision
or requirement provided by another city ordinance.
§ 113.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Ch.
329 as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a license for
the
activity.
   (B)   City license required. Pursuant to M.S. § 437.02, as it may be amended
from time to time, except as otherwise provided for by this chapter, no person
shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient merchant without
first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need not be licensed,
but are still required to register pursuant to §
113.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business operations in the
city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the City
Council and available from the office of the City Clerk. All applications shall
be signed by the applicant. All applications shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Applicant's full legal name.
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers.
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like).
      (4)   Full address of applicant's permanent residence.
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence.
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent.
      (7)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business (if any).
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines.
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license.
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license.
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city, with a maximum 14 consecutive
days.
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business.
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses.
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant.
      (15)   Proof of any required county license.
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant.
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council.
      (19)   The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form
of identification.
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number (VIN) for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business, and a physical description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges, adopted pursuant to §
30.11, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk, within two regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk
determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the
applicant of the required necessary information that is missing. If the
application is complete, the City Clerk must order any investigation, including
background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the
application. Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete
application the City Clerk must issue the license unless there exist grounds
for denying the license under §
113.04, in which case the Clerk must deny the license application. If the City
Clerk denies the license application, the applicant must be notified in writing
of the decision, the reason for denial, and of the applicant's right to appeal
the denial by requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a
public hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal
within 20 days of the date of the request for a public hearing. The decision of
the City Council following the public hearing can be appealed by petitioning
the Minnesota Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted to
peddlers and transient merchants under this chapter shall be valid only during
the time period indicated on the license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business- to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place movement when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that
person's State or Federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech,
press, religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the
person's exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license.
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in a
professional, honest, and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not
be limited to burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business
practices, and any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another
person.
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant.
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant
with the Better Business Bureau, the Office of the Minnesota Attorney General,
or other state attorney general’s office, or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints
filed against the applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 113.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by the applicant on the application form.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense for which granting of a
license could have been denied under §
113.04.
      (4)   Engaging in prohibited activity as provided under §
113.08.
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten regular
business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with
the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall
be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be
scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.07 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements
of this chapter under §
113.03, shall be required to register with the city prior to engaging in those
activities. Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license
application, but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion of the
registration form, the city clerk shall issue to the registrant a certificate
of registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of registration
shall be non-transferrable.
   (B)   Individuals that will be engaging in non-commercial door-to-door
advocacy shall not be required to register.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door
advocate, or other person engaged in other similar activities shall conduct
business in any of the following manner
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person.
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conducting business in a manner a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   (A)   Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no
peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate,
or other person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the
property of another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler,
solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate, or similar
activity when the property is marked with a sign or placard:
      (1)   At least four inches long.
      (2)   At least four inches wide.
      (3)   With print of at least 48 point in size.
      (4)   Stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors or Transient Merchants,”
“Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable
statement.
   (B)   No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove,
deface, or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.10 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The provisions of §§
113.01,
113.02,
113.08 and
113.09 shall automatically apply upon adoption of this chapter. Sections
113.03,
113.04,
113.05,
113.06 and
113.07 shall not be effective until the adoption of a City Council resolution
or ordinance authorizing the licensing of persons covered by those sections.
CHAPTER 114: RESERVED
CHAPTER 115: RESERVED
CHAPTER 116: REGULATING LAWFUL GAMBLING
Section
   
116.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
116.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
116.03   Purpose
   
116.04   Definitions
   
116.05   Applicability
   
116.06   Lawful gambling permitted
   
116.07   Council approval
   
116.08   Application and local approval of premises permits
   
116.09   Local permits
   
116.10   Revocation and suspension of local permit
   
116.11   License and permit display
   
116.12   Notification of material changes to application
   
116.13   Contribution of net profits to fund administered by city
   
116.14   Designated trade area
   
116.15   Records and reporting
   
116.16   Hours of operation
   
116.17   Severability
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 349, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, provisions
relating to sales, and all other matters pertaining to lawful gambling, are
hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this chapter as if set out
in full. It is the intention of the Council that all future amendments of M.S.
Ch. 349 are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in
existence at the time this chapter was adopted.
§ 116.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 349.213, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on gambling within its limits beyond those contained in
M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 116.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the city,
to prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity of operations, and to
provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes.
§ 116.04 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   BOARD. The State of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   LICENSED ORGANIZATION. An organization licensed by the Board.
   LOCAL PERMIT. A permit issued by the city.
   TRADE AREA. This city and each city and township contiguous to this city.
§ 116.05 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be construed to regulate all forms of lawful gambling
within the city except bingo conducted within a nursing home or a senior
citizen housing project or by a senior citizen organization if: the prizes for
a single bingo game do not exceed $10; total prizes awarded at a single bingo
occasion do not exceed $200; only members of the organization or residents and
their guests of the nursing home or housing project are allowed to play in a
bingo game; no compensation is paid for any persons who conduct the bingo; and
a manager is appointed to supervise the bingo.
   (B)   Raffles, if the value of all prizes awarded by the organization in a
calendar year does not exceed $1,500.
§ 116.06 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the city if the Council, by resolution
adopted by a majority of its members authorizes lawful gambling to occur,
provided it is conducted in accordance with M.S. §§ 609.75 to 609.763,
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time; M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.23,
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, and this chapter.
§ 116.07 COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Lawful gambling authorized by M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.23, inclusive, as they
may be amended from time to time, shall not be conducted unless approved by the
Council, subject to the provisions of this chapter and state law.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.08 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit or renewal of a
premises permit from the Board shall file with the City Clerk an executed,
complete duplicate application together with all exhibits and documents
accompanying the application as filed with the Board. The application and
accompanying exhibits and documents shall be filed not later than three days
after they have been filed with the Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a premises
permit, the City Clerk shall transmit the application to the Chief of Police,
or the Sheriff of the county in which this city is located, for review and
recommendation.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or Sheriff shall investigate the matter and make a
review and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (D)   Organizations applying for a state-issued premises permit shall pay
the city a $100 investigation fee. This fee shall be refunded if the
application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced. If approved by
the City Council and the Board, a licensed organization will be responsible for
an annual investigative fee for conducting lawful gambling within the city.
   (E)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (F)   The Council shall receive the Police Chief's or Sheriff's report and
consider the application within 45 days of the date the application was
submitted to the City Clerk.
   (G)   The Council shall, by resolution, approve or disapprove the
application within 60 days of receipt of the application.
   (H)   The Council shall deny an application for issuance or renewal of a
premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years.
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice, and protection of public safety within the last three
years.
      (3)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at premises other than those for
which an on-sale liquor license has been issued.
      (4)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at more than one premises within
the city. The city may limit the number of premises where lawful gambling may
be conducted.
      (5)   An organization would be permitted to conduct lawful gambling
activities at more than one premises in the city.
      (6)   More than one licensed organization would be permitted to conduct
lawful gambling activities at one premises.
      (7)   Failure of the applicant to pay any investigation fee provided by
division (D) of this section within the prescribed time limit.
      (8)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
Otherwise the Council shall pass a resolution approving the application.
§ 116.09 LOCAL PERMITS.
   (A)   No organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded or exempted
from state licensure requirements by M.S. § 349.166, as it may be amended from
time to time, without a valid local permit. This section shall not apply to
lawful gambling exempted from local regulation by §
116.05.
   (B)   Applications for issuance or renewal of a local permit shall be on a
form prescribed by the city. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the organization requesting the permit.
      (2)   Name and address of the officers and person accounting for
receipts, expenses, and profits for the event.
      (3)   Dates of gambling occasion for which permit is requested.
      (4)   Address of premises where event will occur.
      (5)   Copy of rental or leasing arrangement, if any, connected with the
event, including rental to be charged to organization.
      (6)   Estimated value of prizes to be awarded.
   (C)   The fee for a local permit shall be $100. The fee shall be submitted
with the application for a local permit. This fee shall be refunded if the
application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a local
permit, the City Clerk shall transmit the notification to the Chief of Police
or Sheriff for review and recommendation.
   (E)   The Chief of Police or Sheriff shall investigate the matter and make
review and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (F)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (G)   The Council shall receive the Police Chief's or Sheriff's report and
consider the application within 45 days of the date the application was
submitted to the City Clerk.
   (H)   The Council shall deny an application for issuance or renewal of a
premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years.
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to the operation of the establishment, laws relating to alcoholic
beverages, gambling, controlled substances, suppression of vice, and protection
of public safety within the last three years.
      (3)   The organization has not been in existence in the city for at least
three consecutive years prior to the date of application.
      (4)   The organization does not have at least 15 active members at the
time of its initial license application and thereafter at least 13 members
eligible to vote on gambling matters.
      (5)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not take place at a
premises the organization owns or rents.
      (6)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not be limited to a
premises for which an on-sale liquor license has been issued.
      (7)   An organization will have a permit to conduct exempted or excluded
lawful gambling activities on more than one premises in the city.
      (8)   More than one licensed, qualified organization will be conducting
exempted or excluded lawful gambling activities at any one premises.
      (9)   Failure of the applicant to pay permit fee provided by division (C)
of this section within the prescribed time limit.
      (10)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
Otherwise the Council shall approve the application.
   (I)   Local permits shall be valid for one year after the date of issuance
unless suspended or revoked.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.10 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LOCAL PERMIT.
   (A)   A local permit may be revoked or temporarily suspended for a violation
by the gambling organization of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to gambling.
   (B)   A license shall not be revoked or suspended until written notice and
an opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the permitted person. The
notice shall be personally served or sent by registered mail. If the person
refuses to accept notice, notice of the violation shall be served by posting it
on the premises. Notice shall state the provision reasonably believed to be
violated and shall state that the permitted person may demand a hearing on the
matter, in which case the permit will not be suspended until after the hearing
is held. If the permitted person requests a hearing, the Council shall hold a
hearing on the matter no more than seven business days after the date on which
the request is made. If, as a result of the hearing, the Council finds that an
ordinance violation exists, then the Council may suspend or revoke the permit.
§ 116.11 LICENSE AND PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All permits issued under state law or this chapter shall be prominently
displayed during the permit year at the premises where gambling is conducted.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.12 NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state-issued premises permit or a local permit
shall notify the city in writing whenever any material change in the
information submitted in the application occurs within ten days of the change.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.13 CONTRIBUTION OF NET PROFITS TO FUND ADMINISTERED BY CITY.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling within the city
pursuant to M.S. § 349.16, as it may be amended from time to time, shall
contribute 10% of its net profits derived from lawful gambling in the city to a
fund administered and regulated by the city without cost to the fund. The city
shall disburse the funds for lawful purposes as defined by M.S. § 349.12, Subd.
25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Payment under this section shall be made on the last day of each
month.
   (C)   The city's use of these funds shall be determined at the time of
adoption of the city's annual budget or when the budget is amended.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.14 DESIGNATED TRADE AREA.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall
expend 100% of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes conducted
within the city's trade area.
   (B)   This section applies only to lawful purpose expenditures of gross
profits derived from gambling conducted at a premises within the city's
jurisdiction.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.15 RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the City
Clerk one copy of all records and reports required to be filed with the Board,
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time, and rules
adopted pursuant thereto, as they may be amended from time to time. The records
and reports shall be filed on or before the day they are required to be filed
with the Board.
   (B)   Organizations licensed by the Board shall file a report with the city
proving compliance with the trade area spending requirements imposed by §
116.14. Such report shall be made on a form prescribed by the city and shall be
submitted annually and in advance of application for renewal.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.16 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
any day of the week.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.17 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is found to be invalid for any reason by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining provisions shall
not be affected.
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates:
   (A)   Any provision of this chapter;
   (B)   M.S. §§ 609.75 to 609.763, inclusive, as they may be amended from time
to time; or
   (C)   M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.21, as they may be amended from time to time, or
any rules promulgated under those sections, as they may be amended from time to
time;
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99
CHAPTER 117: GARAGE OR RUMMAGE SALES
Section
   
117.01   Definition
   
117.02   Restrictions and prohibitions
   
117.03   Exceptions
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITION.
   The following term, as used in this chapter, shall have the meaning stated:
   GARAGE OR RUMMAGE SALE. Any display and sale of personal property, conducted
on premises located in any Residentially-Zoned District by the occupant and
which does not require a business license or make taxable sales, leases or
services.
§ 117.02 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   None of the items offered for sale shall have been obtained for resale
or received on consignment for sale.
   (B)   Any garage or rummage sale (community or neighborhood sale) shall be
conducted solely within the boundaries of the property owned or occupied by the
occupant who is conducting the sale.
   (C)   There shall be no more than four garage or rummage sales conducted at
any one premises during any period of 12 calendar months.
   (D)   No garage or rummage sale shall be conducted during any part of more
than three consecutive days.
   (E)   No garage or rummage sale may be conducted before 7:00 a.m. or after
8:00 p.m.
   (F)   Any related signage shall be limited to the premises and to other
residential property, provided permission from the property owner is obtained,
and shall be removed at the termination of the sale. Signs shall be limited to
four square feet.
   (G)   There shall be no more than two consecutive sales with 30-day
separation between all others.
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any sale under court order, nor to any bona
fide auction sale, nor to a sale of farm or garden products by the person
producing same.
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to conduct a garage or rummage sale in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. A violation of this chapter
is a misdemeanor, to be punished as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 118: REGULATION OF PUBLIC DANCES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
Public Dances
   
118.01   Regulation of public dances
   
118.02   Definitions
   
118.03   Permit required
   
118.04   Application for permit
   
118.05   Insurance
   
118.06   Location
   
118.07   Permit to be posted
   
118.08   Liquor license required
   
118.09   Licensed police officer presence
   
118.10   Hours
   
118.11   Minors prohibited
   
118.12   Certain behavior prohibited
   
118.13   Lighting
   
118.14   Noise
Special Events
   
118.20   Purpose and findings
   
118.21   Definitions
   
118.22   Permit required
   
118.23   Application for permit
   
118.24   Issuance of permit, conditions and posting
   
118.25   Exceptions to the permit
 
   
118.99   Penalty
PUBLIC DANCES
§ 118.01 REGULATION OF PUBLIC DANCES.
   All public dances held in this city shall be conducted in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms stated below shall have the following meanings:
   PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance where the general public may participate, whether or
not a charge for admission for dancing is made.
   PUBLIC DANCING PLACE. Any room or space or other area, whether indoors or
outside, which is open to the general public for the purpose of participating
in public dancing.
§ 118.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct a public dance in this city unless a permit has been
obtained from the City Clerk prior to the holding of the dance. The fees for a
permit shall be as established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges,
adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time. In
addition to this fee, the applicant shall pay the cost to the city of providing
a licensed peace officer or officers to be present at the dance. The City
Council shall establish criteria for determining the number of licensed peace
officers required to be present at any dance. No permit shall be issued until
the fee and the cost for providing the peace officer or officers has been paid.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person desiring a permit to hold a public dance in this city shall
submit an application for a permit on the form provided by the City Clerk,
submitted to the City Clerk at least ten days before the date of the proposed
dance. The application shall set forth the name and address of the applicant,
who shall be the person responsible for conducting the public dance, and any
business, committee or organization sponsoring the dance, the place where the
dance is to be held, the date of the dance and the time of its beginning and
end. Proof of all insurance required by this chapter shall be submitted with
the application and no permit shall be issued until proof of insurance has been
received. A request for any use of a city building or other city property shall
be included with the permit application, and no permit shall be issued until
the fees for the use of the city building or other city property have also been
paid.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.05 INSURANCE.
   Insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 per event is required. All insurance
policies required for the event, including any insurance required by law for
the sale of alcoholic beverages, shall list the city as a named insured and
provide a provision to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city and any of
its employees from any claims arising from the event.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.06 LOCATION.
   The applicant shall make sure that adequate parking is available for the
persons wishing to attend the dance and make sure that the location is safe and
accessible. This information shall also be provided to the City Clerk before a
permit shall be issued.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.07 PERMIT TO BE POSTED.
   When a permit is issued, the holder of the permit shall post the permit in a
prominent location on the premises on which the dance is to be held during the
time the dance is occurring. The applicant shall be present at all times while
the dance is occurring.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.08 LIQUOR LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall give, hold, conduct or permit any public dance where liquor
will be served, as defined in M.S. Ch. 340A, without obtaining a license from
the city.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.09 LICENSED PEACE OFFICER PRESENCE.
   No public dance shall occur without at least one licensed peace officer or
more, if more are required under the criteria established by the City Council,
who shall be present at the public dancing place during the duration of the
dance and after the dance, until all of the participants have left the public
dancing place.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.10 HOURS.
   No public dance shall occur between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.11 MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed to be present by the permit
holder or any peace officer at a public dance where alcohol is sold or
consumed, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.12 CERTAIN BEHAVIOR PROHIBITED.
   No person present at any public dance shall engage in any disorderly
conduct, as defined by M.S. § 609.72, as it may be amended from time to time,
and any disorderly person may be immediately removed from the dance by the
peace officer present at the public dancing place. Should a substantial number
of persons at the public dance engage in disorderly conduct, the peace officer
present may terminate the dance and remove all persons from the public dancing
place.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.13 LIGHTING.
   In order to protect the safety of persons attending a public dance, public
dancing places shall be adequately illuminated and dancing therein while lights
are extinguished, dimmed or turned low so as to give inadequate or imperfect
illumination is hereby prohibited. All exit areas shall be illuminated at all
times during the public dance with light having intensity of not less than one
footcandle at floor level. Illumination of less than 0.5 foot-candles in any
area where dancing is occurring, permitted or encouraged is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.14 NOISE.
   All public dances shall be subject to the provisions of this code regulating
noise.
Penalty, see §
118.99
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 118.20 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of this city by regulating the time, place and manner of conduct
of special events and by establishing permit requirements for conducting
special events as such are herein defined. The City Council finds that special
events often exceed the city's capacity to provide usual city services. These
city services include, but are not limited to sanitary, fire, police and
utility services. The City Council also finds these regulations necessary to
ensure that such events are conducted with sufficient consideration given to
public safety issues, including, among other things, the impact of these events
on parking and vehicular traffic within the city.
§ 118.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. A natural person, association, organization, club, group formed for
a common purpose, partnership of any kind, limited liability company,
corporation or any other legal entity.
   SPECIAL EVENTS. An outdoor gathering of at least 25 individuals, whether on
public or private property, assembled with a common purpose for a period of one
hour or longer. SPECIAL EVENTS include, but are not limited to concerts, fairs,
carnivals, circuses, parades, flea markets, marathons, walkathons, festivals,
races, bicycle events, celebrations or any other gathering or events of similar
nature. SPECIAL EVENTS do not include noncommercial events held on private
property, such as graduation parties or social parties.
§ 118.22 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall hold, conduct or participate in a special event within the
city, unless a permit has been issued for such event upon timely written
application made to the city.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.23 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Written application for special event permits must be made at least 30 days
in advance of the event's proposed date in a form prescribed by the City
Council. This application period shall not begin to run until a complete
application has been filed with the city. Application forms shall be made
available in the office of the City Administrator. A fee, in the amount
specified in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges, shall be paid to the
city along with the completed application form. In addition to the fee, the
applicant shall pay all additional costs incurred by the city as a direct
result of the special event. Failure to provide a complete application or to
pay the fee, as herein required, is sufficient reason to deny the special event
permit.
§ 118.24 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT, CONDITIONS AND POSTING.
   (A)   Special event permits will be issued upon City Council approval. The
Council may attach reasonable conditions to the permit as are deemed necessary
to protect the health, safety and welfare. Such conditions may pertain to any
of the following:
      (1)   Location and hours during which the event may be held;
      (2)   Sanitation/availability of potable water;
      (3)   Security/crowd management;
      (4)   Parking and traffic issues;
      (5)   Emergency and medical services;
      (6)   Clean-up of premises and surrounding area/trash disposal;
      (7)   Insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 per event. All required
policies shall name the city as an additional insured. Applicants shall agree
to defend and indemnify the city from any and all claims;
      (8)   Lighting;
      (9)   Fire service/safety;
      (10)   Temporary construction, barricades/fencing;
      (11)   Removal of advertising/promotional materials;
      (12)   Noise levels;
      (13)   Alcohol consumption;
      (14)   Any other conditions which the Council deems necessary.
   (B)   Upon Council approval, the City Clerk shall issue a permit to the
person(s) named in the permit application. The permit shall clearly state the
conditions, if any, imposed by the Council. Copies of the permit shall be
posted in three prominent locations during the special event.
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.25 EXCEPTIONS TO THE PERMIT.
   The permit requirement contained in this chapter does not apply to the
following:
   (A)   Special events sponsored and managed by the city;
   (B)   Funerals and funeral processions;
   (C)   The grounds of any school, playground, place of worship, hotel
conference center, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium or similar
permanent place of assembly when used for regularly established assembly
purposes.
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any permit holder violating any of the provisions of this chapter
relating to public dances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as
provided in §
10.99, and their public dance permit is suspended immediately at the time of
any arrest or citation for violating this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any condition of a special event permit
or any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as
prescribed by §
10.99.
      (2)   Enforcement of this division may, at the Council's discretion, take
any of the following forms:
         (a)   Citation/criminal prosecution;
         (b)   Injunctions, declaratory judgements or other civil remedies;
         (c)   Permit revocation;
         (d)   Disbursement of persons gathered.
CHAPTER 119: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
119.01   Purpose
   
119.02   Findings
   
119.03   Definitions
   
119.04   Exceptions
   
119.05   License required
   
119.06   Person ineligible
   
119.07   Places ineligible
   
119.08   License application
   
119.09   Fees
   
119.10   Granting of licenses
   
119.11   Conditions of license
   
119.12   Restrictions and regulations
   
119.13   Suspensions and revocation of license
 
   
119.99   Penalty
   
Appendix I:   Resolution adopting the findings of the Report of the Attorney
General's Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses
   
Appendix II:   Report of the Attorney General's Working Group on the Regulation
of Sexually Oriented Businesses
Cross-reference:
   Location of sexually oriented businesses, see §§
150.05,
153.05
§ 119.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prescribe licensing requirements for
sexually oriented businesses to protect the public health, safety, and welfare
and to prevent criminal activity and the spread of sexually- transmitted
diseases. This chapter is intended to supersede the provisions of M.S. §
617.242, as it may be amended from time to time, and render M.S. § 617.242
inapplicable as authorized by the statute.
§ 119.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council makes the following findings regarding the effect sexually
oriented businesses have on the character of the city's neighborhoods. In
making these findings, the City Council accepts the recommendations and
conclusions of the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group on the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses dated June 6, 1989, a copy of which
is referenced and included in Appendix II of this chapter. This chapter shall
have no force and effect until the City Council accepts these recommendations
by resolution of a majority of its members, using the model resolution
contained in Appendix I of this chapter.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses can contribute to an increase in criminal
activity in the area in which such businesses are located, increasing the
demands on city crime-prevention programs and law enforcement services.
   (B)   Sexually oriented businesses can be used as fronts for prostitution
and other criminal activity. The experience of other cities indicates that
proper management and operation of such businesses can minimize this risk.
   (C)   Sexually oriented businesses can increase the risk of exposure to
communicable diseases, including Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS),
for which there is currently no cure. Experiences of other cities indicate that
such businesses can facilitate the spread of communicable diseases by virtue of
the design and use of the premises, endangering not only the patrons of such
establishments but also the general public.
   (D)   Sexually oriented businesses can cause or contribute to public health
problems by the presence of live adult entertainment in conjunction with food
and/or drink on the same premises.
   (E)   A licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed in this chapter can
facilitate the enforcement of the city's “anti-blight” regulations, as set
forth in
Chapter 153 of this code, and can aid in monitoring sexually oriented
businesses for adverse secondary effects on the community.
   (F)   The risk of criminal activity and/or public health problems can be
minimized through a licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed in this
chapter.
§ 119.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms have the following meanings when used in this
chapter.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   A business that meets any of the following criteria, measured on a
daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly basis:
         (a)   Has more than 25% of its inventory, stock-in-trade, or publicly
displayed merchandise in sexually oriented materials;
         (b)   Devotes more than 25% of its floor area (not including
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business
not open to the public) to sexually oriented materials; or
         (c)   Derives more than 25% of its gross revenues from sexually
oriented materials; or
      (2)   A business that engages for any length of time in a sexually
oriented use as defined in this section or any other use that has an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATERIALS. Visual, printed, or aural materials, and other
objects or devices, that:
      (1)   Contain, depict, simulate or describe specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Are marketed for use in conjunction with, or are primarily used
only with or during specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Are designed for sexual stimulation.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE. Any of the following activities and businesses, even
if the activity exists for only a short-time:
      (1)   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business that
provides the service of applying paint, ink, or other substance, whether
transparent or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when the person is
nude.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment or business used for the barter,
rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audiotape, videotape, movies, or motion picture film if it meets the
criteria established in the definition of “sexually oriented business,” as
defined in this section.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A business or establishment that provides dancing or
other live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on:
         (a)   The depiction of nudity, specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   The presentation, display, or depiction of matter that seeks to
evoke, arouse, or excite sexual or erotic feelings or desire.
      (4)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A business or establishment that
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (5)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or establishment that
provides the services of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (6)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club that is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (7)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel that presents material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (8)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR/HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
that provides massage services distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (9)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business or establishment with
a capacity of less than 50 persons that, as a prevailing practice, presents on-
premises viewing of movies, motion pictures, or other material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (10)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. A business or establishment that provides
live models who, with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual
gratification, engage in specified sexual activities or display specified
anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted.
      (11)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are used to show images
to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (12)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A motion picture theater with a
capacity of 50 or more persons that, as a prevailing practice, presents
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
      (13)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. An establishment or business that has a
variety of items for sale if it meets the criteria established in division (1)
of the definition of “sexually oriented business” defined in this section.
      (14)   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna that excludes minors by reason of age, and
that provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (15)   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the building or
portion of a building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service
provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
area, buttocks, anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a state of sexual arousal, whether or not
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Actual or simulated: sexual intercourse; oral copulation; anal
intercourse; oral-anal copulation; bestiality; direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals; flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship; the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship; anilingus; coprophagy; coprophilia; cunnilingus; fellatio;
necrophilia; pedophilia; piquerism or zooerastia;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus
or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, or female breasts;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, who
are clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and engaged in the
flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other physical restraint of any
person;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation or vaginal or anal
irrigation.
§ 119.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not regulate the following:
   (A)   Material with significant literary content or social commentary;
   (B)   A business where sexually oriented materials are sold, bartered,
distributed, leased, furnished, or otherwise provided for off-site use or
entertainment, if the sexually oriented material on each item is blocked from
view by an opaque cover as required under M.S. § 617.293, as it may be amended
from time to time, and each item is in an area accessible only by an employee
of the business;
   (C)   A person or organization exempted under M.S. § 617.295;
   (D)   Activity regulated under M.S. § 617.202;
   (E)   Displaying works of art showing specified anatomical areas, so long as
no sexually oriented materials are for sale, and the business does not have a
liquor license; and
   (F)   Movies rated G, PG, PG-13, NC-17 or R.
§ 119.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person may own or operate a sexually oriented business within the city
unless the person is currently licensed under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.06 PERSONS INELIGIBLE.
   No license may be issued to a person who:
   (A)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien;
   (B)   Is a minor at the time the application is filed;
   (C)   Has been convicted of a crime directly related to the licensed
occupation and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation
and present fitness to perform the duties of the owner, operator or manager of
a sexually oriented business under M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, or a person not of good moral character and repute;
   (D)   Holds a liquor license under Minnesota Basic Code of Ordinances
Chapter 112.
   (E)   In the judgment of the licensing authority, is not the real party in
interest or beneficial owner of the business operated under the license;
   (F)   Has had a license for a sexually oriented business or similar business
revoked anywhere within five years of the license application; or
Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.07 PLACES INELIGIBLE.
   No license may be issued for:
   (A)   A place or a business ineligible for a license under city ordinance or
state law;
   (B)   Operation in a zoning district where the business is not allowed
pursuant to
Chapter 153 of this code;
   (C)   A place or business that is currently licensed as a tattoo
establishment, pawnshop, massage business or establishment that sells alcoholic
beverages; or
   (D)   Operation on a premises on which taxes, assessments or other financial
claims of the city or other government agency are delinquent and unpaid, unless
the non-payment is not under the control of the applicant.
Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.08 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a sexually oriented business license under this
chapter must be made on a form supplied by the city and must provide the
following information:
      (1)   The business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate;
      (2)   The location of the business premises;
      (3)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed, including a
map of the area for which the license is sought, showing dimensions, locations
of buildings, street access and parking facilities;
      (4)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid,
the years and amounts that are unpaid;
      (5)   Whether the applicant is the owner and operator of the business and
if not, who is;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other
than his or her true name, and if so, what was the name or names, and
information concerning dates and places where used;
      (7)   Whether the applicant is married or single. If married, the true
name, place and date of birth and street address of applicant's spouse;
      (8)   Street address at which the applicant and spouse have lived during
the preceding ten years;
      (9)   Kind, name and location of every business or occupation the
applicant and spouse have been engaged in during the preceding ten years;
      (10)   Names and addresses of the applicant's and spouse's employers and
partners, if any, for the preceding ten years;
      (11)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been convicted of a
violation of a state law or local ordinance, other than a non-alcohol related
traffic offense. If so, the applicant must furnish information as to the time,
place and offense for which convictions were had;
      (12)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been engaged as an
employee or in operating a sexually oriented business, massage business, or
other business of a similar nature. If so, the applicant must furnish
information as to the time, place and length of time;
      (13)   Whether the applicant has ever been in military service. If so,
the applicant must, upon request, exhibit all discharges;
      (14)   If the applicant is a partnership, the name and address of all
partners and all information concerning each partner as is required of a single
applicant as above. A managing partner or partners must be designated. The
interest of each partner or partners in the business must be submitted with the
application and, if the partnership is required to file a certificate as to
trade name under the provisions of M.S. Ch. 333, as it may be amended from time
to time, a copy of the certificate must be attached to the application;
      (15)   If the applicant is a corporation or other organization, the
applicant must submit the following:
         (a)   Name, and if incorporated, the state of incorporation;
         (b)   Names and addresses of all officers;
         (c)   The name of the manager or proprietor or other agent in charge
of, or to be in charge of the premises to be licensed, giving all information
about said person as is required in the case of a single applicant; and
         (d)   A list of all persons who, single or together with their spouse,
own or control an interest in said corporation or association in excess of 5%
or who are officers of said corporation or association, together with their
addresses and all information as is required for a single applicant.
      (16)   The amount of the investment that the applicant has in the
business, land, building, premises, fixtures, furniture or stock-in-trade, and
proof of the source of the money;
      (17)   A list of responsible persons, including the names of owners,
managers and assistant managers, who may be notified or contacted by state or
city employees in case of emergency. These persons must be residents of the
state;
      (18)   Whether the applicant holds a current license for a sexually
oriented business or similar business from another governmental unit;
      (19)   Whether the applicant has ever been denied a license for a
sexually oriented business or similar business from another governmental unit;
and
      (20)   Other information that the city deems appropriate.
   (B)   No person may make a false statement or material omission in a license
application or investigation. A false statement or material omission is grounds
for denial, suspension or revocation of a license.
   (C)   Each licensee has the continuing duty to properly notify the Director
of Community Development of a change in the information or facts required to be
furnished on the application for a license. This duty continues throughout the
period of the license. Failure to comply with this section will constitute
cause for revocation or suspension of the license.
   (D)   The application for the renewal of an existing license must be made at
least 90 days prior to the date of the expiration of the license and must be
made on the form which the city provides.
Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.09 FEES.
   (A)   An applicant for a license must pay to the city the investigation fee
specified in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges, adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time. This
fee will be for the purpose of conducting a preliminary background and
financial investigation of the applicant. If the city believes that the public
interest so warrants, it may require a similar investigation at the time of
renewal of a license. If an investigation is ordered at the time of license
renewal, the applicant must pay the fee specified above, except that the fee
will be the smaller of the stated dollar amount or the actual cost of the
investigation. There will be no refund of the investigation fee after the
investigation has begun.
   (B)   The annual fees for a license are set forth in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges, adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Each license expires on December 31 of the year in which it is issued.
Fees for licenses issued during the license year will be prorated according to
the number of months remaining in the year. For this purpose an unexpired
fraction of a month will be counted as a whole month having elapsed.
   (D)   No refund of a fee will be made except as authorized by ordinance.
§ 119.10 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   No license may be issued until the Police Department, or the county
Sheriff, if the city has no Police Department, has conducted an investigation
of the representations set forth in the application, the applicant's moral
character, and the applicant's financial status. All applicants must cooperate
with this investigation.
   (B)   No license, except for a renewed license, may be issued for a sexually
oriented business until the Council has held a public hearing. Notice of the
hearing must be made in the same manner as that specified in Chapter 151 of
this code, for a zoning ordinance amendment affecting district boundaries. The
Council must grant the license unless the applicant or the location does not
meet the requirements of the city code, the application was incomplete, or the
application contained false information or a material omission. If the
application is denied, the city must notify the applicant with the reason(s)
stated for denial. Notification must be sent certified, United States mail,
return receipt requested, to the address provided on the license application.
If the Council fails to act on the application within 45 days after receipt of
a complete application, the application will be deemed approved. An applicant
wishing to appeal the action of the City Council may seek a writ of certiorari
before the Minnesota Court of Appeals.
   (C)   (1)   The City Council may issue a license before an investigation,
notice and public hearing for an applicant who:
         (a)   Had a license within the previous five years for the
establishment that is specified in the application and that is continuing to
operate under a license;
         (b)   Wishes to resume operation of the business without sufficient
time, through no fault of his or her own, to meet the normal procedural
requirements;
         (c)   Had no criminal license convictions, or license suspensions or
revocations during the prior licensed period; and
         (d)   Otherwise qualifies and meets the requirements for a license.
      (2)   In this situation, the City Council may immediately issue an
interim license to the applicant for a period of no longer than 90 days. The
applicant must then proceed through the specified requirements for an
investigation, notice, and public hearing. At the public hearing the Council
will decide whether the license should continue in effect or be revoked. The
applicant has no greater right to continuation of the license than he or she
would have had to issuance of a new license following the normal procedure
without the interim license.
   (D)   A license will be issued only to the applicant and for the premises
described in the application. No license may be transferred to another person
or place without application in the same manner as an application for a new
license. Transfer of 25% or more of the stock of a corporation or of a
controlling interest of it, whichever is less, will be deemed a transfer of the
license. If the licensee is a corporation that is wholly owned by another
corporation, the same provisions about the transfer of a stock or a controlling
interest will apply to that parent corporation, any second parent corporation
that wholly owns the parent corporation, and all other similarly situated
parent corporations up through the chain of ownership. Transfer of this amount
of stock without prior Council approval is a ground for revocation or
suspension of the license. In addition, each day the licensee operates under
the license after a transfer has taken place without obtaining Council approval
will be a separate violation of this chapter.
   (E)   In the case of the death of a licensee, the personal representative of
a licensee may continue operation of the business for not more than 90 days
after the licensee's death.
§ 119.11 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license is subject to the conditions in this section, all other
provisions of this chapter, and of other applicable regulations, ordinances or
state laws.
   (B)   A licensee is responsible for the conduct of his or her place of
business and the conditions of order in it. The act of an employee of the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
is liable for all penalties provided by this chapter equally with the employee,
except criminal penalties.
   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises for
which it is used.
Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.12 RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   A sexually oriented business is subject to the following restrictions and
regulations:
   (A)   No owner, manager or employee may allow sexually oriented materials or
entertainment to be visible or perceivable in any manner, including aurally, at
any time from outside of the business.
   (B)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a person under the age of 18
to enter the business.
   (C)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a person under the age of 18
to have access to sexually oriented materials, whether by sight, purchase,
touch or other means.
   (D)   No owner or manager may employ a person under the age of 18 on the
licensed premises.
   (E)   No owner, manager, or employee may have been convicted of a sex crime,
as identified in M.S. §§ 609.293 to 609.352, 609.746 to 609.749, 609.79 or
518B.01, as they may be amended from time to time, or related statute dealing
with sexual assault, sexual conduct, harassment, obscenity, or domestic abuse
within the past five years.
   (F)   No business may exceed 10,000 square feet in gross floor area.
   (G)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a patron, employee, or other
person on the premises to physically contact, in public view, a specified
anatomical area of himself or herself or of another person, except that a live
performer may touch himself or herself.
   (H)   A live performer must remain at all times a minimum distance of ten
feet from members of the audience, and must perform on a platform intended for
that purpose, that must be raised at least two feet from the level of the floor
on which the audience is located. No performer may solicit or accept money, a
tip, or other item from a member of the audience.
   (I)   No business may have booths, stalls, partitioned portions of a room,
or individual rooms, except as follows:
      (1)   Restrooms are allowed as long as they are no larger than reasonably
necessary to serve the purposes of a restroom, no other activities are provided
or allowed in the rooms, and there are no chairs, benches, or reclining
surfaces in the rooms; and
      (2)   Storage rooms and private offices are allowed, if the storage rooms
and offices are used solely for running the business and no person other than
the owner, manager and employees is allowed in them.
   (J)   A licensee must not be open for business to the public:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through
Saturday; and
      (2)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sundays.
Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.13 SUSPENSIONS AND REVOCATIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Delinquent taxes. The City Council may suspend or revoke a license
issued under this chapter for operation on a premises on which real estate
taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city or of the state are
due, delinquent, or unpaid, unless the non-payment is not under the control of
the licensee. If an action has been commenced under M.S. Ch. 278, as it may be
amended from time to time, questioning the amount or validity of taxes, the
Council may on application by the licensee waive strict compliance with this
provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes, or a portion of them,
that remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year after becoming due, unless
the one-year period is extended through no fault of the licensee.
   (B)   Violations. 
      (1)   The Council may either suspend for up to 60 days or revoke a
license for a violation upon a finding that the licensee or an agent or
employee of the licensee has failed to comply with an applicable statute,
regulation or ordinance relating to the subject matter of this chapter or
violated the statutes in division (B)(2) of this section. No suspension or
revocation will take effect until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity
for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as they may be amended from
time to time, with the exception of the suspension provided for in division (B)
(2) of this section.
      (2)   Conviction of a sex crime, as identified in M.S. §§ 609.293 to
609.352, 609.746 to 609.749, 609.79 or 518B.01, as they may be amended from
time to time, or related statute dealing with sexual assault, sexual conduct,
harassment, obscenity or domestic abuse by the licensee will result in the
immediate suspension pending a hearing on revocation of a license issued under
this chapter.
   (C)   Prompt judicial review. Prompt and final judicial review shall be
provided to any applicant or licensee when a license is denied, suspended or
revoked.
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided by state law, a person violating a provision of
this chapter is subject to the penalties established in §
10.99. A fine or sentence imposed does not affect the right of the city to
suspend or revoke the license of the licensee as the Council deems appropriate.
APPENDIX I
RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINDINGS OF THE REPORT
OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S WORKING GROUP ON THE REGULATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESSES
   WHEREAS because of its small size, the city lacks the resources to
investigate and research the impact sexually oriented businesses would have on
the character of the city's neighborhoods; and
   WHEREAS the city intends to rely on the Report of the Attorney General's
Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses, dated June 6,
1989, which is included as Appendix II to Chapter 119 of the Minnesota Basic
Code of Ordinances, as a basis for regulating sexually oriented businesses in
this city; and
   WHEREAS the members of the City Council have reviewed this Report;
   NOW THEREFORE, the City Council of this City hereby accepts the
recommendations and conclusions of this Report and adopts the recommendations
and conclusions by reference of the Report of the Attorney General's Working
Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses, dated June 6, 1989;
and by passage of this resolution implements the provisions of Minnesota Basic
Code of Ordinances Chapters 119 and 153.
Signed:                                                 
      Mayor
Attest:                                                 
      City Clerk
   Note: If this resolution is being adopted only to implement the provisions
of Minnesota Basic Code of Ordinances §
150.05, then the words “and by passage of this resolution implements the
provisions of Minnesota Basic Code of Ordinances Chapters 119 and 153” in the
last paragraph above should be deleted from the resolution.
APPENDIX II
REPORT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S WORKING GROUP ON THE REGULATION OF SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESSES
MEMBERS_OF_THE_ATTORNEY_GENERAL'S_WORKING_GROUP_ON_THE_REGULATION_OF_SEXUALLY
ORIENTED_BUSINESSES (PDF Format)
Ann Burkhart   John Laux
Associate Professor   Minneapolis Chief of Police
University of Minnesota   Minneapolis, Minnesota
Law School
Minneapolis, Minnesota
Honorable Kathleen A. Blatz   Sharon Sayles-Belton
Minnesota House of Representatives   Councilwoman
IR/Bloomington, Minnesota   Minneapolis, Minnesota
Honorable Terry M. Dempsey   Honorable Kathleen Vellenga
Minnesota House of Representatives   Minnesota House of Representatives
IR/New Ulm, Minnesota   DFL/St. Paul, Minnesota
Thomas L. Fabel   William Wilson
Lindquist & Vennum   Councilman
Minneapolis, Minnesota   St. Paul, Minnesota
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
   -i-
   -ii-
   INTRODUCTION
   Many communities in Minnesota have raised concerns about the impact of
sexually oriented businesses on their quality of life. It has been suggested
that sexually oriented businesses serve as a magnet to draw prostitution and
other crimes into a vulnerable neighborhood. Community groups have also voiced
the concern that sexually oriented businesses can have an adverse effect on
property values and impede neighborhood revitalization. It has been suggested
that spillover effects of the businesses can lead to sexual harassment of
residents and scatter unwanted evidence of sexual liaisons in the paths of
children and the yards of neighbors.
   Although many communities have sought to regulate sexually oriented
businesses, these efforts have often been controversial and equally often
unsuccessful. Much community sentiment against sexually oriented businesses is
an outgrowth of hostility to sexually explicit forms of expression. Any
successful strategy to combat sexually oriented businesses must take into
account the constitutional rights to free speech which limit available
remedies.
   Only those pornographic materials which are determined to be “obscene” have
no constitutional protection. As explained later in more detail, only that
pornography which, according to community standards and taken as a whole,
“appeals to the prurient interest” (as opposed to an interest in healthy
sexuality), describes or depicts sexual conduct in a “patently offensive way”
and “lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value,” can be
prohibited or prosecuted. Miller v. California, 413 U.S. 15, 24 (1973).
   Other pornography and the businesses which purvey it can only be regulated
where a harm is demonstrated and the remedy is sufficiently tailored to prevent
that harm without burdening First Amendment rights. In order to reduce or
eliminate the impacts of sexually oriented businesses, each community must find
the balance between the dangers of pornography and the constitutional rights to
free speech. Each community must have evidence of harm. Each community must
know the range of legal tools which can be used to combat the adverse impacts
of pornography and sexually oriented businesses.
   -1-
   On June 21, 1988, Attorney General Hubert Humphrey III announced the
formation of a Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses
to assist public officials and private citizens in finding legal ways to reduce
the impacts of sexually oriented businesses. Members of the Working Group were
selected for their special expertise in the areas of zoning and law enforcement
and included bipartisan representatives of the state Legislature as well as
members of both the Minneapolis and St. Paul city councils who have played
critical roles in developing city ordinances regulating sexually oriented
businesses.
   The Working Group heard testimony and conducted briefings on the impacts of
sexually oriented businesses on crime and communities and the methods available
to reduce or eliminate these impacts. Extensive research was conducted to
review regulation and prosecution strategies used in other states and to
analyze the legal ramifications of these strategies.
   As testimony was presented, the Working Group reached a consensus that a
comprehensive approach is required to reduce or eliminate the impacts of
sexually oriented businesses. Zoning and licensing regulations are needed to
protect residents from the intrusion of “combat zone” sexual crime and
harassment into their neighborhoods. Prosecution of obscenity has played an
important role in each of the cities which have significantly reduced or
eliminated pornography. The additional threat posed by the involvement of
organized crime, if proven to exist, may justify the resources needed for
prosecution of obscenity or require use of a forfeiture or racketeering
statute.
   The Working Group determined that it could neither advocate prohibition of
all sexually explicit material nor the use of regulation as a pretext to
eliminate all sexually oriented businesses. This conclusion is no endorsement
of pornography or the businesses which profit from it. The Working Group
believes much pornography conveys a message which is degrading to women and an
affront to human dignity. Commercial pornography promotes the misuse of
vulnerable people and can be used by either a perpetrator or a victim to
rationalize sexual violence. Sexually oriented businesses have a deteriorating
effect upon neighborhoods and draw involvement of organized crime.
   -2-
   Communities are not powerless to combat these problems. But to be most
effective in defending itself from pornography each community must work from
the evidence and within the law. The report of this Working Group is designed
to assist local communities in developing an appropriate and effective defense.
   The first section of the report discusses evidence that sexually oriented
businesses, and the materials from which they profit, have an adverse impact on
the surrounding communities. It provides relevant evidence which local
communities can use as part of their justification for reasonable regulation of
sexually oriented businesses.
   The Working Group also discussed the relationship between sexually oriented
businesses and organized crime. Concerns about these broader effects of
sexually oriented businesses underlie the Working Group's recommendations that
obscenity should be prosecuted and the tools of obscenity seized when sexually
oriented businesses break the law.
   The second section of this report describes strategies for regulating
sexually oriented businesses and prosecuting obscenity. The report presents the
principal alternatives, the recommendations of the Working Group and some of
the legal issues to consider when these strategies are adopted.
   The goal of the Attorney General's Working Group in providing this report is
to support and assist local communities who are struggling against the blight
of pornography. When citizens, police officers and city officials are concerned
about crime and the deterioration of neighborhoods, each of us lives next door.
No community stands alone.
   SUMMARY
   The Attorney General's Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented
Businesses makes the following recommendations to assist communities in
protecting themselves from the adverse effects of sexually oriented businesses.
Some or all of these recommendations may be needed in any given
   -3-
community. Each community must decide for itself the nature of the problems it
faces and the proposed solutions which would be most fitting.
1.   City and county attorneys' offices in the Twin Cities metropolitan area
should designate a prosecutor to pursue obscenity prosecutions and support that
prosecutor with specialized training.
2.   The Legislature should- consider funding a pilot program to demonstrate
the efficacy of obscenity prosecution and should encourage the pooling of
resources between urban and suburban prosecutor offices by making such
cooperation a condition for receiving any such grant funds.
3.   The Attorney General should provide informational resources for city and
county attorneys who prosecute obscenity crimes.
4.   Obscenity prosecutions should begin with cases involving those materials
which most flagrantly offend community standards.
5.   The Legislature should amend the present forfeiture statute to include as
grounds for forfeiture all felonies and gross misdemeanors pertaining to
solicitation, inducement, promotion or receiving profit from prostitution and
operation of a “disorderly house.”
6.   The Legislature should consider the potential for a RICO-like statute with
an obscenity predicate.
7.   Prosecutors should use the public nuisance statute to enjoin operations of
sexually oriented businesses which repeatedly violate laws pertaining to
prostitution, gambling or operating a disorderly house.
   -4-
8.   Communities should document findings of adverse secondary effects of
sexually oriented businesses prior to enacting zoning regulations to control
these uses so that such regulations can be upheld if challenged in court.
9.   To reduce the adverse effects of sexually oriented businesses, communities
should adopt zoning regulations which set distance requirements between
sexually oriented businesses and sensitive uses, including but not limited to
residential areas, schools, child care facilities, churches and parks.
10.   To reduce adverse impacts from concentration of these businesses,
communities should adopt zoning ordinances which set distances between sexually
oriented businesses and between sexually oriented businesses and liquor
establishments, and should consider restricting sexually oriented businesses to
one use per building.
11.   Communities should require existing businesses to comply with new zoning
or other regulation of sexually oriented businesses within a reasonable time so
that prior uses will conform to new laws.
12.   Prior to enacting licensing regulations, communities should document
findings of adverse secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses and the
relationship between these effects and proposed regulations so that such
regulations can be upheld if challenged in court.
13.   Communities should adopt regulations which reduce the likelihood of
criminal activity related to sexually oriented businesses, including but not
limited to open booth ordinances and ordinances which authorize denial or
revocation of licenses when the licensee has committed offenses relevant to the
operation of the business.
   -5-
14.   Communities should adopt regulations which reduce exposure of the
community and minors to the blighting appearance of sexually oriented
businesses, including but not limited to regulations of signage and exterior
design of such businesses, and should enforce state law requiring sealed
wrappers and opaque covers on sexually oriented material.
   IMPACTS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   The Working Group reviewed evidence from studies conducted in Minneapolis
and St. Paul and in other cities throughout the country. These studies, taken
together, provide compelling evidence that sexually oriented businesses are
associated with high crime rates and depression of property values. In
addition, the Working Group heard testimony that the character of a
neighborhood can dramatically change when there is a concentration of sexually
oriented businesses adjacent to residential property.
   Minneapolis Study
   In 1980, on direction from the Minneapolis City Council, the Minneapolis
Crime Prevention Center examined the effects of sex-oriented and alcohol-
oriented adult entertainment upon property values and crime rates. This study
used both simple regression and multiple regression statistical analysis to
evaluate whether there was a causal relationship between these businesses and
neighborhood blight.
   The study concluded that there was a close association between sexually
oriented businesses, high crime rates and low housing values in a neighborhood.
When the data was reexamined using control variables such as the mean income in
the neighborhood to determine whether the association proved causation, it was
unclear whether sexually oriented businesses caused a decline in property
values. The Minneapolis study concluded that sexually oriented businesses
concentrate in areas which are relatively deteriorated and, at most, they may
weakly contribute to the continued depression of property values.
   -6-
   However, the Minneapolis study found a much stronger relationship between
sexually oriented businesses and crime rates. A crime index was constructed
including robbery, burglary, rape and assault. The rate of crime in areas near
sexually oriented businesses was then compared to crime rates in other areas.
The study drew the following conclusions:
1.   The effects of sexually oriented businesses on the crime rate index is
positive and significant regardless of which control variable is used.
2.   Sexually oriented businesses continue to be associated with higher crime
rates, even when the control variables' impacts are considered simultaneously.
   According to the statistical analysis conducted in the Minneapolis study,
the addition of one sexually oriented business to a census tract area will
cause an increase in the overall crime rate index in that area by 9.15 crimes
per thousand people per year even if all other social factors remain unchanged.
   St. Paul
   In 1978, the St. Paul Division of Planning and the Minnesota Crime Control
Planning board conducted a study of the relationship between sex-oriented and
alcohol-oriented adult entertainment businesses and neighborhood blight. This
study looked at crime rates per thousand and median housing values over time as
indices of neighborhood deterioration. The study combined sex-oriented and
alcohol-oriented businesses, so its conclusions are only suggestive of the
effects of sexually oriented businesses alone. Nevertheless, the study reached
the following important conclusions:
1.   There is a statistically significant correlation between the location of
adult businesses and neighborhood deterioration.
   -7-
2.   Adult entertainment establishments tend to locate in somewhat deteriorated
areas.
3.   Additional relative deterioration of an area follows location of an adult
business in the area.
4.   There is a significantly higher crime rate associated with two such
businesses in an area than is associated with only one adult business.
5.   Housing values are also significantly lower in an area where there are
three adult businesses than they are in an area with only one such business.
   Similar conclusions about the adverse impact of sexually oriented businesses
on the community were reached in studies conducted in cities across the nation.
   Indianapolis
   In 1983, the City of Indianapolis researched the relationship between
sexually oriented businesses and property values. The study was based on data
from a national random sample of 20 percent of the American Institute of Real
Estate Appraisers.
   The Study found the following:
1.   The appraisers overwhelmingly (80%) felt that an adult bookstore located
in a neighborhood would have a negative impact on residential property values
within one block of the site.
2.   The real estate experts also overwhelmingly (71%) believed that there
would be a detrimental effect on commercial property values within the same one
block radius.
   -8-
3.   This negative impact dissipates as the distance from the site increases,
so that most appraisers believed that by three blocks away from an adult
bookstore, its impact on property values would be minimal.
   Indianapolis also studied the relationship between crime rates and sexually
oriented bookstores, cabarets, theaters, arcades and massage parlors. A 1984
study entitled “Adult Entertainment Businesses in Indianapolis” found that
areas with sexually oriented businesses had higher crime rates than similar
areas with no sexually oriented businesses.
1.   Major crimes, such as criminal homicide, rape, robbery, assault, burglary,
and larceny, occurred at a rate that was 23 percent higher in those areas which
had sexually oriented businesses.
2.   The sex-related crime rate, including rape, indecent exposure, and child
molestation, was found to be 77 percent higher in those areas with sexually
oriented businesses.
   Phoenix
   The Planning Department of Phoenix, Arizona published a study in 1979
entitled “Relation of Criminal Activity and Adult Businesses.” This study
showed that arrests for sexual crimes and the location of sexually oriented
businesses were directly related. The study compared three areas with sexually
oriented businesses with three control areas which had similar demographic and
land use characteristics, but no sexually oriented establishments. The study
found that:
1.   Property crimes were 43 percent higher in those areas which contained a
sexually oriented business.
2.   The sex crime rate was 500 percent higher in those areas with sexually
oriented businesses.
   -9-
3.   The study area with the greatest concentration of sexually oriented
businesses had a sex crimes rate over 11 times as large as a similar area
having no sexually oriented businesses.
   Los Angeles
   A study released by the Los Angeles Police Department in 1984 supports a
relationship between sexually oriented businesses and rising crime rates. This
study is less definitive, since it was not designed to use similar areas as a
control. The study indicated that there were 11 sexually oriented adult
establishments in the Hollywood, California area in 1969. By 1975, the number
had grown to 88. During the same time period, reported incidents of “Part I”
crime (i.e., homicide, rape, aggravated assault, robbery, burglary, larceny and
vehicle theft) increased 7.6 percent in the Hollywood area while the rest of
Los Angeles had a 4.2 percent increase. “Part II” arrests (i.e. forgery,
prostitution, narcotics, liquor law violations, and gambling) increased 3.4
percent in the rest of Los Angeles, but 45.4 percent in the Hollywood area.
   Concentration of Sexually Oriented Businesses
   Neighborhood Case Study
   In St. Paul, there is one neighborhood which has an especially heavy
concentration of sexually oriented businesses. The blocks adjacent to the
intersection of University Avenue and Dale Street have more than 20 percent of
the city's adult uses (4 out of 19), including all of St. Paul's sexually
oriented bookstores and movie theaters.
   The neighborhood, as a whole, shows signs of significant distress, including
the highest unemployment rates in the city, the highest percentage of families
below the poverty line in the city, the lowest median family income and the
lowest percentage of high school and college graduates. (See 40-Acre Study on
Adult Entertainment, St. Paul Department of Planning and Economic Development,
Division of Planning, 1987 at p. 19.) It would be difficult to attribute these
problems in any simple way to sexually oriented businesses.
   -10-
   However, it is likely that there is a relationship between the concentration
of sexually oriented businesses and neighborhood crime rates. The St. Paul
Police Department has determined that St. Paul's street prostitution is
concentrated in a “street prostitution zone” immediately adjacent to the
intersection where the sexually oriented businesses are located. Police
statistics for 1986 show that, of 279 prostitution arrests for which specific
locations could be identified, 70 percent (195) were within the “street
prostitution zone.” Moreover, all of the locations with 10 or more arrests for
prostitution were within this zone.
   The location of sexually oriented businesses has also created a perception
in the community that this is an unsafe and undesirable part of the city. In
1983, Western State Bank, which is currently located across the street from an
adult bookstore, hired a research firm to survey area residents regarding their
preferred location for a bank and their perceptions of different locations. A
sample of 305 people were given a list of locations and asked, “Are there any
of these locations where you would not feel safe conducting your banking
business?”
   No more than 4 per cent of the respondents said they would feel unsafe
banking at other locations in the city. But 36 percent said they would feel
unsafe banking at Dale and University, the corner where the sexually oriented
businesses are concentrated.
   The Working Group reviewed the 1987 40-Acre Study on Adult Entertainment
prepared by the Division of Planning in St. Paul's Department of Planning and
Economic Development. This study summarized testimony presented to the Planning
Commission regarding neighborhood problems:
Residents in the University/Dale area report frequent sex-related harassment by
motorists and pedestrians in the neighborhood. Although it cannot be proved
that the harassers are patrons of adult businesses, it is reasonable to suspect
such a connection. Moreover, neighborhood residents submitted evidence to the
Planning Commission in the form of discarded pornographic literature allegedly
found in the streets, sidewalks, bushes and alleys near adult businesses. Such
   -11-
literature is sexually very explicit, even on the cover, and under the present
circumstances becomes available to minors even though its sale to minors is
prohibited.
   Testimony
   The Working Group heard testimony that a concentration of sexually oriented
businesses has serious impacts upon the surrounding neighborhood. The Working
Group heard that pornographic materials are left in adjacent lots. One person
reported to the police that he had found 50 pieces of pornographic material in
a church parking lot near a sexually oriented business. Neighbors report
finding used condoms on their lawns and sidewalks and that sex acts with
prostitutes occur on streets and alleys in plain view of families and children.
The Working Group heard testimony that arrest rates understate the level of
crime associated with sexually oriented businesses. Many robberies and thefts
from “johns” and many assaults upon prostitutes are never reported to the
police.
   Prostitution also results in harassment of neighborhood residents. Young
girls on their way to school or young women on their way to work are often
propositioned by johns. The Flick theater caters to homosexual trade, and male
prostitution has been noted in the area. Neighborhood boys and men are also
accosted on the street. A police officer testified that one resident had
informed him that he found used condoms in his yard all the time. Both his
teenage son and daughter had been solicited on their way to school and to work.
   The Working Group heard testimony that in the Frogtown neighborhood,
immediately north of the University-Dale intersection in St. Paul, there has
been a change over time in the quality of life since the sexually oriented
businesses moved into the area. The Working Group heard that the neighborhood
used to be primarily middle class, did not have a high crime rate and did not
have prostitution. St. Paul police officers testified that they believed the
sexually oriented businesses caused neighborhood problems, particularly the
increase in prostitution and other crime rates. Property values were suffering,
since the presence of high crime rates made the area less desirable to people
who would have the ability and inclination to improve their homes.
   -12-
   The Working Group made some inquiry to determine to what extent smaller
cities outside the Twin Cities Metropolitan area suffered adverse impacts of
sexually oriented businesses. The Working Group was informed by the chiefs of
police of Northfield and Owatonna that neither city had adult bookstores or
similar sexually oriented businesses. Police chiefs in Rochester and Winona
stated that sexually oriented businesses in their communities operate in non-
residential areas. In addition, there is no “concentration” problem. In
Rochester, there are two facilities in a shopping mall and a single bookstore
in a depressed commercial/business neighborhood. The Winona store is located in
a downtown business area. The police chiefs stated that they had no evidence of
increased crime rates in the area adjacent to these facilities. They had no
information as to the effect which these businesses might have on local
property values.
   Information presented to the Working Group indicates that community impacts
of sexually oriented businesses are primarily a function of two variables,
proximity to residential areas and concentration. Property values are directly
affected within a small radius of the location of a sexually oriented business.
Concentration may compound depression of property values and may lead to an
increase in crime sufficient to change the quality of life and perceived
desirability of property in a neighborhood.
   The evidence suggests that the impacts of sexually oriented businesses are
exacerbated when they are located near each other. Police officers testified to
the Working Group, that “vice breeds vice.” When sexually oriented businesses
have multiple uses (i.e. theater, bookstore, nude dancing, peep booths), one
building can have the impact of several separate businesses. The Working Group
heard testimony that concentration of sexually oriented businesses creates a
“war zone” which serves as a magnet for people from other areas who “know”
where to find prostitutes and sexual entertainment. The presence of bars in the
immediate vicinity of sexually oriented businesses also compounds impacts upon
the neighborhood.
   -13-
   The Attorney General's Working Group believes that regulatory strategies
designed to reduce the concentration of sexually oriented businesses, insulate
residential areas from them, and reduce the likelihood of associated criminal
activity would constitute a rational response to evidence of the impacts which
these businesses have upon local communities.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES AND ORGANIZED CRIME
   Infiltration of organized crime into sexually oriented businesses reinforces
the need for prosecution of obscenity and requires specific regulatory or law
enforcement tools. The Working Group attempted to assess both the present and
potential relationship between organized crime and sexually oriented
businesses.
   The Working Group heard testimony from a witness who had been prosecuting
obscenity cases for the past thirteen years that many sexually oriented
businesses have out-of-town absentee owners. If the manager of a local business
is prosecuted on an obscenity charge, his testimony may make it possible to
pierce the corporate veil and identify the true owners.
   The Working Group heard testimony that an organized crime entity may operate
somewhat like a franchisor. In order to stay in business, the local manager of
a sexually oriented business may have to pay fees to organized crime. The
makers and wholesalers of pornographic materials are also likely to be involved
with organized crime.
   The Working Group conducted additional research to assess the relationship
between sexually oriented businesses and organized crime. The Working Group was
informed by prosecutors of obscenity that there were many ways in which
organized crime entities could derive a benefit from sexually oriented
businesses. There is a large profit margin in pornography. The presence of
coin-operated peep booths provides an opportunity to launder money. Cash
obtained from illegal activities, such as prostitution or narcotics, can be
explained as the income of peep booths. Cash income can also escape taxation,
in violation of law.
   -14-
   Although it is clear that organized crime is involved to some degree in the
pornography industry, various sources reach different conclusions as to the
depth and extent of this involvement. Part of the difference in assessment is
based on differences in the way the term “organized crime” is defined.
Authorities who restrict their definition of organized crime to the highly
organized ethnic hierarchy known as La Cosa Nostra (LCN) tend to find fewer
links than those who define the term to include other organized criminal
enterprises. Where there has been intensive law enforcement and prosecution, it
is more likely that linkage between sexually oriented businesses and organized
crime figures will be evident.
   The Working Group has adopted the definition of organized crime contained in
Minnesota's Report of the Legislative Commission on Organized Crime (1975). The
Working Group is concerned about the relation between sexually oriented
businesses and any “organized criminal conspiracy of two or more persons that
is continuous in nature, involves activity generally crossing jurisdictional
lines and results in third-party profit.” The threat from organized crime
includes, but is not limited to involvement of national crime enterprises such
as LCN.
   Recent federal indictments of James G. Hafiz in Indiana for perjury1/ and of
Harry V. Mohney in Michigan for tax evasion suggest a possible connection
between organized crime and a Minnesota pornography business. Hafiz, a
Minnesota resident who is an agent of Beverly Theater, Inc., the company which
operated the Faust Theater in St. Paul2/ has been linked to Mohney, a major
pornographer based in Michigan. The indictments allege that Mohney caused the
incorporation of the company which operated the Faust, that a corporation owned
by Mohney paid for improvements to the Faust and that Mohney is, in fact, the
owner of numerous sexually oriented businesses, including the Faust. See United
States v. Hafiz, Indictment, No. IP 88-102-CR (S.D. Ind., Sept. 15, 1988);
United States v. Mohney, Indictment, No. 88-50062 (E.D. Mich. Sept. 9, 1988)).
_____________________________________
1/   Hafiz was acquitted of the perjury charges. St. Paul Pioneer Press, Jan.
11, 1989, p. 10A.
2/   The City of St. Paul bought out the Faust for $1.8 million, closing the
entertainment complex on March 7, 1989.
   -15-
   Mohney, in turn, has been linked with national organized crime enterprises.
A 1977 report of the United States Justice Department stated:
It is believed that Harry V. Mohney of Durand, Michigan, is one of the largest
dealers in pornography in the United States ... He is alleged to have a close
association with the LCN. Columbo and the LCN DeCavalcante, both of which are
very influential in pornography in the eastern United States. In Michigan,
Mohney is known to hire individuals with organized crime associations to manage
his businesses. His businesses and corporations consist of 60 known adult
bookstores, massage parlors, art theaters, adult drive-in movies, go-go type
lounges and pornographic warehouses in Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky,
Tennessee, Wisconsin, Iowa, Ohio and California. He is involved in the
financing and production of pornographic movies, magazines, books and
newspapers. He also directs the importation and distribution of his own and
other pornographic publications to retail and wholesale outlets throughout the
United States and Canada ... He has a working relationship with DeCavalcante's
representative Robert DiBernardo and has met with Vito Giacalone and Joseph
Zerilli of the LCN Detroit. He has to cater to both to operate in Michigan.
   U.S. Justice Dep't, Organized Crime Involvement in Pornoqraphy, reprinted in
the Attorney General's Comm'n on Pornography (hereinafter “Pornography
Commission”), 2 Final Report at 1229-30 (1986).
   Organized crime has the potential to infiltrate Minnesota's pornography
industry. Evidence on a national level highlights the vulnerability of sexually
oriented businesses to criminal control. A number of sources have reported that
there is a connection between organized crime and the pornography industry.
   The Pornography Commission reported that the Washington, D.C., Metropolitan
Police Department “determined that traditional organized crime was
substantially involved in and did essentially control much of the major
pornography distribution in the United States during the years 1977 and 1978.”
2 Final Report at 1044-45. The Washington, D.C., study “further concluded that
the combination of the large amounts of money involved, the incredibly low
priority obscenity enforcement had within police departments and prosecutors'
offices in an area where manpower intensive investigations were essential
   -16-
for success, and the imposition of minimal fines and no jail time upon random
convictions resulted in a low risk and high profit endeavor for organized crime
figures who became involved in pornography.” Id. at 1045.
The FBI concluded in 1978:
Information obtained ... points out the vast control of the multi-million
dollar pornography business in the United States by a few individuals with
direct connections with what is commonly known as the organized crime
establishment in the United States, specifically, La Cosa Nostra . . .
Information received from sources of this bureau indicates that pornography is
(a major) income maker for La Cosa Nostra in the United States behind gambling
and narcotics. Although La Cosa Nostra does not physically oversee the day-to-
day workings of the majority of pornography business in the United States, it
is apparent that they have “agreements” with those involved in the pornography
business in allowing these people to operate independently by paying off
members of organized crime for the privilege of being allowed to operate in
certain geographical areas.
Id. at 1046, (quoting Federal Bureau of Investigation Report Regarding the
Extent of Organized Crime Development in Pornography, 6 (1978)).
   A brief survey of 59 FBI field offices conducted in 1985 found that about
three-quarters of those offices could not verify that traditional organized
crime families were involved in the manufacture or distribution of pornography.
Several offices did, however, report some involvement by members and associates
of organized crime. Id. at 1046-47.
   Stanley Ronquest, Jr., a supervisory FBI special agent for traditional
organized crime at FBI headquarters in Washington, D.C., was interviewed by
Attorney General staff. Ronquest stated that LCN has not been directly involved
in the pornography industry in the last ten years. However, a former FBI agent
told the Pornography Commission:
In my opinion, based upon twenty-three years of experience in pornography and
obscenity investigations and study, it is practically impossible to be in the
retail end of pornography industry (today) without dealing in some fashion with
organized crime either the mafia or some other facet of non-mafia never-the-
less highly organized crime. Id. at 1047-48.
   -17-
   Thomas Bohling of the Chicago Police Department Organized Crime Division,
Vice Control Section, told the Pornography Commission that “it is the belief of
state, federal and local law enforcement that the pornography industry is
controlled by organized crime families. If they do not own the business
outright, they most certainly extract street tax from independent smut
peddlers.” Id. at 1048 (emphasis in original).
   The Pornography Commission stated that it had been advised by Los Angeles
Police Chief Daryl F. Gates that “organized crime families from Chicago, New
York, New Jersey and Florida are openly controlling and directing the major
pornography operations in Los Angeles.” Id.
   The Pornography Commission was told by Jimmy Fratianno, described by the
Commission as a member of LCN, “that large profits have kept organized crime
heavily involved in the obscenity industry.” Id. at 1052. Fratianno testified
that.”95% of the families are involved in one way or another in pornography.
... It's too big. They just won't let it go.” Id. at 1052-53.
   The Pornography Commission concluded that “organized crime in its
traditional LCN forms and other forms exerts substantial influence and control
over the obscenity industry. Though a number of significant producers and
distributors are not members of LCN families, all major producers and
distributors of obscene material are highly organized and carry out illegal
activities with a great deal of sophistication.” Id. at 1053.
   The Pornography Commission reported that Michael George Thevis, reportedly
one of the largest pornographers in the United States during the 1970's was
convicted in 1979 of RICO (Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations)
violations including murder, arson and extortion. The Commission also reported
examples of other crimes associated with the pornography industry, including
prostitution and other sexual abuse, narcotics distribution, money laundering
and tax violations, copyright violations and fraud.  Id. at 1056-65.
   -18-
   Although the Pornography Commission report has been criticized for relying
on the testimony of unreliable informants in drawing its conclusions finding
links between pornography and organized crime (See Scott, Book Reviews, 78 J.
Crim. L & Criminology 1145, 1158-59 (1988)), its conclusions find additional
support in recent state studies.
   The California Department of Justice recently reported that:
California's primacy in the adult videotape industry is of law enforcement
concern because the pornography business has been prone to organized crime
involvement. Immense profits can be realized through pornography operations,
and until recently, making and distributing pornography involved a relatively
low risk of prosecution. But more aggressive law enforcement efforts and
turmoil within the pornography business has destabilized the smooth flow of
easy money for some of its major operations ....
As long as control over pornography distribution is contested, and organized
crime figures continue their involvement in the business, the pornography
industry will remain of interest to law enforcement officials statewide.
Bureau of Organized Crime and Criminal Intelligence, Department of Justice,
State of California, Organized Crime in California 1987: Annual Report to the
California Legislature at 59-62 (1988).
   The Pennsylvania Crime Commission similarly determined in a 1980 report that
most pornography stores examined were affiliated or owned by one of three men
who had ties with “nationally known pornography figures who are members or
associated of organized crime families.” Pennsylvania Crime Commission, A
Decade of Organized Crime: 1980 Report at 119.
   For example, Reuben Sturman, a leading pornography industry figure based in
Cleveland, was reported by the FBI in 1978 to have built his empire with the
assistance of LCN member DiBernardo. Federal Bureau of Investigation Report
Regarding the Extent of Organized Crime Involvement in Pornography (1978).
Sturman, who reportedly controls half of the $8 billion United States
pornography
   -19-
industry, was recently indicted by a federal grand jury in Las Vegas for
racketeering violations and by
a federal grand jury in Cleveland for income tax evasion and tax fraud.
Newsweek, August 8, 1988, p. 3.
   Evidence of the vulnerability of sexually oriented businesses to organized
crime involvement underscores the importance of criminal prosecution of these
businesses when they engage in illegal activities, including distribution of
obscenity and support of prostitution. Prosecution can increase the risk and
reduce the profit margin of conducting illegal activities. It may also disclose
organized crime association with local pornography businesses and increase the
costs of criminal enterprise in Minnesota.
   In addition to prosecution, forfeiture of property used in the illegal
activities related to sexually oriented businesses can cut deeply into profits.
Regulation to permit license revocation for conviction of subsequent crimes may
also expose and increase control over criminal enterprises related to sexually
oriented businesses.
   PROSECUTORIAL AND REGULATORY ALTERNATIVES
   The regulation of many sexually oriented businesses, like other businesses
dealing in activity with an expressive component, is circumscribed by the First
Amendment of the United States Constitution.3/ Nonetheless, the First Amendment
does not impose a barrier to the prosecution of obscenity, which is not
protected by the First Amendment, or to reasonable regulation of sexually
oriented businesses if the
________________________________________
3/   The First Amendment provides:
Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or
of the press, or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, or to petition
the government for a redress of grievances.
The constitutional guarantee of freedom of speech, often the basis for
challenges to regulation of sexually oriented businesses, restricts state as
well as federal actions. See, e.g., Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U.S. 380, 47 S. Ct.
655 (1927).
   -20-
regulation is not designed to suppress the content of expressive activity. and
is sufficiently tailored to accomplish the regulatory purpose.
   The Working Group believes that communities have more prosecutorial and
regulatory opportunities than they may currently recognize. The purpose of this
section of the Report is to identify and recommend enforcement and regulatory
opportunities. Of course, each community must decide on its own how to balance
its limited resources and the wide variety of competing demands for such
resources.
1.   OBSCENITY PROSECUTION
   Obscene material is not protected by the First Amendment. Miller v.
California, 413 U.S. 15, 93 S. Ct. 2607 (1973). The sale or distribution of
obscene material in Minnesota is a criminal offense. The penalty was recently
increased to up to one year in jail and a $3,000 fine for a first offense, and
up to two years in jail and a $10,000 fine for a second or subsequent offense
within five years. Minn. Stat. §
617.241, subd. 3 (1988).4/
   The Working Group believes that Minnesota's obscenity statutes are adequate
to prosecute and penalize the sale and distribution of obscene materials.
However, historically, widespread obscenity prosecution has not occurred.
   The Working Group believes this is not because the sale or distribution of
obscene publications in Minnesota is rare, but because prosecutors have been
reluctant to bring obscenity charges, because of limited resources,
difficulties faced when prosecuting obscenity, and because obscenity has
historically been considered a victimless crime.
_________________________________
4/   The prior penalty was a fine only -- up to $10,000 for a first offense and
up to $20,000 for a second or subsequent offense. Minn. Stat. § 617.241, subd.
3 (1986). Obscenity arrests are so infrequent that incidents involving possible
violations of section 617.241 are not separately compiled by the Minnesota
Bureau of Criminal Comprehension. See Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, 1987
Minnesota Annual Resort on Crime, Missing Children and Bureau of Criminal
Apprehension Activities.
   -21-
   Obscenity, however, should no longer be viewed as a victimless crime.5/
There is mounting evidence that sexually oriented businesses are, as described
earlier in this report, often associated with increases in crime rates and a
decline in the quality of life of neighborhoods in which they are located.
Further, as discussed previously, when there is no prosecution of obscenity,
large cash profits make pornographic operations very attractive to members of
organized crime. The Working Group thus believes that prosecution of obscenity,
particularly cases involving children, violence or bestiality, should assume a
higher priority for law enforcement officials.
   In addition, many of the difficulties faced when prosecuting obscenity can
be addressed by adequate training and assistance. In order to prove that
material is obscene, a prosecutor must prove:
   (i)   that the average person, applying contemporary community standards
would find that the work, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest in
sex;
   (ii)   that the work depicts sexual conduct ... in a patently offensive
manner; and
   (iii)   that the work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
Minn. Stat. §
617.241, subd. 1(a)(i-iii) (1988). This statutory standard was drawn to be
consistent with constitutional standards set forth in Miller, supra.
__________________________________________
5/   Two blue ribbon commissions have reached different conclusions regarding
the harmfulness of sexually explicit material to individuals. A presidential
Commission on Obscenity and Pornography concluded in 1970 that there was no
evidence of “social or individual harms” caused by sexually explicit materials
and, therefore, “federal, state and local legislation prohibiting the sale,
exhibition, or distribution of sexual materials to consulting adults should be
repealed.” The Report of the Comm'n on Obscenity and Pornography at 57-8
(Bantam Paperback ed. 1970). However, in 1986, the Attorney General's
Commission on Pornography concluded that “sexually violent materials ... bear
... a causal relationship to antisocial acts of sexual violence ... [and that]
the evidence supports the conclusion that substantial exposure to [non-violent]
degrading material increases the likelihood for an individual [to] ... commit
an act of sexual violence or sexual coercion.” Attorney General's Comm'n on
Pornography, 1 Final Report at 326, 333 (1986).
   -22-
   To be sure, prosecutors face a number of hazards in prosecuting obscenity.
They include inadequate training in this specialized area of law, attempts by
defense attorneys to remove jurors who find pornography offensive, the offering
into evidence of polls and surveys through expert testimony to prove tolerant
community standards, efforts to guide jurors with jury instructions favorable
to the defense, and discouragement with unsuccessful prosecutions.
   But the hazards can be overcome. Alan E. Sears, former executive director of
the U.S. Attorney General's Commission on Pornography has stated:
   Prosecutors can successfully obtain obscenity convictions in virtually any
jurisdiction in the United States. In order to obtain a conviction, it is
incumbent upon a prosecutor to prepare well, know the law, not fall into the
“one case syndrome” trap, obtain a representative jury through proper voir
dire, keep the focus of the trial on the unlawful conduct of the defendant, and
obtain legally sound instructions.
   Sears, “How To Lose A Pornography Case,” The CDL Reporter (n.d.).
   The Working Group heard testimony from prosecutors who have pursued
obscenity cases nationally regarding effective ways to prosecute obscenity
cases. Materials can be bought or rented, rather than seized under warrant. In
the absence of survey data, community standards can be left to the wisdom of
the jury. In that case, experts should be prepared to testify if the defense
attempts to make a statistical case that the material is not obscene.
Prosecution of obscenity is also likely to be most effective if initial
prosecutions focus on materials which are patently offensive to the community,
such as those involving children, violence or beastiality.
   The experience of other cities has demonstrated that vigorous and sustained
enforcement of obscenity statutes can sharply reduce or virtually eliminate
sexually oriented businesses. Cincinnati, Omaha, Atlanta, Charlotte,
Indianapolis and Fort Lauderdale were cited to the Working Group as examples of
   -23-
cities which have successful programs of obscenity prosecution.6/ The Working
Group encourages prosecutors to take advantage of increasing training
opportunities and other assistance for obscenity prosecutions and to reassess
the desirability of increased enforcement. The Working Group is pleased to note
that county attorneys and law enforcement groups in Minnesota have recently
held forums and seminars on obscenity law enforcement and prosecution. The U.S.
Justice Department's National Obscenity Enforcement Unit offers assistance to
local prosecutors, including sample pleadings, indictments, search warrants,
motions, responses and trial memoranda.7/
RECOMMENDATIONS
1.   City and county attorneys' offices in the Twin Cities metropolitan area
should designate a prosecutor to pursue obscenity prosecutions and support that
prosecutor with specialized training.
2.   The Legislature should consider funding a pilot program to demonstrate the
efficacy of obscenity prosecution and should encourage the pooling of resources
between urban and suburban prosecuting offices by making such cooperation a
condition of receiving any such grant funds.
__________________________________
6/   Memorandum to Jim Befus, executive assistant to St. Paul Mayor George
Latimer (prepared by St. Paul Department of Planning and Economic Development)
(July 5, 1988); see also Waters, “The Squeeze on Sleaze,” Newsweek, Feb. 1,
1988, at 45 (“After more than 10 years of levying heavy fines and making
arrests, Atlanta has won national renown as 'the city that cleaned up
pornography.'”).
7/   The Address of the National Obscenity Enforcement Unit is U.S. Justice
Department, 10th & Pennsylvania Ave. N.W., Room 2216, Washington, D.C. 20530.
Its telephone number is 202-633-5780. Assistance is also available from
Citizens for Decency through Law, Inc., 2845 E. Camelback Rd., Suite 740,
Phoenix, AZ 85016. It is the publisher of “The Preparation and Trial of an
Obscenity Case: A Guide for the Prosecuting Attorney.” Its telephone number is
602-381-1322. The National Obscenity Law Center, another private organization,
is located at 475 Riverside Drive, Suite 236, New York, N.Y. 10115. It
publishes an Obscenity Law Bulletin and the “Handbook on the Prosecution of
Obscenity Cases.” Its telephone number is 212-870-3216.
   -24-
3.   The Attorney General should provide Informational resources for city and
county attorneys who prosecute obscenity crimes.
4.   Obscenity prosecutions should concentrate on cases that most flagrantly
offend community standards.
II. OTHER LEGAL REMEDIES
A.   RICO/FORFEITURE
   In addition to traditional criminal prosecutions, use of RICO statutes and
criminal and civil forfeiture actions may also prove to be successful against
obscenity offenders. By attacking the criminal organization and the profits of
illegal activity, such actions can provide a strong disincentive to the
establishment and operation of sexually oriented businesses. For example, the
federal government and a number of the twenty-eight states which have enacted
racketeer influenced and corrupt organization (RICO) statutes include obscenity
offenses as predicate crimes. Generally speaking, to violate a RICO statute, a
person must acquire or maintain an interest in or control of an enterprise, or
must conduct the affairs of an enterprise through a “pattern of criminal
activity.” That pattern of criminal activity may include obscenity violations,
which in turn can expose violators to increased fines and penalties as well as
forfeiture of all property acquired or used in the course of a RICO violation.
These statutes generally enable prosecutors to obtain either criminal or civil
forfeiture orders to seize assets and may also be used to obtain injunctive
relief to divest repeat offenders of financial interests in sexually oriented
businesses. See 18 U.S.C. §§ 1961-68 (West Supp. 1988). RICO statutes may be
particularly effective in dismantling businesses dominated by organized crime,
but they may be applied against other targets as well.
   The Working Group believes that Minnesota should enact a RICO-like statute
that would encompass increased penalties for using a “pattern” of criminal
obscenity acts to conduct the affairs of a business entity. Provisions
authorizing the seizure of assets for obscenity violations should be
considered, but the limitations imposed by the First Amendment must be taken
into account.
   -25-
   It has been argued that a RICO or forfeiture statute based on obscenity
crime violations threatens to “chill protected speech” because it would permit
prosecutors to seize non-obscene materials from distributors convicted of
violating the obscenity statute. American Civil Liberties Union, Polluting The
Censorship Debate: A Summary And Critique Of The Final Report Of The Attorney
General's Commission On Pornography at 116-117 (1986).
   However, a narrow majority of the United States Supreme Court recently held
that there is no constitutional bar to a state's inclusion of substantive
obscenity violations among the predicate offenses for its RICO statute.
Sappenfield v. Indiana, 57 U.S.L.W. 4180, 4183-4184 (February 21, 1989). The
Court recognized that “any form of criminal obscenity statute applicable to a
bookseller will induce some tendency to self-censorship and have some
inhibitory effect on the dissemination of material not obscene.” Id. at 4184.
But the Court ruled that; “the mere assertion of some possible self-censorship
resulting from a statute is not enough to render an anti-obscenity law
unconstitutional under our precedent.” Id. The Court specifically upheld RICO
provisions which increase penalties where there is a pattern of multiple
violations of obscenity laws.
   However, in a companion case, the Court also invalidated a pretrial seizure
of a bookstore and its contents after only a preliminary finding of “probable
cause” to believe that a RICO violation had occurred. Fort Wayne Books, Inc. v.
Indiana, 57 U.S.L.W. 4180, 4184-4185 (February 21, 1989). The Court explained
there is a rebuttable presumption that expressive materials are protected by
the First Amendment. That presumption is not rebutted until the claimed
justification for seizure of materials, the elements of a RICO violation, are
proved in an adversary proceeding. Id. at 4185.
   The Court did not specifically reach the fundamental question of whether
seizure of the assets of a sexually oriented business such as a bookstore is
constitutionally permissible once a RICO violation is proved. The Court
explained:
[F]or the purposes of disposing of this case, we assume without deciding that
bookstores and their contents are forfeitable (like other property such as a
bank account or yacht) when it is
   -26-
proved that these items are property actually used in, or derived from, a
pattern of violations of the state's obscenity laws.
Id. at 4185. The Working Group believes that a RICO statute which provided for
seizure of the contents of a sexually oriented business upon proof of RICO
violations would have the potential to significantly curtail the distribution
of obscene materials.
   Although Minnesota does not have a RICO statute, it does have a forfeiture
statute permitting the seizure of money and property which are the proceeds of
designated felony offenses. Minn. Stat. §
609.5312 (1988). But, this statute does not permit seizure of property related
to commission of the offenses most likely to be associated with sexually
oriented businesses. Obscenity crimes are not among the offenses which justify
forfeiture. Although solicitation or inducement of a person under age 13 (Minn.
Stat. § 609.322, subd. 1) or between the ages of 16 and 18 to practice
prostitution (Minn. Stat. § 609.322, subd. 2) are included among the offenses
which could justify seizure of property, many crimes involving prostitution are
outside the reach of the present Minnesota forfeiture law.
   The following crimes are not included among the crimes which can justify
seizure of property and profits: solicitation, inducement, or promotion of a
person between the ages of 13 and 16 to practice prostitution (Minn. Stat. §
609.322, subd. 1A); solicitation, inducement or promotion of a person 18 years
of age or older to practice prostitution (Minn. Stat. § 609.322, subd. 3);
receiving profit derived from prostitution (Minn. Stat. § 609.323); owning,
operating or managing a “disorderly house,” in which conduct habitually occurs
in violation of laws pertaining to liquor, gambling, controlled substances or
prostitution (Minn. Stat. § 609.33).
   Although its reach would be much more limited, the legislature should also
consider providing for forfeiture of property used to commit an obscenity
offense or which represents the proceeds of obscenity offenses. Under the
holding in Fort Wayne, Books, Inc. v. Indiana, such forfeiture could not take
place, if at all, until it was proved that the underlying obscenity crimes had
been committed.
   -27-
   There are no comparable constitutional issues raised by enacting or
enforcement of forfeiture statutes based on violations of prostitution,
gambling, or liquor laws. The legislature may require sexually oriented
businesses which violate these laws to forfeit their profits. The Working Group
believes that such an expansion of forfeiture laws would give prosecutors
greater leverage to control the operation of those businesses which pose the
greatest danger to the community.
RECOMMENDATIONS
1.   The legislature should amend the present forfeiture statute to include as
grounds for forfeiture all felonies and gross misdemeanors pertaining to
solicitation, inducement, promotion or receiving profit from prostitution and
operation of a “disorderly house.”
2.   The legislature should consider the potential for a RICO-like statute with
an obscenity predicate.
B.   NUISANCE INJUNCTIONS
   Minnesota law enforcement authorities may obtain an injunction and close
down operations when a facility constitutes a public nuisance. A public
nuisance exists when a business repeatedly violates laws pertaining to
prostitution, gambling or keeping a “disorderly house.” The Minnesota public
nuisance law permits a court to order a building to be closed for one year.
Minn. Stat. §§
617.80-.87 (1988).
   Nuisance injunctions to close down sexually oriented businesses which
repeatedly violate laws pertaining to prosecution, gambling or disorderly
conduct are potentially powerful regulatory devices. The fact that a building
in which prosecution or other offenses occur houses a sexually oriented
business does not shield the facility from application of nuisance law based on
such offenses. Arcara v. Cloud Books, Inc., 478 U.S. 697, 106 S. Ct. 3172
(1966) (First Amendment does not shield adult bookstore from application of New
York State nuisance law designed in part to close places of prostitution).
   -28-
   Although the Working Group believes that nuisance injunctions with an
obscenity predicate would be effective in controlling sexually oriented
businesses, such provisions would probably be unconstitutional under current
U.S. Supreme Court decisions. Six Supreme Court justices joined in the Arcara
result, but two of them --Justices O'Connor and Stevens -- concurred with these
words of caution:
   If, however, a city were to use a nuisance statute as a pretext for closing
down a book store because it sold indecent books or because of the perceived
secondary effects of having a purveyor of such books in the neighborhood, the
case would clearly implicate First Amendment concerns and require analysis
under the appropriate First Amendment standard of review. Because there is no
suggestion in the record or opinion below of such pretextual use of the New
York nuisance provision in this case, I concur in the Court's opinion and
judgment.
Arcara, supra, 478 U.S. at 708, 106 S. Ct. at 3178.
   In an earlier case, Vance v. Universal Amusement, 445 U.S. 308, 100 S. Ct.
1156 (1980), the Court ruled unconstitutional a Texas public nuisance statute
authorizing the closing of a building for a year if the building is used
“habitual[ly]” for the “commercial exhibition of obscene material.” Id. at 310
n.2, 100 S. Ct. at 1158 n.2.
   The Court's recent holdings in Sappenfield and Fort Wayne Books, Inc. give
no indication that the Court would now look more favorably upon an injunction
to close down a facility which sold obscene materials. The Court assumed
without deciding that forfeiture of bookstore assets could be constitutional in
a RICO case. But, in making this assumption, the Court distinguished forfeiture
of assets under RICO from a general restraint on presumptively protected
speech. The court approved the reasoning of the Indiana Supreme Court that,
“The remedy of forfeiture is intended hot to restrain the future distribution
of presumptively protected speech but rather to disgorge assets acquired
through racketeering activity.” Fort Wayne Books, Inc. at 4185. The Court
assumed that RICO provisions could be upheld on the basis that “adding
obscenity-law violations to the list of RICO predicate crimes was not a mere
ruse to sidestep the First Amendment.” Id. Without the relationship to proceeds
of crime, a remedy which closed a facility for obscenity violations would be
far less likely to withstand constitutional scrutiny.
   -29-
RECOMMENDATIONS
1.   Prosecutors should use the public nuisance statute to enjoin operations of
sexually oriented businesses which repeatedly violate laws pertaining to
prostitution, gambling or operating a disorderly house.
III.   ZONING
   Zoning ordinances can be adopted to regulate the location of sexually
oriented businesses without violating the First Amendment. Such ordinances can
be designed to disperse or concentrate sexually oriented businesses, to keep
them at designated distances from specific buildings or areas, such as
churches, schools and residential neighborhoods or to restrict buildings to a
single sexually oriented usage. Because zoning is an important regulatory tool
when properly enacted, the Working Group believes a careful explanation of the
law and a review of potential problems in drafting zoning ordinances may be
helpful to communities considering zoning to regulate sexually oriented
businesses.
   A.   Supreme Court Decisions
   The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the validity of municipal adult entertainment
zoning regulations in Young v. American Mini Theaters, Inc., 427 U.S. 50, 96
S.Ct. 2440 (1976), and City of Renton v. Playtime Theaters Inc., 475 U.S. 41,
106 S.Ct. 926 (1986).8/
   In Young, the Court upheld the validity of Detroit ordinances prohibiting
the operation of theaters showing sexually explicit “adult movies” within 1,000
feet of any two other adult establishments.9/ The ordinances authorized a
waiver of the 1,000-foot restriction if a proposed use would not be contrary to
the public interest and/or other factors were satisfied. Young, supra, 427 U.S.
at 54 n.7, 96 S.Ct. at 2444 n.7. The ordinances were supported by urban
planners and real estate experts who testified that concentration of adult-type
establishments “tends to attract an undesirable quantity and quality of
transients, adversely affects property values, causes an increase in crime,
especially prostitution, and encourages residents and businesses to move
elsewhere.” Id. at 55, 96 S.Ct. at 2445. A “myriad” of locations were left
available for adult establishments outside the forbidden 1,000-foot distance
zone, and no existing establishments were affected. Id. at 71 n.35, 96 S.Ct. at
2453 n.35.
   -30-
   Writing for a plurality of four, Justice Stevens upheld the zoning ordinance
as a reasonable regulation of the place where adult films may be shown because
(1) there was a factual basis for the city's conclusion that the ordinance
would prevent blight; (2) the ordinance was directed at preventing “secondary
effects” of adult-establishment concentration rather than protecting citizens
from unwanted “offensive” speech; (3) the ordinance did not greatly restrict
access to lawful speech; and (4) “the city must be allowed a reasonable
opportunity to experiment with solutions to admittedly serious problems.” Id.
at 63 n.18, 71 nn.34, 35, 96 S.Ct. at 2448-49 n.18, 2452-53 nn.34, 35.
___________________________________
8/   The only reported Minnesota court case reviewing an adult entertainment
zoning ordinance is City of St. Paul v. Carlone, 419 N.W.2d 129 (Minn. Ct. App.
1988) (upholding facial constitutionality of St. Paul ordinance).
9/   The ordinances also prohibited the location of an adult theaters within
500 feet of a residential area, but this provision was invalidated by the
district court, and that decision was not appealed. Young v. American Mini
Theaters, Inc., 427 U.S. 50, 52 n.2, 96 S.Ct. 2440, 2444 n.2 (1976).
   Justice Stevens did not expressly describe the standard he had used, but it
was clear that the plurality would afford non-obscene sexually explicit speech
lesser First Amendment protection than other categories of speech. However,
four dissenters and one concurring justice concluded that the degree of
protection afforded speech by the First Amendment does not vary with the social
value ascribed to that speech. In his concurring opinion, Justice Powell stated
that the four-part test of United States v. O'Brien, 391 U.S. 367, 377, 88
S.Ct. 1673, 1679 (1968), should apply. Powell explained:
Under that test, a governmental regulation is sufficiently justified, despite
its incidental impact upon First Amendment interests, “if it is within the
constitutional power of the Government; if it furthers an important or
substantial governmental interest; if the governmental interest is unrelated to
the suppression of free expression; and if the incidental restriction on ...
First Amendment freedom is no greater than is essential to the furtherance of
that interest.”
427 U.S. at 79-80, 96 S.Ct. at 2457 (citation omitted), (Powell, J.,
concurring).
   -31-
   Perhaps because Justice Stevens' plurality opinion did not offer a clearly
articulated standard of review, post-Young courts often applied the O'Brien
test advocated by Justice Powell in his concurring opinion. Many ordinances
regulating sexually oriented businesses were invalidated under the O'Brien
test. See R.M. Stein, Regulation of Adult Businesses Through Zoning After
Renton, 18 Pac. L.J. 351, 360 (1987) (“consistently invalidated”); S.A. Bender,
Regulating Pornography Through, Zoning: Can We 'Clean Up' Honolulu? 8 U. Haw.
L. Rev. 75, 105 (1986) (ordinances upheld in only about half the cases).
   Applying Young, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals invalidated a zoning
ordinance adopted by the city of Minneapolis. Alexander v. City of Minneapolis,
698 F.2d 936 (8th Cir. 1983). In Alexander, the challenged ordinance had three
major restrictions on sexually oriented businesses: distancing from specified
uses, prevention of concentration and amortization. It prohibited a sexually
oriented business from operating within 500 feet of districts zoned for
residential or office-residences, a church,state-licensed day care facility and
certain public schools. It forbade an adults-only facility from operating
within 500 feet of any other adults-only facility. Finally, the ordinance
required existing sexually oriented entertainment establishments to conform to
its provisions by moving to a new location, if necessary, within four years.
   The Eighth Circuit ruled that the Minneapolis ordinance created restrictions
too severe to be upheld under the Young decision. It would have required all
five of the city's sexually oriented theaters and between seven and nine of the
city's ten sexually oriented bookstores to relocate and would have required
these facilities to compete with another 18 adult-type establishments (saunas,
massage parlors and “rap” parlors) for a maximum of 12 relocation sites. The
effective result of enforcing the ordinance would be a substantial reduction in
the number of adult bookstores and theaters, and no new adult bookstores or
theaters would be able to open, the Court concluded. Alexander, supra, 698 F.2d
at 938.
   In Renton, supra, the United States Supreme Court adopted a clearer standard
under which regulation of sexually oriented businesses could be tested and
upheld. The Court upheld an ordinance prohibiting adult movie theaters from
locating within 1,000 feet of any residential zone, single- or multiple-family
dwelling, church, park or school.
   -32-
   Justice Rehnquist, writing for a Court majority that included Justices
Stevens and Powell, stated that the Renton ordinance did not ban adult theaters
altogether and that, therefore, it was “properly analyzed as a form of time,
place and manner regulation.” Id. at 46, 106 S.Ct. at 928. When time, place and
manner regulations are “content-neutral” and not enacted “for the purpose of
restricting speech on the basis of its content,” they are “acceptable so long
as they are designed to serve a substantial governmental interest and do not
unreasonably limit alternative avenues of communication,” Rehnquist stated. Id.
He found the Renton ordinance to be content-neutral because it was not aimed at
the content of films shown at adult theaters. Rather, the city's “predominate
concerns” were with the secondary effects of the theaters. Id. at 47, 106 S.Ct.
at 929 (emphasis in original). Once a time, place or manner regulation is
determined to be content-neutral, “[t]he appropriate inquiry ... is whether the
... ordinance is designed to serve a substantial governmental interest and
allows for reasonable avenues of communication,” Rehnquist wrote for the Court.
Id. at 50, 106 S.Ct. at 930.
   The Supreme Court found that Renton's “interest in preserving the quality of
urban life” is a “vital” governmental interest. The substantiality of that
interest was in no way diminished by the fact that Renton “relied heavily” on
studies of the secondary effects of adult entertainment establishments by
Seattle and the experiences of other cities, Rehnquist added. Id. at 51, 106
S.Ct. at 930-31.
   The First Amendment does not require a city, before enacting such an
ordinance, to conduct new studies or produce evidence independent of that
already generated by other cities, so long as whatever evidence the city relies
upon is reasonably believed to be relevant to the problem that the city
addresses. That was the case here. Nor is our holding affected by the fact that
Seattle ultimately chose a different method of adult theater zoning than that
chosen by Renton, since Seattle's choice of a different remedy to combat the
secondary effects of adult theaters does not call into question either
Seattle's identification of those secondary effects or the relevance of
Seattle's experience to Renton.
Id. at 51-52, 106 S.Ct. at 931.
   Rehnquist's inquiry then addressed the means chosen to further Renton's
substantial interest and inquired into whether the Renton ordinance was
sufficiently “narrowly tailored.”
   -33-
   His comments on Renton's means to further its substantial interest suggest
that municipalities have a wide latitude in enacting content-neutral ordinances
aimed at the secondary effects of adult-entertainment establishments. He quoted
the Young plurality for the proposition that:
It is not our function to appraise the wisdom of [the city's] decision to
require adult theaters to be separated rather than concentrated in the same
areas ... [T]he city must be allowed a reasonable opportunity to experiment
with solutions to admittedly serious problems.
Id. at 52, 106 S.Ct. at 931 (quoting Young, supra, 427 U.S. at 71, 96 S.Ct. at
2453).
   As to the “narrowly tailored” requirement, Rehnquist found that the Renton
ordinance only affected theaters producing unwanted secondary effects and,
therefore, was satisfactory. Id.
   The second prong of Renton's “time, place, manner” inquiry -- the
availability of alternative avenues of communication -- was satisfied by the
district court's finding that 520 acres of land, or more than five percent of
Renton, were left available for adult-entertainment uses, even though some of
that developed area was already occupied and the undeveloped land was not
available for sale or lease. A majority of the Court found:
That [adult theater owners] must fend for themselves in the real estate market,
on an equal footing with other prospective purchasers and lessees, does not
give rise to a First Amendment violation.... In our view, the First Amendment
requires only that Renton refrain from effectively denying [adult theater
owners] a reasonable opportunity to open and operate an adult theater within
the city, and the ordinance before us easily meets this requirement.
Id. at 54, 106 S.Ct. at 932.
   -34-
   B.   Standards and Need for Legal Zoning
   Unlike Young, the Renton case spells out the standards by which zoning of
sexually oriented businesses should be tested. Renton and several lower court
decisions rendered in its wake suggest that the two most critical areas by
which the ordinances will be judged are 1) whether there is evidence that
ordinances were enacted to address secondary impacts on the community, and 2)
whether there are enough locations still available for sexually oriented
businesses so that zoning is not just a pretext to eliminate pornographic
speech.10/
______________________________________
10/   Of 11 recent post-Renton adult-entertainment zoning decisions by federal
courts, five invalidated ordinances, three upheld ordinances and three ordered
a remand to district court for further proceedings. Zoning ordinances were
struck in Avalon Cinema Corp. v. Thompson, 667 F.2d 659 (6th Cir. 1967) ( city
council failed to offer evidence suggesting neighborhood decline would
result); Tollis, Inc. v. San Bernadino County, 827 F.2d 1329 (9th Cir. 1987)
(no evidence presented to legislative body of secondary harmful effects); Ebel
v. Corona, 767 F.2d 635 (9th Cir. 1985) (lack of effective alternative
locations); 11126 Baltimore Boulevard, Inc. v. Prince George's County of
Maryland, 684 F. Supp. 884 (D. Md. 1988) (insufficient evidence of secondary
effects presented to legislative body; special exception provisions grant
excessive discretionary authority to zoning officials); and Peoples Tags, Inc.
v. Jackson County Legislature, 636 F. Supp. 1345 (W.D. Mo. 1986) (improper
legislative purpose to prevent continued operation of adult- entertainment
establishment). Zoning ordinances were upheld in SDJ, Inc. v. City of Houston,
837 F.2d 1268 (5th Cir. 1988); FW/PBS, Inc. v. City of Dallas, 837 F.2d 1298
(5th Cir. 1988); and S & G News, Inc. v. City of Southgate, 638 F.Supp. 1060
(E.D. Mich. 1986), aff'd without published opinion, 819 F.2d 1142 (6th Cir.
1987). Remands were ordered in Christy v. City of Ann Arbor, 824 F.2d 489 (6th
Cir. 1987), cert. denied, _____ U.S. _____, 109 S.Ct 1013 (1988), (remand for
determination of excessive restrictions); International Food & Beverage Systems
v. City of Fort Lauderdale, 794 F.2d 1520 (11th Cir. 1986) (remand for
reconsideration in light of Renton, supra; nude bar ordinance), and Walnut
Properties, Inc. v. City of Whittier, 808 F.2d 1331 (9th Cir. 1986) (remand, in
part, for determination of land availability).
   -35-
   This section first describes some of the legal considerations which
communities must keep in mind in drafting zoning ordinances-for sexually
oriented businesses. Then, some suggestions are provided, based on evidence
reviewed by the Working Group, of types of zoning which can be enacted to
reduce the secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses.
1.   Documentation to Support Zoning Ordinances,
   Sexually oriented speech which is not obscene cannot be restricted on the
basis of its content without running afoul of the First Amendment. The
justification for regulating sexually oriented businesses is based on proof
that the zoning is needed to reduce secondary effects of the businesses on the
community.
   Since Renton, a number of adult entertainment zoning ordinances have been
invalidated for failure of the enacting body to document the need for zoning
regulations. Thus, one court invalidated a zoning ordinance because there was
“very little, if any, evidence of the secondary effects of adult bookstores ...
before the City Council ....” 11126 Baltimore Boulevard, supra, 684 F. Supp. at
895; see also Tollis v. San Bernadino County, 827 F.2d 1329, 1333 (9th Cir.
1987) (ordinance construed to prohibit single showing of adult movie in zoned
area; invalidated for failure to present evidence of secondary effects of
single showing); but see Thames Enterprises v. City of St. Louis, 851 F.2d 199,
201-02 (8th Cir. 1988) (observations by legislator of secondary effects
sufficient).
   On the other hand, it is not necessary for each municipality to conduct
research independent of that already generated by other cities. The Renton
court held that evidence of the need for zoning of sexually oriented businesses
can be provided by studies from other cities “so long as whatever evidence the
city relies upon is reasonably believed to be relevant to the problem that the
city addresses.” Id. at 51, 106 S.Ct. at 931. See also SDJ, Inc. v. City of
Houston, 837 F.2d 1268, 1274 (5th Cir. 1988) (public testimony from experts,
supporters and opponents and consideration of studies by Detroit, Boston,
Dallas and Los Angeles sufficient evidence of legitimate purpose).
   -36-
   The first section of this report summarizes evidence from various cities
documenting the secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses. Following
Renton, it is intended that local communities will make use of this evidence in
the course of assembling support for reasonable regulation of sexually oriented
businesses.
2.   Availability of Locations for Sexually Oriented Businesses
   Courts also evaluate whether zoning of sexually oriented businesses is
merely a pretext for prohibition by reviewing the alternative locations which
remain for a sexually oriented business to operate under the zoning scheme. A
municipality must “refrain from effectively denying ... a reasonable
opportunity to open and operate” a sexually oriented business. Renton, supra,
475 U.S. at 54, 106 S.Ct. at 932.
   Access may be regarded as unduly restricted if adult entertainment zones are
unreasonably small in area or if the number of locations is unreasonably few.
There is no set amount of land or number of locations constitutionally
required. The Renton court found that 520 acres of “accessible real estate,”
including land “criss-crossed by freeways” -- more than five percent of the
entire land area in Renton -- was sufficient. 475 U.S. at 53, 106 S.Ct. at 932.
The Young court found the availability of “myriad” locations sufficient. 427
U.S. at 72 n.35, 96 S.Ct. at 2453 n.35.
   Whether .058 square miles constituting .23 of 1 percent of the land area
within the city's central business zone is sufficient is not clear. See
Alexander v. The City of Minneapolis (Alexander II), No. 3-88-808, slip op. at
22 (D. Minn. May 22, 1989). (less than 1 % of land area could be valid if
“ample actual opportunities” for relocation exist); Christy v. City of Ann
Arbor, 824 F.2d 489, 490, 493 (6th Cir. 1987) (remanding for a determination of
excessive restriction). See also 11126 Baltimore Boulevard, Inc. v. Prince
George's County of Maryland, 684 F. Supp. 884 (D. Md. 1988) (20 alternative
locations sufficient); Alexander v. City of Minneapolis, 698 F.2d 936, 939 n.7
(8th Cir. 1983) (pre-Renton; 12 relocation sites for at least 28 existing adult
establishments not sufficient).
   -37-
   The sufficiency of sites available for adult entertainment uses may be
measured in relation to a number of factors. See, e.g., Alexander II, supra,
slip op. at 22-23 (insufficient if relocation site owners refuse to sell or
lease); International Food & Beverage Systems, Inc., 794 F.2d 1520, 1526 (11th
Cir. 1986) (suggesting number of sites should be determined by reference to
community needs, incidence of establishments in other cities, goals of city
plan); Basiardanes v. City of Galveston, 682 F.2d 1203, 1209 (5th Cir. 1962)
(pre-Renton case striking zoning regulation restricting adult theaters to
industrial areas that were “largely a patchwork of swamps, warehouses, and
railroad tracks . . . . lack[ing] access roads and retail establishments”).
   However, the fact that land zoned for adult establishments is already
occupied or not currently for sale or lease will not invalidate a zoning
ordinance. Renton, supra, 475 U.S. at 53-54, 106 S.Ct. at 932; but see,
Alexander II, supra, slip op. at 22-23 (reasonable relocation opportunity
absent where owners refuse to sell or rent). There is no requirement that it be
economically advantageous for a sexually oriented business to locate in the
areas permitted by law.
3.   Distance Requirements
   Another factor that may be examined by some courts is the distance
requirement established by an adult entertainment zoning ordinance. In SDJ,
Inc. v. Houston, 837 F.2d 1268 (5th Cir. 1988), the Court was asked to
invalidate a 750-foot distancing requirement on the ground that the city had
not proved that 750 feet, as opposed to some other distance, was necessary to
serve the city's interest.
   The Court found that an adult entertainment zoning ordinance is
“sufficiently well tailored if it effectively promotes the government's stated
interest” and declined to “second-guess” the city council. Houston, supra, 837
F.2d at 1276.
   -38-
   Courts have sustained both requirements that sexually oriented businesses be
located at specified distances from each other, see Young, supra, (upholding
distance requirement of 1000 feet between sexually oriented businesses), and
requirements that sexually oriented businesses be located at fixed distances
from other sensitive uses, see Renton, supra, (upholding distance requirement
of 1000 feet between sexually oriented businesses and residential zones,
single-or-multiple-family dwellings, churches, parks or schools).
   The Working Group heard testimony that when an ordinance establishes
distances between sexually oriented uses, an additional regulation may be
needed to prevent operators of these businesses to defeat the intent of the
regulation by concentrating sexually oriented businesses of various types under
one roof, as in a sexually oriented mini-mall. The city of St. Paul has adopted
an ordinance preventing more than one adult use (e.g., sexually oriented
theater, bookstore, massage parlor) from locating within a single building. A
similar ordinance was upheld in the North Carolina case of Hart Book Stores,
Inc. v. Edmisten, 612 F.2d 821 (4th Cir. 1979), cert. denied, 447 U.S. 929
(1980).
   The experience with multiple-use sexually oriented businesses at the
University-Dale intersection suggests that these businesses have a greater
potential for causing neighborhood problems than do single-use sexually
oriented businesses. Following Renton, it is suggested that lawmakers document
the adverse effects which the community seeks to prevent by prohibiting
multiple-use businesses before enacting this type of ordinance.
4.   Requiring Existing Businesses to Comply with New Zoning
   Zoning ordinances can require existing sexually oriented businesses to close
their operations provided they do not foreclose the operation of such
businesses in new locations. Under such provisions, an existing business is
allowed to remain at its present location, even though it is a non-conforming
use, for a limited period.
   -39-
   The Minnesota Supreme Court has explained the theory this way:
   The theory behind this legislative device is that the useful life of the
nonconforming use corresponds roughly to the amortization period, so that the
owner is not deprived of his property until the end of its useful life. In
addition, the monopoly position granted during the amortization period
theoretically provides the owner with compensation for the loss of some
property interest, since the period specified rarely corresponds precisely to
the useful life of any particular structure constituting the nonconforming use.
Naegele Outdoor Advertising Co. v. Village of Minnetonka, 162 N.W.2d 206, 213
(Minn. 1968).
   Such provisions applied to sexually oriented businesses have been said to be
“uniformly upheld.” Dumas v. City of Dallas, 648 F. Supp. 1061, 1071 (N.D. Tex.
1986), aff'd, FW/PBS, Inc. v. City of Dallas, 837 F.2d 1298 (5th Cir. 1988)
(citing cases).
   As detailed in the first section of this report (pp. 6-15), there are
significant secondary impacts upon communities related to the location of
sexually oriented businesses. These impacts are intensified when sexually
oriented businesses are located in residential areas or near other sensitive
uses and when sexually oriented businesses are concentrated near each other or
near alcohol oriented businesses. The Working Group believes that evidence from
studies such as those described in the first section of this report and
anecdotal evidence from neighborhood residents and police officers should be
used to support the need for zoning ordinances which address these problems.
RECOMMENDATIONS
1.   Communities should document findings of adverse secondary effects of
sexually oriented businesses prior to enacting zoning regulations to control
these uses so that such regulations can be upheld if challenged in court.
2.   To reduce the adverse effects of sexually oriented businesses, communities
should adopt zoning regulations to set distance requirements between sexually
oriented businesses and sensitive uses, including but not limited to
residential areas, schools, child care facilities, churches and parks.
   -40-
3.   To reduce adverse impacts from concentration of sexually oriented
businesses, communities should adopt zoning ordinances which set distance
requirements between liquor establishments and sexually oriented businesses and
between sexually oriented businesses and should consider restricting sexually
oriented businesses to one use per building.
4.   Communities should require existing businesses to comply with new zoning
or other regulation pertaining to sexually oriented businesses within a
reasonable time so that prior uses will conform to new laws.
IV.   LICENSING AND OTHER REGULATIONS
   Licensing and other regulations may also be used to reduce the adverse
effects of sexually oriented businesses. The critical requirements which
communities must keep in mind are that regulations must be narrowly crafted to
address adverse secondary effects, they must be reasonably related to reduction
of these effects and they must be capable of objective application. If these
standards can be met, licensing and other regulatory provisions may play an
important role in preventing unwanted exposure to sexually oriented materials
and in reducing the crime problems associated with sexually oriented
businesses.
   It is clear that failure to act upon a license application for a sexually
oriented business cannot take the place of regulation. Without justification,
denial or failure to grant a license is a prior restraint in violation of the
First Amendment. Parkway Theater Corporation v. City of Minneapolis, No.
716787, slip. op. (Henn. Co. Dist. Ct., Sept. 24, 1975).
   An ordinance providing for license revocation of an adult motion picture
theater if the licensee is convicted of an obscenity offense is also likely to
be held unconstitutional as a prior restraint of free speech. Alexander v. City
of St. Paul, 227 N.W.2d 370 (Minn. 1975). The Alexander court stated:
   [W]hen the city licenses a motion picture theater, it is licensing an
activity protected by the First Amendment, and as a result the power of the
city is more limited than when the city licenses activities which do not have
First Amendment protection, such as the business of selling liquor or running a
massage parlor.
   -41-
Id. at 373 (footnote omitted); see also, Cohen v. City of Daleville, 695 F.
Supp. 1168, 1171 (M.D. Ala. 1988) (past sale of obscene material cannot justify
revocation of license).
   However, the courts have permitted communities to deny licenses to sexually
oriented businesses if the person seeking a license has been convicted of other
crimes which are closely related to the operation of sexually oriented
businesses.
   In Dumas v. City of Dallas, supra, the court reviewed a requirement that a
license applicant not have been convicted of certain crimes within a specified
period. Five of the enumerated crimes were held to be not sufficiently related
to the purpose of the adult entertainment licensing ordinance because the city
had made no findings on their justification. The invalid enumerated offenses
were controlled substances act violations, bribery, robbery, kidnapping and
organized criminal activity. The court upheld requirements that the licensee
not have been convicted of prostitution and sex related offenses. Id. at 1074.
if a community seeks to require that persons with a history of other crimes be
denied licenses, clear findings must first be made which justify denial of
licenses on that basis.
   The Dumas court also invalidated portions of the licensing ordinance
permitting the police chief to deny a license if he finds that the applicant
“is unable to operate or manage a sexually oriented business premises in a
peaceful and law-abiding manner” or is not “presently fit to operate a sexually
oriented business.” Neither provision satisfied the constitutional requirement
that “any license requirement for an activity related to expression must
contain narrow, objective, and definite standards to guide the licensing
authority.” Id. at 1072. See also Alexander II, supra, slip op. at 16
(unconstitutionally vague to define regulated bookstores as those selling
“substantial or significant portion” of certain publications); 11126 Baltimore
Boulevard, supra, 684 F. Supp. at 898-99 (striking ordinance allowing zoning
officials to deny permit if adult entertainment establishment is not “in
harmony” with zoning plan, does not “substantially impair” master plan, does
not “adversely affect” health, safety and welfare and is not “detrimental” to
neighborhood because such standards are “subject to possible manipulation and
arbitrary application”).
   A number of courts have upheld ordinances requiring that viewing booths in
adult theaters be open to discourage illegal and unsanitary sexual activity.
See, e.g., Doe v. City of Minneapolis, 693 F. Supp. 774 (D. Minn. 1988).
   -42-
   Licensing provisions and ordinances forbidding massage parlors employees
from administering massages to persons of the opposite sex have withstood equal
protection and privacy and associational right challenges. See Clampitt v. City
of Ft. Wayne, 682 F. Supp. 401, 407-408 (N.D. Ind. 1988) (equal protection);
Wigginess, Inc. v. Fruchtman, 482 F. Supp. 681, 689-90 (S.D. N.Y. 1979), aff'd,
628 F.2d 1346 (2d Cir. 1980), cert. denied, 449 U.S. 842, 101 S.Ct. 122.
However, some courts have found same-sex massage regulations to be in violation
of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. See Stratton v. Drumm, 445 F.
Supp. 1305, 1310-11 (D. Conn. 1978); Cianciolo v. Members of City Council, 376
F. Supp. 719, 722-24 (E.D. Tenn. 1974); Joseph v. House, 353 F. Supp. 367, 374-
75 (E.D. Va.), aff'd sub nom. Joseph v. Blair, 482 D.2d 575 (4th Cir.), cert.
denied, 416 U.S. 955, 94 S.Ct. 1968 (1974). Contra, Aldred v. Dulin, 538 F.2d
637 (4th Cir. 1976).
   Although the Working Group expressed strong concern about the operation of
prostitution under the guise of massage parlors, this type of regulation is not
advisable because legitimate therapeutic massage establishments could find
their operations curtailed. Prostitution may be better controlled through
prosecution and use of post-conviction actions such as forfeiture or enjoining
a public nuisance.
   In 1985, a court upheld an ordinance making it unlawful to display for
commercial purposes material “harmful to minors” unless the material is in a
sealed wrapper and, if the cover is harmful to minors, has an opaque cover.
Upper Midwest Booksellers Ass'n v. City of Minneapolis, 780 F.2d 1389 (8th Cir.
1985). Last year, the legislature enacted a state law similarly prohibiting
display of sexually explicit material which is harmful to minors unless items
are kept in sealed wrappers and, where the cover itself would be harmful to
minors, within opaque covers. Minn. Stat. §
617.293 (1988). This law has the potential to protect minors from exposure to
sexually oriented materials. Communities also have considerable discretion to
regulate signage so that the exterior of sexually oriented businesses does not
expose unwitting observers to sexually explicit messages.
RECOMMENDATIONS
1.   Prior to enacting licensing regulations, communities should document
findings of adverse secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses and the
relationship between these effects and proposed regulations so that such
regulations can be upheld if challenged in court.
   -43-
2.   Communities should adopt regulations which reduce the likelihood of
criminal activity related to sexually oriented businesses, including but not
limited to open booth ordinances and ordinances which authorize denial or
revocation of licenses when the licensee has committed offenses relevant to the
operation of the business.
3.   Communities should adopt regulations which reduce exposure of the
community and minors to the blighting appearance of sexually oriented
businesses Including but not limited to regulations of signage and exterior
design of such businesses and should enforce state law requiring sealed
wrappers and opaque covers on sexually oriented material.
   CONCLUSION
   There are many actions which communities may take within the law to protect
themselves from the adverse secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses.
Prosecution of obscenity crimes can play a vital role in decreasing the
profitability of sexually oriented businesses and removing materials which
violate community standards from local outlets. Forfeiture and injunction to
prevent public nuisance should be available where sexually oriented businesses
are the site of sex-related crimes and violations of laws pertaining to
gambling, liquor or controlled substances. These actions will remove the most
egregious establishments from communities.
   Zoning can reduce the likelihood that sexually oriented businesses will lead
to neighborhood blight. Licensing can sever the link between at least some
crime figures and sexually oriented businesses. Regulation and enforcement can
protect minors from exposure to sexually explicit materials.
   The Attorney General's Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented
Businesses believes that prosecution, seizure of profits, zoning and regulation
of sexually oriented businesses should only be done in keeping with the
constitutional requirements of the First Amendment. Rational regulation can be
fashioned to protect both our communities and our constitutional rights.
   -44-
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Damage to property; graffiti
   
130.02   Discharging firearms
   
130.03   Curfew for minors
   
130.04   Fireworks
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY; GRAFFITI.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GRAFFITI. In addition to its usual and customary meaning of defacing
walls or structures with messages or slogans, GRAFFITI shall also mean any
letter, numeral, figure, emblem, insignia, picture, outline, character,
spectacle, delineation, announcement, word, phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch,
inscription or representation, wherein the contents thereof are visible to any
member of the general public and which contains references to sexual activity,
diagrams relating to sexual activity or sexual organs, references to criminal
activities or groups which promote or are involved in criminal activity,
swearing or fighting words, defamatory materials about any person, references
to relationships, or any marking of any kind whatsoever which results in damage
to, defacing of, marring of, or discoloring of any sidewalk, street, or other
public surface, any vehicle, any equipment, lamp, lamp post or other city
property, or of the exterior surface of a wall, fence, door, building or other
structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
      OWNER. Means and includes the owner of record of the subject property,
whether public or private, at the time of the placement or discovery of the
graffiti or at a subsequent time, the beneficial owner under a land trust, the
contract purchaser, or that person or persons or trust in whose name the
general taxes for the last preceding year were paid, except that OWNER shall
not include the city.
   (B)   Conduct prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw, or otherwise place
or cause to be placed any graffiti upon the surface of any building, structure,
wall or surface of other property that is publicly or privately owned.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian to knowingly
permit any minor child in his or her custody or control to violate division (B)
(1) of this section.
      (3)   The parent or legal guardian of a minor defendant who resides with
the parent or legal guardian at the time of the offense may be held liable for
any fine or condition of restitution or reparation imposed by a court upon a
minor for violation of this section; provided, that minor has not paid the fine
or made restitution or reparation within the time ordered by the court; and
further provided that the parent or legal guardian has been served with summons
or notice to appear whether in the original cause or in any subsequent
proceedings arising therefrom, including sentencing or collection actions, as
provided by law.
   (C)   Removal by owner.
      (1)   Owner's responsibility. It shall be the duty of the owner of the
structure or wall or other private property upon which any graffiti is placed
or made to remove, eradicate, or eliminate the inscription or representation
within 30 days of the occurrence unless granted additional time by the City
Council.
      (2)   Notice to remove graffiti. In the event the owner has failed to
eliminate the graffiti, the owner shall be notified by certified mail or
personal notice that he or she has 30 days from the date of the notice in which
to remove the graffiti. In the event that charges have been filed against the
person believed responsible for placement of the graffiti and the owner can
show to the city that there is a reasonable likelihood that the person will be
required to make restitution or restore the premises to its previous condition,
the owner may be given additional time to meet the removal requirements. In no
event shall the owner be granted more than a total of six months' time to
remove graffiti, but any extensions shall be based solely upon a reasonable
likelihood of apprehension and conviction of the person responsible. In the
absence of the reasonable likelihood, the owner is responsible for removal
within the time allowed in divisions (C)(1) and (2) of this section.
      (3)   List of contractors and cleaning materials. The city may make
available a list of contractors in the business of removing graffiti and list
of cleaning materials generally recognized in the industry as effective in the
removal of graffiti. By providing lists of contractors and cleaning materials,
the city does not guarantee the quality or adequacy of work performed by anyone
selected by owner or the effectiveness or safety of the materials listed, and
the city expressly disclaims responsibility or liability for the quality or
adequacy of the work or materials or any claims for damage or injury arising
therefrom.
   (D)   Removal by the city.
      (1)   The city shall have the right but not the duty to remove graffiti
from the exterior of private property if the owner informs the city of the
presence of the graffiti and of the owner's inability to remove it. Prior to
the city entering any private property to remove graffiti, the owner must sign
a statement authorizing removal by the city and agreeing to pay the reasonable
costs of the removal and to allow the recording of a lien against the real
estate upon which the work was performed if the cost is not paid to the city
within 30 days of the date of the invoice sent to the owner. The owner must
also sign a release holding the city harmless from any claims or suits brought
for damages pursuant to any adverse or injurious effects of such chemicals or
from the actions taken by the city or its employees to remove the graffiti
prior to the city commencing work on the property. If the property owner does
not remove the graffiti within the time specified or extended time requested
and granted by the city or if the city is unable to perform the work at the
request of the owner, the owner shall be subject to the penalties listed in
division (E) of this section.
      (2)   If the city performs the graffiti removal pursuant to division (D)
(1) of this section, it shall be entitled to a lien and to file a notice of
lien against the property upon which the work was performed for the cost of the
removal.
   (E)   Penalty.
      (1)   Upon a finding of guilty for violation of division (B) of this
section, an offender shall be punished as provided in §
130.99. Additionally, the court may, as a condition of probation, supervision,
or conditional discharge, require that the party guilty of violating the
provisions of division (B) of this section make full and complete restitution
to the owner of the property for expenses incurred in the removal of the
graffiti or, with the consent of the owner, restore the structure, wall,
building or surface to its previous condition. In addition, the court may order
as a further penalty community service in the form of time to be spent in
cleaning property that has been defaced by graffiti in any location in the
city.
      (2)   Upon a finding of guilty for violation of division (C)(1) of this
section, an offender shall be punished as provided in §
130.99. Each and every day that graffiti is permitted to remain beyond the time
specified in division (C)(2) of this section shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (F)   Compliance by the city.
      (1)   It is the intention of the city that graffiti discovered upon city
property or public property under the jurisdiction and control of the city will
be removed within the time periods for graffiti removal imposed upon other
governmental bodies and owners of private property under this section. The City
Council shall have the authority to order and direct the removal of graffiti.
      (2)   A designated city officer, or his or her designee, shall provide,
no less than semi-annually, a written report to the City Council of graffiti
incidents involving city property and removal efforts by the city. The report
shall include at a minimum the location of the graffiti, charges filed against
or convictions of offenders where relevant, the date and methods of graffiti
removal undertaken by the city and the cost of the removal.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   Shooting upon, over or near a cemetery. Except as provided by M.S. §
97A.137, for wildlife management areas that are 40 contiguous acres and less
than 160 contiguous acres, no person shall, without permission from the proper
officials, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or within 100 yards
thereof, unless the person is upon his or her own land.
   (B)   Hunting near a city park. Except as provided by M.S. § 97A.137, for
wildlife management areas that are 40 contiguous acres and less than 160
contiguous acres, no person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game within ½ mile of a
city park unless the City Council has granted permission to kill game not
desired within the limits prohibited by this division.
   (C)   Discharge of firearms prohibited in certain places. No person shall
discharge a firearm on a lawn, park, playground, orchard, or other ground
appurtenant to a school, church, or an inhabited dwelling, the property of
another, or a charitable institution. This section does not prevent or prohibit
the owner thereof from discharging firearms upon his or her own land.
   (D)   Discharging firearms on highways prohibited. No person shall discharge
a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (E)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation's armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials in
the proper enforcement of the law, or to any person in the proper exercise of
the right of self defense, or to any person otherwise lawfully permitted by
proper federal, state or local authorities to discharge a firearm in a manner
contrary to the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If any of the above provisions are found to be in conflict with M.S. §
624.717, as it may be amended from time to time, the provisions of that statute
shall prevail.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor's household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor.
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor.
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor's
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor's presence at work.
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor's
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor.
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew.
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion.
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next- door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city's designated law enforcement provider about the minor's presence.
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city's designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The use, display, possession, discharge or sale of any fireworks not
expressly permitted by M.S. § 624.20, Subd. 1(b), (c), as it may be amended
from time to time, is strictly prohibited.
   (B)   All use, display or discharge of those non-explosive, non-aerial
pyrotechnic entertainment devices only containing the limited amounts of
pyrotechnic chemical compositions described in and permitted by M.S. § 624.20,
Subd. 1(b), (c), as it may be amended from time to time, hereinafter referred
to as “permitted consumer fireworks”, is strictly prohibited in:
      (1)   The area on, below, above or within or in close proximity to:
recreational areas, roadways, streets, highways, bicycle lanes, pedestrian
paths, sidewalks, rights-of-way, lakes, rivers, waterways and all other
property owned or leased by the city, the county in which the city is located,
the State of Minnesota or the federal government and located in whole or in
part within the city limits;
      (2)   Private property within the city limits that has conspicuously
posted a written sign or notice that no fireworks discharge is allowed;
      (3)   Within 300 feet of any consumer fireworks retail sales facility or
storage area that has posted a written sign or notice that no fireworks
discharge is allowed; and
      (4)   Any property, area, or structure that, by its physical condition or
the physical conditions in which it is set, would constitute a fire or personal
safety hazard.
   (C)   All other use, display or discharge of permitted consumer fireworks
must be conducted in a manner that minimizes the risk of fire or injury to
other persons or property.
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty has been established shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Curfew penalties.
      (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of §
130.03 may be adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional
alternatives set forth in M.S. § 260B.198, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of §
130.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   ZONING
      
152.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
      
153.   ANTI-BLIGHT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Minnesota Accessibility Code
   
150.02   Contractor's license required
   
150.03   Manufactured homes
   
150.04   Amateur radio support towers
   
150.05   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
150.06   Compliance with code
§ 150.01 MINNESOTA ACCESSIBILITY CODE.
   (A)   The Minnesota Accessibility Code, established pursuant to M.S. §§
326B.01 - 326B.998, as they may be amended from time to time, and as provided
for in Minn. Rules Ch. 1341, as it may be amended from time to time, is adopted
as the building code for accessibility in this city. M.S. § 326B.16 provides
that a city which has not adopted the State Building Code is nevertheless
responsible for the enforcement of the Minnesota Accessibility Code, and this
section is intended to comply with that requirement.
   (B)   No building subject to the provisions of the Minnesota Accessibility
Code shall be constructed, reconstructed or substantially altered, or undergo a
change in use within the city unless the building will comply with the
Minnesota Accessibility Code after the construction or alteration is completed
or the change in use occurs.
   (C)   Any person who constructs, reconstructs or substantially alters any
building subject to the Minnesota Accessibility Code, or changes the use of any
such building shall, before construction or alteration begins, certify to the
City Clerk that the applicable provisions of the Minnesota Accessibility Code
will be complied with.
   (D)   No person shall be issued a building, zoning or land use permit unless
they certify that any structure to be located on the property shall be
constructed or reconstructed in compliance with the handicapped accessibility
provisions, if they apply to the structure to be constructed, substantially
altered or reconstructed.
   (E)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punished as provided for
in §
10.99.
§ 150.02 CONTRACTOR'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No residential building contractor, residential remodeler, or other person
who is required to be licensed by the state under the provisions of M.S. §§
326B.805 – 326B.89, as they may be amended from time to time, and no person
employing a residential contractor, who is required to be licensed, shall be
issued a building, zoning or land use permit unless that contractor is
licensed. Any person applying for a permit who is required to have a state
license but who does not have a state license shall be reported to the State
Commissioner of Commerce, who may begin an action against the person.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   After the date of the adoption of this code, only manufactured homes which
comply with the Manufactured Home Building Code established by M.S. § 327.31
may be located in and used as a dwelling within the city. A mobile home,
manufactured home, house trailer or other mobile dwelling which does not comply
with the Manufactured Home Building Code and which is used as a residence after
the date of the adoption of this code is a nonconforming use as defined by M.S.
§ 462.357, Subd. 1e, as it may be amended from time to time, and this
nonconforming use may be continued, including through repair, maintenance,
replacement, restoration or improvement but if the nonconformity or occupancy
is discontinued for a period of more than one year, or the nonconforming use is
destroyed by fire or other peril to the extent of greater than 50% of its
market value and no building permit is applied for within 180 days of when the
property is damaged, any subsequent use or occupancy of the land or premises
shall be a conforming use or occupancy.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.04 AMATEUR RADIO SUPPORT TOWERS.
   Amateur radio support structures (towers) shall not exceed a height above
ground level of 70 feet, unless a conditional use permit has been granted by
the City Council. They shall be mounted on the roof of a dwelling or other
building or located in the rear yard unless there is not sufficient space to
erect them in those locations. They shall be installed in accordance with the
instructions furnished by the manufacturer of that tower model. Because of the
experimental nature of the amateur radio service, antennas mounted on a tower
may be modified and changed at any time so long as the published allowable load
on the tower is not exceeded and the structure of the tower remains in
accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
§ 150.05 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Findings. The City Council makes the following findings regarding the
effect sexually oriented businesses have on the character of the city's
neighborhoods. In making these findings, the City Council accepts the
recommendation of the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group on the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses dated June 6, 1989, a copy of which
is adopted by reference and included in
Appendix II of Chapter 119 of this code. This §
150.05 shall have no force and effect until the City Council accepts these
recommendations by resolution of a majority of its members, using the model
resolution contained in
Appendix I of Chapter 119 of this code.
      (1)   Sexually-oriented businesses have an impact on the neighborhoods
surrounding them which is distinct from the impact caused by other uses.
      (2)   Residential and commercial neighborhoods located within close
proximity to sexually oriented businesses experience the following negative
impacts:
         (a)   Increased crime rates, particularly in sex-related crimes such
as rapes, prostitution, indecent exposure and other lewd and lascivious
behavior;
         (b)   Property values which are either diminished or fail to
appreciate at the rate of other comparable properties not located in proximity
to sexually oriented businesses;
         (c)   Increased transiency and decreased stability of ownership;
         (d)   Deteriorated neighborhood appearance from litter and graffiti;
         (e)   Sex-related harassment of residents and customers by motorists
and pedestrians;
         (f)   A perception that the area is “unsafe;” and
         (g)   Difficulty in attracting and retaining customers, employees, and
desirable tenants.
      (3)   The adverse impacts which sexually oriented businesses have on
surrounding areas diminish as the distance from the sexually oriented business
increases.
      (4)   The adverse impacts of sexually-oriented businesses are exacerbated
when the uses are located near each other.
      (5)   The presence of liquor establishments in the immediate vicinity of
sexually oriented businesses also compounds the adverse impacts on the
neighborhood.
      (6)   Sexually oriented businesses can exert a dehumanizing influence on
persons attending places of worship, children attending day care centers or
schools, and people using public parks and libraries.
      (7)   Sexually oriented businesses can significantly contribute to the
deterioration of residential neighborhoods and can impair the character and
quality of the residential housing in the area where they are located, thereby
exacerbating the shortage of affordable and habitable housing for city
residents.
      (8)   The concentration of sexually oriented businesses in one area can
have a substantially detrimental effect on that area and on the overall quality
of urban life. A cycle of decay can result from the influx and concentration of
sexually oriented businesses. The presence of such businesses is perceived by
others as an indication that the area is deteriorating and the result can be
devastating: other businesses move out of the vicinity and residents flee from
the area. The resulting decline in real estate values erodes the city's tax
base and contributes to overall urban blight.
      (9)   Land use regulations are appropriate to minimize the detrimental
effects that sexually oriented businesses have on adjacent land uses.
   (B)   If the city has not adopted zoning regulations for sexually oriented
businesses, as defined by §
153.03, then a sexually oriented business may locate only in those areas of the
city which the City Council determines that the predominant use of the land is
for commercial or industrial purposes.
   (C)   No person may operate a sexually oriented business on property, any
part of which is within the area circumscribed by a circle that has a radius of
250 feet from any of the uses listed below. Distances must be measured by
following a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects,
between the closest points on the boundary lines of the property parcels where
the two uses are located. This distance requirement applies to the following
uses:
      (1)   Property used or zoned for residential uses;
      (2)   A day care facility, school, library, park, playground, state or
federal wildlife area or preserve, religious institution, or other public
recreational facility;
      (3)   Premises licensed under
Chapter 112, Liquor Regulations; and
      (4)   Another sexually-oriented business.
   (D)   These provisions, along with
Ch. 119, are intended to supercede the provisions of M.S. § 617.242, as it may
be amended from time to time, and render M.S. § 617.242 inapplicable as
authorized by the statute.
§ 150.06 COMPLIANCE WITH CODE.
   No person shall erect, alter or replace any structure within the city unless
the structure complies with the applicable requirements of this code and the
person has obtained a land use permit from the City Clerk certifying compliance
with all of the applicable requirements of this code. No person shall use any
structure or premises for any purpose other than as permitted by this code,
except that lawful nonconforming uses as of the date of the adoption of this
code may continue only as provided in M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 1e, as it may be
amended from time to time.
CHAPTER 151: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Authorization, intent and purpose
   
151.02   Title
   
151.03   Interpretation of terms
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Zoning map
   
151.06   Annexed land
   
151.07   Compliance with ordinance
   
151.08   Severability
Zoning Districts
   
151.20   Classification of zoning districts
   
151.21   R-1 Single-Family Residential District
   
151.22   R-2 Multiple-Family Residential District
   
151.23   Manufactured home parks
   
151.24   Manufactured homes
   
151.25   C-1 Central Business District
   
151.26   C-2 Commercial District
   
151.27   I Industrial District
   
151.28   Rural Residential and Agricultural District
Performance Standards
   
151.30   Performance standards
   
151.31   Landscaping requirements
Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
   
151.35   Purpose
   
151.36   Required off-street parking
   
151.37   Special off-street parking requirements
   
151.38   Off-street loading
   
151.39   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
   
151.40   Requirements and prohibitions
   
151.41   Reductions allowed
Permits and Requirements for Fences, Walls or Hedges
   
151.45   Application
   
151.46   General requirements
   
151.47   Residential regulations
   
151.48   Variance
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.49   Consistency with state law
   
151.50   Applications
   
151.51   Public notice and hearings
   
151.52   Final actions
   
151.53   Notice of decision
   
151.54   Land use permit required
   
151.55   Conditional use permits
   
151.56   Board of Appeals and Adjustments
   
151.57   Variances
   
151.58   Nonconforming uses
   
151.59   Amendments
   
151.60   Appeals
   
151.61   Record of decisions
   
151.62   Enforcement
   
151.63   Planning Commission
   
151.64   Certification of taxes paid
   
151.99   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 AUTHORIZATION, INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the
Municipal Planning Act, M.S. §§ 462.351 et seq. The intent of this chapter is
to ensure public health, safety and general welfare in accordance with the
adopted development goals, plans and policies as stated hereto. This plan for
the city is to ensure that the land uses of the city are properly situated in
relation to one another, providing for adequate space for each type of
development; to control the density of development in each area of the city so
that the property can be adequately serviced by such governmental facilities as
streets, schools, recreation and utilities systems; to direct new growth into
appropriate areas; to protect existing property by requiring that the
development afford adequate light, air and privacy for persons living and
working within the city; to improve the quality of the physical environment of
the city; to protect and maintain property values, and to preserve and develop
the economic base of the city.
   (B)   This chapter is not in effect until the provisions of §
151.05 are complied with and notice and public hearing is provided as required
by M.S. § 462.357 Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 151.02 TITLE.
   This chapter, together with the zoning map required at §
151.05, shall be known as the”City Zoning Ordinance” except as referred to
herein, where it shall be known as “this Ordinance” or “this chapter.”
§ 151.03 INTERPRETATIONS OF TERMS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common
usage unless such meaning is clearly contrary to the intent of this chapter and
so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application. For the purpose of
this chapter, the words “must” and “shall” are mandatory and “may” is
permissive. All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
horizontally. For the purpose of this chapter, the terms in §
151.04 have the meanings given them.
§ 151.04 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. Any building or improvement located on the
same lot as the principal use subordinate to a principal use which, because of
the nature of its use, can reasonably be located at or greater than normal
structure setbacks.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use on the same lot with and incidental and subordinate to
the principal use or structure or facility.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns, walls or other
means of support for the shelter or enclosure of persons or property.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water
level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
   COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental or trade of products, goods and services and other activities carried
out for financial gain.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development as defined by ordinance that
would not be appropriate generally but may be allowed with appropriate
restrictions as provided by official controls upon a finding that certain
conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist, the use or development
conforms to comprehensive land use plan of the community, and the use is
compatible with the existing neighborhood. The city may impose additional
conditions in specific instances to protect the health, safety and welfare.
   DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises, or other features, attached or functionally related to
principal use or site and at any point extending more than three feet above
ground level.
   DWELLING, DUPLEX, TRIPLEX and QUAD. A dwelling structure on a single lot,
having two, three, and four units respectively, being attached by common walls
and each unit equipped with separate sleeping cooking, eating, living and
sanitation facilities.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof used for occupancy by
three or more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building used exclusively for occupancy by one
family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building used exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING SITE. A designated location for residential use by one or more
persons using temporary or movable shelter, including camping and recreational
vehicle sites.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any structure or portion of a structure or other shelter
designed as short or long- term living quarters for one or more persons,
including rental or time-share accommodations, such as motel, hotel and resort
rooms and cabins.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A lawful occupation customarily carried on by a resident of
a dwelling as an accessory use within the same building. Such occupation must
be clearly secondary to the principal use and not change the nature of the
principal use.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items.
   JUNK YARD. Land and structures used for the storage or keeping of junk,
including scrap metals, or for the dismantling or wrecking of automobiles or
other machinery, other than the storage of materials which is incidental or
accessory to any business or industrial use on the same lot.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL. The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods and
materials using processes that ordinarily do not create noise, smoke, fumes,
odors, glare or health or safety hazards outside the building or lot where the
assembly, fabrication or processing takes place, where the processes are housed
entirely within a building, or where the outdoor storage of goods and materials
used does not exceed 25% of the floor area of all buildings on the lot.
   LOT. A parcel of land designated by plat, metes and bounds, registered land
survey, auditors plot, or other accepted means, and separated from other
parcels or portions by that description for the purpose of sale, lease or
separation. A lot must be situated and have its principal frontage on a public
street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets, or
bounded on two or more adjacent sides by street lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a lot which divides a lot from another
lot, a public street or any other public or private space.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. A lot line abutting a dedicated public right-of-way.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line. In the case of corner lots, the rear lot line shall be determined by the
zoning administrator based upon characteristics of the surrounding
neighborhood.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. The shortest distance between lot lines measured at the midpoint
of the building line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections which
in the traveling mode is eight feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in
length, or when erected on-site is 320 or more square feet, and which is built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating and air conditioning and electrical systems contained
therein, and which meets all the requirements established under M.S. § 327.31,
as it may be amended from time to time, the Manufactured Home Building Code.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE. A structure or use lawfully in existence on
the effective date of this chapter or any amendment thereto, and not conforming
to the regulations for the district in which it is situated.
   NONCONFORMITY. Any legal use, structure or parcel of land already in
existence, recorded, or authorized before the adoption of official controls or
amendments thereto that would not have been permitted to become established
under the terms of the official controls as now written, if the official
controls had been in effect prior to the date it was established, recorded or
authorized.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, COMMERCIAL. Typically include uses that provide
transient, short-term lodging spaces, rooms or parcels, and their operations
are essentially service-oriented. For example: hotel/motel accommodations,
resorts, recreational vehicle and camping parks, and other primarily service-
oriented activities are Commercial Planned Unit Developments.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, RESIDENTIAL. A use where the nature of residency
is non- transient, and major or primary focus is not service-oriented. For
example: residential apartments, manufactured home parks, townhouses and full-
fee ownership residences would be considered as Residential Planned Unit
Developments. To qualify as a Residential Planned Unit Development, a
development must contain at least five dwelling units or sites.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty truck and is
primarily designed not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment in which food and/or drink is offered or
prepared and served for public consumption and is served to customers at tables
by employees. Restaurants may include incidental take-out service.
   SETBACK. The minimum distance from any lot line that an improvement may be
placed, measured perpendicularly from the lot line to the closest point of the
improvement.
   SETBACK LINE. The line which is the specified setback -distance from and
parallel to any lot line, or other specified line, such as the ordinary high
water level, edge of wetland, floodplain, or top of bluff.
   STORAGE. Goods, materials or equipment placed or left in a location on a
premises.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, placed or erected on or attached to, in
some manner, the ground.
   STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL. The building in which is conducted the primary use of
the lot on which the building is located.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which a premises is designed, arranged or
intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM OR WINDMILL. An apparatus capable of
converting wind energy into electricity.
   YARD. An open space unobstructed from the ground upward with the exception
of landscape materials and minor fixtures of a non-structural nature commonly
found in a yard.
   YARD, FRONT. The area between the front lot line and the front setback line.
   YARD, REAR. The area between the rear lot line and the rear setback line.
   YARD, SIDE. A space extending from the front yard to the rear yard along a
side lot line measured perpendicularly from the side lot line to the closest
point of a structure.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The City Clerk or other person designated by the City
Council to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
§ 151.05 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   This chapter has no effect until the boundaries of the use districts
are delineated on an Official Zoning Map, created pursuant to M.S. § 462.357,
Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time, which, once it is adopted by
ordinance after notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 3, as
it may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter. This map shall be on permanent file and
available for public inspection in the City Office. It shall be the
responsibility of the Clerk or other person appointed by the City Council to
administer this chapter to maintain and keep the map up to date.
   (B)   All property within the city shall have the zoning designation shown
on the official zoning map. If there is any discrepancy or inconsistency
between the official zoning map and any other map, ordinance or source which
purports to indicate the zoning of property, the official zoning map shall take
precedence. The provisions of this section shall not be interpreted to require
the city to zone all properties within the city limits or to prevent zoning of
only a portion of the city.
   (C)   Zoning district boundary lines shown on the official zoning map are
intended to follow lot lines, the center lines of streets or alleys, the center
lines of street or alleys projected, railroad right-of-way lines, the center of
watercourses or the corporate limits of the city, unless otherwise specifically
indicated.
§ 151.06 ANNEXED LAND.
   Any land hereafter annexed to the city shall be considered to be in the
district that is delineated on the adjacent areas than are designated for
orderly annexation, unless otherwise reclassified.
§ 151.07 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no
structure shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or
structurally altered, except in conformity with the regulations specified in
the Zoning Ordinance for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall be minimum requirements. Where
the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter differ from those
required by any statute or other ordinance of the city, the regulations which
are more restrictive or which impose the higher standard shall prevail.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 SEVERABILITY.
   Every section or subdivision of this chapter is declared separable from
every other section or subdivision. If any section or subdivision is held to be
invalid by competent authority, no other section or subdivision shall be
invalidated by such action or decision.
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 151.20 CLASSIFICATION OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   R-1 Single Family Residential District
   (B)   R-2 Multi-Family Residential District
   (C)   C-1 Central Business District
   (D)   C-2 Central Business District
   (E)   I Industrial
   (F)   Rural Residential and Agricultural District
§ 151.21 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the R-1 Single Family Residential District is
to provide for moderate density one and two-family dwelling units and directly
related, complementary uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses and structures.
      (1)   One and two-family dwelling units.
      (2)   Public, government owned parks, playgrounds, athletic fields and
other public recreational uses.
      (3)   Churches and places of religious assembly, public and private
schools and government-owned buildings and facilities.
      (4)   Agricultural gardens and forestry.
      (5)   Manufactured homes which meet the standards set forth in §
151.24.
      (6)   As required by M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 7, as it may be amended from
time to time, a state licensed residential facility serving six or fewer
persons, a licensed day care facility serving 12 or fewer persons, and a group
family day care facility licensed under Minn. Rules, parts 9502.0315 to
9502.0445, as it may be amended from time to time, to serve 14 or fewer
children shall be considered a permitted single family residential use of
property for the purposes of zoning, except that a residential facility whose
primary purpose is to treat juveniles who have violated criminal statutes
relating to sex offenses or have been adjudicated delinquent on the basis of
conduct in violation of criminal statutes relating to sex offenses shall not be
considered a permitted use.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Customary accessory uses incidental to the principal uses such as
gardens, private garages, screen porches, play equipment, signs, as set forth
in division (D)(1) of this section, one storage shed not exceeding 12 feet in
height or 500 square feet or covering more than 30% of the area of the side or
rear yard in which they are located, satellite dishes and antennae, solar
equipment, greenhouses not exceeding 12 feet in height or 500 square feet or
covering more than 30% of the area of the side or rear yard in which they are
located and swimming pools intended for single-family use.
      (2)   The renting of rooms by a resident family for lodging purposes
only, and for not more than two rooms in a one-family dwelling.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Within the R-1 District no structure or land shall
be used for the following except by conditional use permit and in conformance
with the standards specified in division (I) of this section.
      (1)   Home occupations in a residence.
      (2)   Hospitals and nursing homes, licensed day care centers serving 12
or more persons and cemeteries.
      (3)   Accessory buildings other than those listed in (C)(1), including
storage sheds and green houses over 12 feet in height or 500 square feet or
covering more than 30% of the area of the side or rear yard in which they are
located.
      (4)   Wind energy conversion systems or windmills.
      (5)   Private recreational facilities as a principal use and excluding
accessory play equipment and swimming pools intended for single family use.
   (E)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in an R-1 District, subject to additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area. 10,000 square feet (100 x 100).
      (2)   Lot width. 75 feet.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards. Not less than 30 feet;
         (b)   Side yards. 5 feet.
         (c)   Side yards, corner lots. 25 feet on side adjacent to street, but
in no case less than the setback of an adjacent lot which has its front yard on
the same street.
         (d)   Rear yards. 30 feet.
      (4)   Detached accessory building setback requirements. Not less than 5
feet from rear yard line and not less than 4 feet from the side yard lines in
the rear yard. On corner lots not less than 25 feet from the adjacent street,
but in no case less than the setback of an adjacent lot which has its front
yard on the same street.
      (5)   Access. All lots shall front on and have ingress and egress by
means of a public right-of-way.
   (F)   Building requirements; height. No structure shall exceed 2 stories or
35 feet, whichever is less.
   (G)   Parking. Refer to §§
151.35 through
151.39.
   (H)   Height limitations. Height limitations shall not apply to water
towers, chimneys, flag poles, antennae, wind energy conversion systems, church
spires, church belfries or church domes not containing habitable space and
support towers permitted by §
150.04.
   (I)   Conditional use permit standards for the R-1 Single-Family Residential
District.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the intent of the city in establishing general and
specific criteria for conditional uses that such uses be subject to careful
evaluation to ensure that their location, size and design are consistent with
the standards, purposes and procedures of this chapter and the comprehensive
plan, if one exists. The Planning Commission, if one exists, may recommend and
the City Council may impose conditions on such uses in order to effect the
purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   General standards. No conditional use permit shall be granted
unless the City Council determines that all of the following standards will be
met:
         (a)   The use is consistent with the intent of this chapter;
         (b)   The use is consistent with the goals, policies and objectives of
the comprehensive plan, if one exists;
         (c)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on governmental
facilities, utilities, services or existing or proposed improvements; and
         (d)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on the public
health, safety or welfare.
      (3)   Specific standards. In addition to the standards specified in
division (2) above, no conditional use permit shall be granted unless the City
Council determines that all of the specific standards contained in this
subdivision will be met.
         (a)   Licensed day care facilities for 15 or more persons:
            1.   Located only on a collector or arterial roadway as designated
in the comprehensive plan, if one exists, or otherwise located so that access
can be provided without conducting significant traffic on local residential
streets;
            2.   Buildings set back 50 feet from all property lines and parking
lots set back 15 feet from streets and non-residential property and 25 feet
from residential property;
            3.   Pick-up and drop-off areas located outside of parking setback
area;
            4.   Outdoor recreational areas to be set back 15 feet from all
property lines and screening provided to mitigate noise and adverse visual
impacts on neighboring properties; and
            5.   One parking space provided for each six children based upon
the licensed capacity of the center;
         (b)   Storage sheds or greenhouses in excess of 500 square feet of
gross floor area or 12 feet in height or occupying more than 30% of the side or
rear yard in which they are located:
            1.   Side and rear setbacks equal to the height of the structure or
15 feet, whichever is greater:
            2.   Not to be used for commercial activities:
            3.   Structure to be architecturally consistent with the principal
structure;
            4.   Landscaping to be required to buffer views when the structure
is highly visible from adjoining properties;
            5.   Minimum lot size of four acres; and
            6.   Must be located in a side or rear yard.
         (c)   Home occupations in a residence:
            1.   Such occupation shall be carried on in the-main building;
            2.   Not more than 25% of the floor space of the residence is used
for this purpose;
            3.   No articles for sale be displayed so as to be visible from the
street;
            4.   The conduct of the home occupation shall result in no change
in the outside appearance of the building or land, or other visible evidence of
the conduct of the home occupation, other than one sign, not exceeding one
square foot in area, non-illuminated and mounted flat against the wall of the
dwelling;
            5.   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in
greater volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood;
            6.   Only limited retail sales activity;
            7.   Maximum of one outside employee;
            8.   Adequate off-street parking based on number of employees and
customers per day;
            9.   Parking area screened from offsite views;
            10.   No outside storage;
            11.   Shall not result in significant levels of noise, air or other
pollution and shall meet the performance standards of §
151.30;
            12.   Business hours restricted to no more than 8:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m.; and
            13.   Outside parking of no more than one commercial type vehicle
or vehicle identified for business purposes not to exceed one ton capacity
which is used for both personal and business transportation. The vehicle is to
be owned and registered by an occupant of the property and parked in a screened
location.
         (d)   Private recreational facilities as a principal use:
            1.   Direct access limited to a collector or arterial roadway as
identified in the comprehensive plan, if any, or otherwise located so that
access can be provided without conducting significant traffic on local
residential streets;
            2.   Buildings set back 50 feet from all property lines;
            3.   No more than 70% of the site to be covered with impervious
surface and the remainder to be suitably landscaped in accordance with §
151.31;
            4.   Signs shall be designed to be consistent with the principal
use;
            5.   Adequate off-street parking based on number of employees and
customers per day;
            6.   Parking area and waste management areas screened from offsite
views;
            7.   No outside storage; and
            8.   Shall not result in significant levels of noise, air or other
pollution.
         (e)   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS):
            1.   Set back from the nearest property line a distance equal to
the height of the tower plus one-half the diameter of the rotor;
            2.   Certified by a professional engineer as being of a design
adequate for the atmospheric conditions of the area;
            3.   Equipped with over-speed or similar controls designed to
prevent disintegration of the rotor in high winds;
            4.   Compliance with all building and electrical code requirements
of the city, the noise regulations of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
and the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and
Federal Aviation Administration;
            5.   If the WECS has not been operated for a period of one year or
fails to meet the conditions of this chapter, the City Council may order it
dismantled and the site restored to its original condition;
            6.   If the owner or person responsible for the WECS does not
maintain it or comply with all requirements of this chapter, the city may take
such steps as are necessary to achieve compliance. The cost of such work,
including administrative costs, shall be a lien against the property and may be
collected as a special assessment. The city may sell salvaged and valuable
materials at public auction on ten days' notice; and
            7.   The WECS shall meet the performance standards of §
151.30.
         (f)   Hospitals or nursing homes:
            1.   Direct access limited to a collector or arterial roadway as
identified in the comprehensive plan, if any, or otherwise located so that
access can be provided without conducting significant traffic on local
residential streets;
            2.   Buildings set back 50 feet from all property lines;
            3.   No more than 70% of the site to be covered with impervious
surface and the remainder to be suitably landscaped;
            4.   Signs shall be designed to be consistent with the principal
use;
            5.   Adequate off-street parking based on number of employees and
customers per day;
            6.   Parking area and waste management areas screened from offsite
views;
            7.   No outside storage; and
            8.   Shall not result in significant levels of noise, air or other
pollution and shall meet the performance standards of §
151.30.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.22 R-2 MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the R-2 Multiple Family Residential District
is to provide for medium density housing in multiple family structures and
directly related complementary uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses and structures.
      (1)   Any permitted use in a Single-Family Residential District.
      (2)   Multiple-family dwelling.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Any accessory use permitted in Single-Family
Residential District.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Within the R-2 District no structure or land shall
be used for the following except by conditional use permit and in conformance
with the standards specified in division (H) of this section.
      (1)   Any conditional use permitted in Single-Family Residential
District.
      (2)   As required by M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 8, a licensed day care
facility serving from 13 through 16 persons.
   (E)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in R-2 Districts, subject to additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area. 10,000 square feet for one and two-family dwellings and
3,000 square feet per dwelling unit for multiple-family dwellings.
      (2)   Lot width. 75 feet for one and two-family dwellings, and 100 feet
for multiple family dwellings.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards. Not less than 30 feet.
         (b)   Side yards. 5 feet.
         (c)   Side yards, corner lots. 25 feet on side adjacent to street, but
in no case less than the setback of an adjacent lot which has its front yard on
the same street.
         (d)   Rear yards. 30 feet.
      (4)   Detached accessory building setback requirements. Not less than 5
feet from the rear lot line and not less than 4 feet from the side yard line in
the rear yard. On corner lots, not less than 25 feet from adjacent lot which
has its front yard on the same street.
      (5)   All lots shall front on and have ingress and egress by means a
public right-of-way.
   (F)   Parking. Refer to §§
151.35 through
151.39.
   (G)   Height limitations shall not apply to water towers, chimneys, flag
poles, antennae, wind energy conversion systems, church spires, church belfries
or church domes not containing habitable space and support towers permitted by
§
150.04.
   (H)   Conditional use permit standards for the R-2 Multiple-Family
Residential District.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the intent of the city in establishing general and
specific criteria for conditional uses that such uses be subject to careful
evaluation to ensure that their location, size and design are consistent with
the standards, purposes and procedures of this chapter and the comprehensive
plan, if one exists. The Planning Commission, if one exists, may recommend and
the City Council may impose conditions on such uses in order to effect the
purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   General standards. No conditional use permit shall be granted
unless the City Council determines that all of the following standards will be
met:
         (a)   The use is consistent with the intent of this chapter;
         (b)   The use is consistent with the goals, policies and objectives of
the comprehensive plan, if one exists;
         (c)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on governmental
facilities, utilities, services or existing or proposed improvements; and
         (d)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on the public
health, safety or welfare.
      (3)   Specific standards. In addition to the standards specified in
division (2) above, no conditional use permit shall be granted unless the City
Council determines that all of the specific standards contained in this
subdivision will be met.
         (a)   A licensed day care facility serving from 13 through 16 persons.
            1.   Located only on a collector or arterial roadway as designated
in the comprehensive plan, if one exists, or otherwise located so that access
can be provided without conducting significant traffic on local residential
streets;
            2.   Buildings set back 50 feet from all property lines and parking
lots set back 15 feet from streets and non-residential property and 25 feet
from residential property;
            3.   Pick-up and drop-off areas located outside of parking setback
area;
            4.   Outdoor recreational areas to be set back 15 feet from all
property lines and screening provided to mitigate noise and adverse visual
impacts on neighboring properties;
            5.   One parking space provided for each six attendees based upon
the licensed capacity of the center; and
            6.   Meets the performance standards of §
151.30.
         (b)   Storage sheds or greenhouses in excess of 500 square feet of
gross floor area or 12 feet in height or occupying more than 30% of the side or
rear yard in which they are located:
            1.   Side and rear setbacks equal to the height of the structure or
15 feet, whichever is greater;
            2.   Not to be used for commercial activities:
            3.   Structure to be architecturally consistent with the principal
structure:
            4.   Landscaping to be required to buffer views when the structure
is highly visible from adjoining properties;
            5.   Minimum lot size of four acres;
            6.   Must be located in a side or rear yard.
         (c)   Home occupations in a residence:
            1.   Such occupation shall be carried on in the-main building;
            2.   Not more than 25% of the floor space of the-residence is used
for this purpose;
            3.   No articles for sale be displayed so as to be visible from the
street;
            4.   The conduct of the home occupation shall result in no change
in the outside appearance of the building or land, or other visible evidence of
the conduct of the home occupation, other than one sign, not exceeding one
square foot in area, non-illuminated and mounted flat against the wall of the
dwelling;
            5.   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in
greater volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood;
            6.   Only limited retail sales activity;
            7.   Maximum of one outside employee;
            8.   Adequate off-street parking based on number of employees and
customers per day;
            9.   Parking area screened from offsite views;
            10.   No outside storage;
            11.   Shall not result in significant levels of noise, air or other
pollution and meets the performance standards of §
151.30;
            12.   Business hours restricted to no more than 8:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m.; and
            13.   Outside parking of no more than one commercial type vehicle
or vehicle identified for business purposes not to exceed one ton capacity
which is used for both personal and business transportation. The vehicle is to
be owned and registered by an occupant of the property and parked in a screened
location.
         (d)   Private recreational facilities as a principal use:
            1.   Direct access limited to a collector or arterial roadway as
identified in the comprehensive plan, if any, or otherwise located so that
access can be provided without conducting significant traffic on local
residential streets;
            2.   Buildings set back 50 feet from all property lines;
            3.   No more than 70% of the site to be covered with impervious
surface and the remainder to be suitably landscaped;
            4.   Signs shall be designed to be consistent with the principal
use;
            5.   Adequate off-street parking based on number of employees and
customers per day;
            6.   Parking area and waste management areas screened from offsite
views;
            7.   No outside storage; and
            8.   Shall not result in significant levels of noise, air or other
pollution and meets the performance standards of §
151.30.
         (e)   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS):
            1.   Set back from the nearest property line a distance equal to
the height of the tower plus one-half the diameter of the rotor;
            2.   Certified by a professional engineer as being of a design
adequate for the atmospheric conditions of the area;
            3.   Equipped with over-speed or similar controls designed to
prevent disintegration of the rotor in high winds;
            4.   Compliance with all building and electrical code requirements
of the city, the noise regulations of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
and the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and
Federal Aviation Administration;
            5.   If the WECS has not been operated for a period of one year or
fails to meet the conditions of this chapter, the City Council may order it
dismantled and the site restored to its original condition;
            6.   If the owner or person responsible for the WECS does not
maintain it or comply with all requirements of this chapter, the city may take
such steps as are necessary to achieve compliance. The cost of such work,
including administrative costs, shall be a lien against the property and may be
collected as a special assessment. The city may sell salvaged and valuable
materials at public auction on ten days' notice; and
            7.   The WECS shall meet the performance standards of §
151.30.
         (f)   Hospitals or nursing homes:
            1.   Direct access limited to a collector or arterial roadway as
identified in the comprehensive plan, if any, or otherwise located so that
access can be provided without conducting significant traffic on local
residential streets;
            2.   Buildings set back 50 feet from all property lines;
            3.   No more than 70% of the site to be covered with impervious
surface and the remainder to be suitably landscaped;
            4.   Signs shall be designed to be consistent with the principal
use;
            5.   Adequate off-street parking based on number of employees and
customers per day;
            6.   Parking area and waste management areas screened from off site
views;
            7.   No outside storage; and
            8.   Shall not result in significant levels of noise, air or other
pollution and meets the performance standards of §
151.30.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.23 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   General. Manufactured home parks that are licensed by the State
Department of Health are conditional uses in any zoning district that allows
the construction or placement of a building used or intended to be used by two
or more families. All manufactured home parks shall, in addition to any
requirements imposed by rule of the State Department of Health or law, meet the
following performance standards and any other conditions placed on them by the
conditional use permit.
   (B)   Permitted uses and structures.
      (1)   Manufactured homes.
      (2)   Essential services such as water, sewer, telephone and electric
utilities.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Recreational vehicles and equipment.
      (2)   Recreational facilities, gardens, commons and open space which are
operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the principal
use and their guests, such as tennis courts and swimming pools.
      (3)   Building for storage of maintenance equipment incidental to the
principal use.
      (4)   Solar panels and equipment.
   (D)   Conditional use. Customary home occupations as set forth in §
151.21(D).
   (E)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in a manufactured home park, subject to additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area. Each individual manufactured home site shall contain at
least 5,000 square feet for exclusive use of the occupant.
      (2)   Lot width. Each individual manufactured home site shall have a lot
width of at least 50 feet.
      (3)   Setbacks for each individual manufactured home site.
         (a)   Front yards. Not less than 15 feet.
         (b)   Side yards. 5 feet.
         (c)   Rear yards. 8 feet.
      (4)   Detached accessory building setback requirements. Not less than 5
feet from the rear lot line and not less than 4 feet from the side yard lines
in the rear yard.
   (F)   Parking. Refer to §§
151.35 through
151.39.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.24 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   The city authorizes the placement of manufactured homes in residential
districts within the city if such manufactured homes comply with the following
conditions:
   (A)   Manufactured homes shall comply with all zoning regulations for the
district in which they are located.
   (B)   A building permit and any other required permits shall be obtained for
manufactured homes.
   (C)   All such manufactured homes shall be built in compliance with any
Minnesota Statutes regulating manufactured homes.
   (D)   Connection to city utilities, if available, shall be required.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.25 C-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the C-1 Central Business District is in
recognition of the existing downtown business and commercial development and
the need for its future expansion, rehabilitation and redevelopment.
   (B)   Permitted uses and structures.
      (1)   Business and commercial establishments including:
         (a)   Retail establishments, including grocery, hardware, drug,
clothing, variety and furniture stores; eating and drinking places, auto
dealers, automobile service stations, farm implement dealerships, farm supply
stores, seasonal evergreen sales and meat locker shops.
         (b)   Personal services, including laundries, beauty shops, barber
shops, funeral homes, shoe repair shops, printing and publishing shops and
photographic studios.
         (c)   Professional services, including medical and dental clinics and
attorney's offices.
         (d)   Repair services, including automobile, jewelry, radio and
television repair shops, appliance repair shops, farm and implement repair
shops, plumbing contractor's shop and electrical contractor's shop.
         (e)   Entertainment and amusement services, including motion picture
theatres, recreation halls and bowling alleys.
         (f)   Lodging services, including hotels and motels.
         (g)   Finance, insurance, real estate and tax services.
      (2)   Public and semi-public buildings, including post office, fire hall
and city hall.
      (3)   Private clubs.
      (4)   Apartments, provided they are located above the first floor level.
      (5)   Automobile parking lots.
      (6)   Essential services, such as sewer, water, telephone and electric
utility facilities.
      (7)   Churches and places of religious assembly.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses, such
as off-street parking and loading and unloading areas, signs, indoor storage of
merchandise and wholesaling and manufacturing, when incidental to a permitted
use, solar panels, satellite dishes and antennas.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Within the C-1 District no structure or land shall
be used for the following except by conditional use permit and in conformance
with the standards specified in division (I) of this section.
      (1)   One and two-family dwellings and multiple-family dwellings,
including manufactured homes meeting the standards as set forth in §
151.24, and manufactured home parks licensed by the state.
      (2)   Nonresidential licensed day care facilities.
      (3)   Outdoor storage incidental to a principal use.
      (4)   Drive-thru or drive-up window accessory to a principal use.
      (5)   Sidewalk cafes and outdoor eating or dining areas accessory to a
principal use.
   (E)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in C-1 Districts, subject to additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area. None.
      (2)   Lot width. None.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards. None.
         (b)   Side yards. None.
         (c)   Rear yards. 15 feet.
      (4)   All lots shall front on and have ingress and egress by means of a
public right-of-way.
   (F)   Building requirements; height. No structure shall exceed 3 stories or
45 feet, whichever is less.
   (G)   Parking. Refer to §§
151.35 through
151.39.
   (H)   Height limitations. Height limitations shall not apply to water
towers, chimneys, flag poles, antennae, wind energy conversion systems, church
spires, church belfries or church domes not containing habitable space and
support towers permitted by §
150.04.
   (I)   Conditional use permit standards for the C-1 Central Business
District.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the intent of the city in establishing general and
specific criteria for conditional uses that such uses be subject to careful
evaluation to ensure that their location, size and design are consistent with
the standards, purposes and procedures of this chapter and the comprehensive
plan, if one exists. The Planning Commission, if one exists, may recommend and
the City Council may impose conditions on such uses in order to effect the
purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   General standards. No conditional use permit shall be granted
unless the City Council determines that all of the following standards will be
met:
         (a)   The use is consistent with the intent of this chapter;
         (b)   The use is consistent with the goals, policies and objectives of
the comprehensive plan, if one exists;
         (c)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on governmental
facilities, utilities, services or existing or proposed improvements; and
         (d)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on the public
health, safety or welfare.
         (e)   The use meets meet the performance standards of §
151.30.
      (3)   Specific standards. In addition to the standards specified in
division (2) above, no conditional use permit shall be granted unless the City
Council determines that all of the specific standards contained in this
division (I) will be met.
         (a)   One and two family dwellings and multiple-family dwellings,
including manufactured homes meeting the standards set forth in §
151.24 and manufactured home parks licensed by the state.
            1.   Building and site design shall provide a quality residential
environment which is compatible with the permitted use;
            2.   At least two off-street parking spaces must be provided for
the each residential unit, with such parking to be in a garage, carport or on a
paved area specifically intended for that purpose;
            3.   The dwelling unit must be in compliance with all applicable
building, housing, electrical, plumbing, heating and related city codes;
            4.   The use will be permitted only where the dwelling unit will
not have an undue adverse impact on adjacent properties and where there will
not be a substantial alteration of the neighborhood character;
            5.   The city may require buffering or screening if needed.
         (b)   Nonresidential licensed daycare facilities.
            1.   Shall have loading and drop-off points designed to avoid
interfering with traffic and pedestrian movements and designed to promote the
safety of children entering the center;
            2.   Outdoor play areas shall be fenced and located and designed in
a manner which mitigates visual and noise impacts on adjoining residential
areas (if any);
            3.   One parking space for each six attendees based on the licensed
capacity of the center shall be provided; and
            4.   Shall obtain all applicable state, county and city licenses.
         (c)   Outdoor storage incidental to a principal use.
            1.   Outdoor storage shall not be located within 100 feet of any
residential parcel;
            2.   Outdoor storage shall be screened by suitable materials, such
as a fencings or natural landscaping features (trees, shrubbery, berms), as
determined by Council. The screen must be, at minimum, equal to the height of
the tallest item stored on the site;
            3.   Outdoor storage must be located in a rear or side yard;
            4.   Shall be kept in a neat and orderly fashion;
            5.   Shall not contain any unlicensed or inoperable motor vehicles;
and
            6.   Shall not be operated in a manner as to constitute a nuisance
or harborage of rodents or other wild animals.
         (d)   Drive-thru or drive-up windows accessory to a principal use.
            1.   Drive-up windows and stacking areas shall not be located
adjacent to any residential parcel;
            2.   Stacking areas shall provide for a minimum of six cars per
aisle;
            3.   Public address system shall not be audible from any
residential parcel;
            4.   Drive-up windows and stacking areas shall be screened with
suitable materials from adjacent parcels; and
            5.   Drive-up windows shall be designed to avoid interfering with
traffic and pedestrian movements.
         (e)   Sidewalk cafes and outdoor eating or dining areas accessory to a
principal use.
            1.   Shall be located in a controlled or cordoned-area with at
least one opening to an acceptable pedestrian walk. When a liquor license is
involved, an enclosure is required and the enclosure shall not be interrupted;
access shall be only through the principal building;
            2.   Shall not be permitted within 200 feet of any residential
parcel and shall be separated from residential parcels by the principal
structure or other method of screening acceptable to the city;
            3.   Shall be located and designed so as not to interfere with
pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
            4.   Shall not be located to obstruct parking spaces;
            5.   Shall be located adjacent to an entrance to the principal use;
            6.   Shall be equipped with refuse containers and periodically
patrolled for litter pick-up; and
            7.   Shall not have speakers or audio equipment which is audible
from adjacent parcels.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.26 C-2 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the C-2 Commercial District is to provide for
commercial development outside of the C-1 Central Business District.
   (B)   Permitted uses and structures. All uses of a commercial nature,
including retail, light industrial, wholesale, service, office, financial,
recreational, professional, lodging, and sexually oriented businesses in
compliance with Chapters 119 and 153, including all uses permitted in the C-
1 Central Business District, and those other commercial uses as are not
considered industrial as listed in §
151.27.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Those accessory uses permitted in the C-1 Central
Business District.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Within the C-2 district no structure or land-shall
be used for the following except by conditional use permit and in conformance
with the standards specified in section (I) of this ordinance: All conditional
uses permitted in the C-1 District.
   (E)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in C-2 Districts, subject to additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Lot area. None.
      (2)   Lot width. None.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yards. None.
         (b)   Side yards. None.
         (c)   Rear yards. 15 feet.
      (4)   All lots shall front on and have ingress and egress by means of a
public right-of-way.
   (F)   Building requirements; height. No structure shall exceed three stories
or 45 feet, whichever is less.
   (G)   Parking. Refer to §§
151.35 through
151.39.
   (H)   Height limitations shall not apply to water towers, chimneys, flag
poles, antennae, wind energy conversion systems, church spires, church belfries
or church domes not containing habitable space and support towers permitted by
§
150.04.
   (I)   Conditional use permit standards for the C-2 Central Business
District.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the intent of the city in establishing general and
specific criteria for conditional uses that such uses be subject to careful
evaluation to ensure that their location, size and design are consistent with
the standards, purposes and procedures of this chapter and the comprehensive
plan, if one exists. The Planning Commission, if one exists, may recommend and
the City Council may impose conditions on such uses in order to effect the
purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   General standards. No conditional use permit shall be granted
unless the City Council determines that all of the following standards will be
met:
         (a)   The use is consistent with the intent of this chapter;
         (b)   The use is consistent with the goals, policies and objectives of
the comprehensive plan, if one exists;
         (c)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on governmental
facilities, utilities, services or existing or proposed improvements;
         (d)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on the public
health, safety or welfare; and
         (e)   The use meets the performance standards of §
151.30.
      (3)   Specific standards. In addition to the standards specified in
division (2) above, no conditional use permit shall be granted unless the City
Council determines that all of the specific standards contained in this
subdivision will be met.
         (a)   One and two family dwellings and multiple family dwellings,
including manufactured homes meeting the standards set forth in §
151.24 and manufactured home parks licensed by the state.
            1.   Building and site design shall provide a quality residential
environment which is compatible with the permitted use;
            2.   At least two off-street parking spaces must be provided for
the each residential unit, with such parking to be in a garage, carport or on a
paved area specifically intended for that purpose;
            3.   The dwelling unit must be in compliance with all applicable
building, housing, electrical, plumbing, heating and related city codes;
            4.   The use will be permitted only where the dwelling unit will
not have an undue adverse impact on adjacent properties and where there will
not be a substantial alteration of the neighborhood character; and
            5.   The city may require buffering or screening if needed.
         (b)   Nonresidential licensed daycare facilities.
            1.   Shall have loading and drop-off points designed to avoid
interfering with traffic and pedestrian movements and designed to promote the
safety of children entering the center;
            2.   Outdoor play areas shall be fenced and located and designed in
a manner which mitigates visual and noise impacts on adjoining residential
areas (if any);
            3.   One parking space for each six attendees based on the licensed
capacity of the center shall be provided; and
            4.   Shall obtain all applicable state, county and city licenses.
         (c)   Outdoor storage incidental to a principal use.
            1.   Outdoor storage shall not be located within 100 feet of any
residential parcel;
            2.   Outdoor storage shall be screened by suitable materials, such
as a fencings or natural landscaping features (trees, shrubbery, berms), as
determined by Council. The screen must be, at minimum, equal to the height of
the tallest item stored on the site;
            3.   Outdoor storage must be located in a rear or side yard;
            4.   Shall be kept in a neat and orderly fashion;
            5.   Shall not contain any unlicensed or inoperable motor vehicles;
and
            6.   Shall not be operated in a manner as to constitute a nuisance
or harborage of rodents or other wild animals.
         (d)   Drive-thru or drive-up windows accessory to a principal use.
            1.   Drive-up windows and stacking areas shall not be located
adjacent to any residential parcel;
            2.   Stacking areas shall provide for a minimum of six cars per
aisle;
            3.   Public address system shall not be audible from any
residential parcel;
            4.   Drive-up windows and stacking areas shall be screened with
suitable materials from adjacent parcels; and
            5.   Drive-up windows shall be designed to avoid interfering with
traffic and pedestrian movements.
         (e)   Sidewalk cafes and outdoor eating or dining areas accessory to a
principal use.
            1.   Shall be located in a controlled or cordoned area with at
least one opening to an acceptable pedestrian walk. When a liquor license is
involved, an enclosure is required and the enclosure shall not be interrupted;
access shall be only through the principal building;
            2.   Shall not be permitted within 200 feet of any residential
parcel and shall be separated from residential parcels by the principal
structure or other method of screening acceptable to the city;
            3.   Shall be located and designed so as not to interfere with
pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
            4.   Shall not be located to obstruct parking spaces;
            5.   Shall be located adjacent to an entrance to the principal use;
            6.   Shall be equipped with refuse containers and periodically
patrolled for litter pick-up; and
            7.   Shall not have speakers or audio equipment which is audible
from adjacent parcels.
§ 151.27 INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the I Industrial District is to provide for
industrial development outside of the other districts authorized by this
chapter. Development within the district shall be regulated through the
performance standards outlined in §
151.30 of this chapter to promote sensitive site design and to mitigate
external site impacts.
   (B)   Permitted uses and structures. Within the I District no structure or
land may be used except for the following uses occurring within an enclosed
building:
      (1)   Warehouse
      (2)   Storage
      (3)   Manufacturing
      (4)   Processing
      (5)   Office
      (6)   Wholesale
      (7)   Research
      (8)   Government buildings
      (9)   Other such industrial uses which in the determination of the City
Council and as formally documented will be compatible and will not be
detrimental to uses allowed in this or contiguous districts.
   (C)   Accessory structures and uses. Within the I District the following
accessory uses are permitted provided they are subordinate to and associated
with a permitted use:
      (1)   Living quarters for security personnel, provided they are located
within the principal structure;
      (2)   Overnight outside storage of vehicles, provided the vehicles are
associated with the business and are screened from view from residential
properties or public views;
      (3)   Outside storage, including fuel storage, provided it is screened
from general public view;
      (4)   Retail or service uses not exceeding 25% of the gross floor area of
the principal structure;
      (5)   Other uses customarily associated with but subordinate to a
permitted use, as determined by the city.
      (6)   Solar panels and equipment, satellite dishes and-antennas.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Within the I District no land or structure may be
used for the following except by conditional use permit and in conformance with
the performance standards contained in §
151.30 of this ordinance:
      (1)   Retail, or service uses occupying between 25% and 50% of the gross
area of the principal structure.
      (2)   Wind energy conversion systems or windmills.
   (E)   District standards. No building or land in the I District shall be
used except in conformance with the following:
      (1)   Building height. Maximum of 45 feet or three stories, whichever is
less;
      (2)   Front yard setback. Minimum of 35 feet from local and neighborhood
collector streets as identified in the comprehensive plan, if any, or the
zoning map if no comprehensive plan is in existence; or a minimum of 50 feet
from railroad lines and from major collector or arterial roadways as designated
in the comprehensive plan if any, or the zoning map if no comprehensive plan is
in existence;
      (3)   Side and rear yard setbacks. Minimum setbacks shall be in
accordance with the following when measured from land designated accordingly in
the comprehensive plan if any, or the zoning map if no comprehensive plan is in
existence:
         (a)   70 feet from R-1 and R-2 residential uses;
         (b)   30 feet from C-1 and C-2 commercial business uses; and
         (c)   20 feet from I District uses.
      (4)   Lot coverage. Maximum lot coverage shall be 85% and shall be
calculated to include building footprints; parking areas; driveways; loading,
storage and trash areas and other areas covered by any impervious surface;
      (5)   Access: from a collector or arterial roadway as designated in the
comprehensive plan, if any, or a street specifically designed to accommodate
industrial traffic;
      (6)   Trash enclosures or accessory buildings not to exceed 600 square
feet in size shall be located behind the front building line of the principal
building and not in any required set back;
      (7)   Parking shall be regulated pursuant to §§
151.35 through
151.39; and
      (8)   Performance standards shall be regulated pursuant to §
151.30.
   (F)   Conditional use permit standards for the Industrial District.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the intent of the city in establishing general and
specific criteria for conditional uses that such uses be subject to careful
evaluation to ensure that their location, size and design are consistent with
the standards, purposes and procedures of this chapter and the comprehensive
plan. The Planning Commission, if any, may recommend and the City Council may
impose conditions on such uses in order to ensure compliance or to effect the
purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   General standards. No conditional use permit shall be granted
unless the City Council determines that all of the following standards will be
met:
         (a)   The use is consistent with the intent of this chapter;
         (b)   The use is consistent with the goals, policies and objectives of
the comprehensive plan, if any;
         (c)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on governmental
facilities, utilities, services or existing or proposed improvements;
         (d)   The use is in compliance with the performance standards
specified in §
151.30, of this chapter; and
         (e)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on the public
health, safety or welfare.
      (3)   In addition to the standards specified in division (2), no
conditional use permit shall be granted unless the City Council determines that
each of the following specific standards will be met.
         (a)   Retail or service uses occupying between 25% and 50% of the
gross area of the principal structure:
            1.   Shall be no exterior modifications to the building;
            2.   Shall have no outside storage or display and no accessory
structures for retail sales purposes; and
            3.   Shall have sufficient parking to accommodate the additional
retail traffic.
         (b)   Wind energy conversion systems or windmills.
            1.   Set back from the nearest property line a distance equal to
the height of the tower plus one-half the diameter of the rotor;
            2.   Certified by a professional engineer as being of a design
adequate for the atmospheric conditions of the area:
            3.   Equipped with over-speed or similar controls designed to
prevent disintegration of the rotor in high winds;
            4.   Compliance with all building and electrical code requirements
of the city, the noise regulations of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
and the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and
Federal Aviation Administration;
            5.   If the WECS has not been operated for a period of one year or
fails to meet the conditions of this chapter, the City Council may order it
dismantled and the site restored to its original condition; and
            6.   If the owner or person responsible for the WECS does not
maintain it or comply with all requirements of this chapter, the city may take
such steps as are necessary to achieve compliance. The cost of such work,
including administrative costs, shall be a lien against the property and may be
collected as a special assessment. The city may sell salvaged and valuable
materials at public auction on ten days' notice.
§ 151.28 RURAL RESIDENTIAL AND AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Rural Residential and Agriculture District
is to allow suitable areas of the city to be retained and utilized in open
space and/or agricultural uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the Rural
Residential and Agriculture District:
      (1)   Agriculture, including farm dwellings and agricultural related
buildings and structures subject to state pollution control standards, but not
including commercial feedlots or other commercial operations.
      (2)   One-family dwelling units.
      (3)   Public, government owned parks, playgrounds, wild life areas and
game refuges, athletic fields and other public recreational uses.
      (4)   Churches and places of religious assembly, public and private
schools and government-owned buildings and facilities.
      (5)   Manufactured homes which meet the standards set forth in §
151.24.
      (6)   As required by M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 7, as it may be amended from
time to time, a state licensed residential facility serving six or fewer
persons, a licensed day care facility serving 12 or fewer persons, and a group
family day care facility licensed under Minn. Rules, parts 9502.0315 to
9502.0445, as it may be amended from time to time, to serve 14 or fewer
children shall be considered a permitted single-family residential use of
property for the purposes of zoning, except that a residential facility whose
primary purpose is to treat juveniles who have violated criminal statutes
relating to sex offenses or have been adjudicated delinquent on the basis of
conduct in violation of criminal statutes relating to sex offenses shall not be
considered a permitted use.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the
Rural Residential and Agriculture District:
      (1)   Operation and storage of such vehicles, equipment and machinery
which are incidental to permitted or conditional uses allowed in this district.
      (2)   Boat houses, piers and docks serving a single-family residence.
      (3)   Private garages, screen porches, play equipment, solar panel
equipment, satellite dishes and antennae.
      (4)   The renting of rooms by a resident family for lodging purposes
only, and for not more than two rooms in a one-family dwelling.
   (D)   Conditional uses. Within the Rural Residential and Agriculture
District no structure or land shall be used for the following except by
conditional use permit and in conformance with the standards specified in
division (I) of this chapter.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast inns.
      (2)   Wind energy conversion systems or windmills.
      (3)   Home occupations.
   (E)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in the Rural Residential and Agriculture District, subject to
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this
chapter:
      (1)   Lot area. A minimum of two and one-half acres of upland area,
upland being land above the 100-year flood elevation or non-wetland.
      (2)   Lot width. A minimum of 200 feet.
      (3)   Lot depth. A minimum of 300 feet.
      (4)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front yard. A minimum of 40 feet.
         (b)   Side yards. A minimum of 10 feet.
         (c)   Side yards, corner lots. A minimum of 30 feet on side adjacent
to street, but in no case less than the setback of an adjacent lot which has
its front yard on the same street.
         (d)   Rear yard. A minimum of 30 feet.
         (e)   Rear yard, corner lots. A minimum of 15 on side adjacent to
street, but in no case less than the setback of an adjacent lot which has its
rear yard on the same street.
      (5)   Detached accessory building setback requirements. Not less than
five feet from rear yard line and not less than four feet from the side yard
lines in the rear yard. On corner lots not less than 25 feet from the adjacent
street, but in no case less than the setback of an adjacent lot which has its
front yard on the same street.
      (6)   Access. All lots shall front on and have ingress and egress by
means of a public right-of-way.
   (F)   Building requirements; height. No structure shall exceed two stories
or 35 feet, whichever is less.
   (G)   Parking. Refer to §§
151.35 through
151.39.
   (H)   Height limitations shall not apply to water towers, chimneys, flag
poles, antennae, wind energy conversion systems, church spires, church belfries
or church domes not containing habitable space and support towers permitted by
§
150.04.
   (I)   Conditional use permit standards for the Rural Residential and
Agriculture Single-Family Residential District.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the intent of the city in establishing general and
specific criteria for conditional uses that such uses be subject to careful
evaluation to ensure that their location, size and design are consistent with
the standards, purposes and procedures of this chapter and the comprehensive
plan, if one exists. The Planning Commission, if one exists, may recommend and
the City Council may impose conditions on such uses in order to effect the
purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   General standards. No conditional use permit shall be granted
unless the City Council determines that all of the following standards will be
met:
         (a)   The use is consistent with the intent of this chapter;
         (b)   The use is consistent with the goals, policies and objectives of
the comprehensive plan, if one exists;
         (c)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on governmental
facilities, utilities, services or existing or proposed improvements; and
         (d)   The use does not have an undue adverse impact on the public
health, safety or welfare.
      (3)   Specific standards. In addition to the standards specified in
division (2), no conditional use permit shall be granted unless the City
Council determines that all of the specific standards contained in this
division will be met.
         (a)   Home occupations.
            1.   Such occupation shall be carried on in the main building;
            2.   Not more than 25% of the floor space of the residence is used
for this purpose;
            3.   No articles for sale be displayed so as to be visible from the
street;
            4.   The conduct of the home occupation shall result in no change
in the outside appearance of the building or land, or other visible evidence of
the conduct of the home occupation, other than one sign, not exceeding one
square foot in area, non-illuminated and mounted flat against the wall of the
dwelling.
            5.   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in
greater volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood.
            6.   Only limited retail sales activity;
            7.   Maximum of one outside employee;
            8.   Adequate off-street parking based on number of employees and
customers per day;
            9.   Parking area screened from offsite views;
            10.   No outside storage;
            11.   Shall not result in significant levels of noise, air or other
pollution;
            12.   Business hours restricted to no more than 8:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m.; and
            13.   Outside parking of no more than one commercial type vehicle
or vehicle identified for business purposes not to exceed one ton capacity
which is used for both personal and business transportation. The vehicle is to
be owned and registered by an occupant of the property and parked in a screened
location.
         (b)   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS).
            1.   Set back from the nearest property line a distance equal to
the height of the tower plus one-half the diameter of the rotor;
            2.   Certified by a professional engineer as being of a design
adequate for the atmospheric conditions of the area;
            3.   Equipped with over-speed or similar controls designed to
prevent disintegration of the rotor in high winds;
            4.   Compliance with all building and electrical code requirements
of the city, the noise regulations of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
and the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and
Federal Aviation Administration;
            5.   If the WECS has not been operated for a period of one year or
fails to meet the conditions of this chapter, the City Council may order it
dismantled and the site restored to its original condition;
            6.   If the owner or person responsible for the WECS does not
maintain it or comply with all requirements of this chapter, the city may take
such steps as are necessary to achieve compliance. The cost of such work,
including administrative costs, shall be a lien against the property and may be
collected as a special assessment. The city may sell salvaged and valuable
materials at public auction on ten days' notice; and
            7.   The WECS shall meet the performance standards of §
151.30.
         (c)   Bed and breakfast inns.
            1.   The conduct of the bed and breakfast inn shall result in no
change in the outside appearance of the building or land, or other visible
evidence of the conduct of the bed and breakfast inn,
other than one sign, not exceeding one square foot in area, non-illuminated and
mounted flat against the wall of the dwelling.
            2.   No traffic shall be generated by such bed and-breakfast inn in
greater volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 151.30 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of performance standards is to establish specific
and quantifiable limitations on identified types of pollution and other
activities which have a high nuisance potential. The performance standards
apply in all zoning districts unless specifically stated to the contrary.
   (B)   Performance Standards Regulating Exterior Lighting.
      (1)   Exterior lighting shall be designed and arranged to limit direct
illumination and glare upon or into any contiguous parcel. Reflected glare or
spill light shall not exceed five-tenths foot-candles as measured on the
property line when abutting any residential parcel and one foot-candle on any
abutting commercial or industrial parcel. Street lights installed in public
right-of-way shall be excepted from these standards.
      (2)   Mitigative measures shall be employed to limit glare and spill
light to protect neighboring parcels and to maintain traffic safety on public
roads. These measures shall include lenses, shields, louvers, prismatic control
devices and limitations on the height and type of fixtures. The city may also
limit the hours of operation of outdoor lighting if it is deemed necessary to
reduce impacts on the surrounding neighborhood.
      (3)   No flickering or flashing lights shall be permitted.
      (4)   Direct, off-site views of the light source shall not be permitted
except for globe and/or ornamental light fixtures approved in conjunction with
a site and building plan. Globe and ornamental fixtures shall only be approved
when the developer can demonstrate that off-site impacts stemming from direct
views of the bulb are mitigated by the fixture design and/or location.
      (5)   The city may require submission of a light distribution plan if
deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the intent of this chapter.
   (C)   Performance standards regulating noise and vibration.
      (1)   Noises emanating from any use shall be in compliance with and
regulated by the standards of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. Any use
established or remodeled after the effective date of this chapter shall be so
operated as to prevent vibration discernable at any point beyond the lot line
of the site on which such use is located. The city may also limit the hours of
operation of outdoor noise if it is deemed necessary to reduce impacts on the
surrounding neighborhood.
      (2)   Ground vibration and noise caused by motor vehicles, trains,
aircraft operations or temporary construction or demolition shall be exempt
from these regulations. However, if deemed appropriate, the city may establish
limits on the hours of operation of temporary construction or demolition
operation to limit off-site impacts.
   (D)   Performance standards regulating smoke and particulate matter. No use
shall produce or emit smoke, dust or particulate matter exceeding applicable
regulations established by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (E)   Performance standards regulating odor. No use shall produce
unreasonable or disturbing odors beyond the property line exceeding applicable
regulations established by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (F)   Performance standards regulating toxic or noxious matter. No use or
operation shall emit a concentration of toxic or noxious matter across the
property line which exceeds applicable regulations of the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency.
   (G)   Performance Standards Regulating Radiation. No operation shall be
conducted which exceeds the standards established by applicable regulations of
the Minnesota Department of Health.
   (H)   Performance standards regulating heat and humidity. No use shall
produce any unreasonable, disturbing or unnecessary emissions of heat or
humidity beyond the property line which cause material distress, discomfort or
injury to persons of ordinary sensitivity.
   (I)   Performance standards regulating electromagnetic interference. No use
shall produce electromagnetic interference with normal radio or television
reception in any residential district, or exceed applicable standards
established by any applicable federal or state regulations.
   (J)   Performance standards regulating liquid or solid waste. All uses shall
be subject to applicable regulations of the city governing discharge into a
public storm or sanitary sewer, waterway or stream.
§ 151.31 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All open areas of a lot which are not used or improved for required
parking areas, drives or storage shall be landscaped with a combination of
overstory trees, understory trees, shrubs, flowers and ground cover materials.
   (B)   All new landscape trees and shrubs must meet the American Standard for
Nursery Stock and American National Standard relating to planting guidelines,
quality of stock and appropriate sizing of the root ball. Landscape trees must
be balled and burlapped or moved from the growing site by tree spade. Deciduous
trees will be not less than one and one quarter inches but not more than three
inches caliper for balled and burlapped trees, and not less than three inches
but not more than six inches caliper for spade-moved trees. Coniferous trees
will not be less than six feet in height but no more than eight feet for balled
and burlapped trees, and not less than eight feet in height but not more than
fourteen feet for spade-moved coniferous trees. The city may allow larger
balled and burlapped or spade moved trees if these trees are accompanied with a
three year guarantee.
   (C)   All lot areas not covered by buildings, sidewalks, parking lots,
driveways, patios or similar hard surface materials shall be covered with sod
or an equivalent ground cover approved by the city. This requirement shall not
apply to site areas retained in a natural state.
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.35 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the off-street parking regulations is to alleviate or prevent
congestion of the public right-of-way and to promote the safety and general
welfare of the public, by establishing minimum requirements for off-street
parking of motor vehicles in accordance with the utilization of various parcels
of land and structures. No building shall be hereafter erected, substantially
altered, or its use changed unless off-street parking spaces have been provided
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.36 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING.
   The number of off-street parking spaces provided shall be at least the
minimum number provided for the following uses:
   (A)   One and two-family dwellings: Two spaces per unit.
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings: Two spaces per unit.
   (C)   Manufactured home park: Two spaces per unit.
   (D)   Theatres, auditoriums, churches and other similar places of assembly:
One space per every four seats.
   (E)   Restaurants, bars and the like: One space for every three seats.
   (F)   Retail stores: One space per every 500 square feet of retail floor
space.
   (G)   Motels, hotels: One space per sleeping room or unit.
   (H)   Service commercial shops, such as auto repair shops, furniture repair
shops, appliance repair shops and the like: One space per every 500 square feet
of gross floor space.
   (I)   Industrial establishments: One space per every two persons of maximum
employment during any work period.
   (J)   Wholesale, warehouses: One space per every employee during any work
period.
   (K)   Uses not mentioned: For any use not specifically mentioned in the
schedule of off-street parking requirements, the number of spaces required
shall be that required for that use in the schedule which is determined by the
City Council to be most similar.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.37 SPECIAL OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Offices outside C-1 District. Adequate off-street parking area shall
be provided for all employees so as to avoid routine usage of the public street
for parking. However, parking will be allowed on the side of the public street
adjacent to the office's property for routine employee parking.
   (B)   Industrial establishments within C-1, C-2 and I Districts. Adequate
off-street parking areas shall be required for all employees so as to avoid
routine usage of a public street for parking, except during the climatic
seasons that result in a deterioration of the available parking area
serviceability to a point that reasonable judgment dictates temporary disuse.
Parking will be allowed on the side of the public street adjacent to the
establishment's property for routine employee parking.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.38 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   Off-street loading spaces. No building shall be hereafter erected,
substantially altered, or its use changed unless loading spaces have been
provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. One off-street
loading space shall be provided and maintained on the same lot for each
commercial and industrial use requiring regular delivery of goods.
   (B)   Improvement and maintenance of off-street parking and loading spaces.
All parking and loading areas shall provide drainage of surface water to
prevent drainage of such water on the adjacent properties or walkways. The
owner of any parking or loading area shall maintain the area in good condition.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.39 PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   No motor vehicle or trailer without current license plates shall be parked
or stored on any property in a residential district other than in a completely
enclosed building, or as otherwise provided in this code.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.40 REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Required parking and loading areas and the driveways providing access
to them shall not be used for storage, display, sales, rental or repair of
motor vehicles or other goods or for the storage of inoperable vehicles or
snow.
   (B)   All required parking spaces shall be accessed by adequate maneuvering
space.
§ 151.41 REDUCTIONS ALLOWED.
   If warranted by the unique characteristics and/or documented parking demand
for similar developments, the city may allow a reduction in the number of
parking spaces actually constructed as long as the applicant provides proof of
a future parking plan. The plan must show the location for all minimum required
parking spaces in conformance with all applicable setback requirements. The
city may require installation of the additional parking spaces whenever the
need arises.
PERMITS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR FENCES, WALLS OR HEDGES
§ 151.45 APPLICATION.
   The requirements of this subchapter shall apply to all new or replacement
fences, walls, or shrubbery erected or installed from and after the effective
date of this subchapter, but shall not apply to the mere repair of existing
fences.
§ 151.46 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All fences of more than 30 inches in height shall require a permit.
   (B)   No fence shall contain barbed wire.
   (C)   No fence shall be charged with electric current, except within an
agricultural district.
   (D)   No fence, wall or other obstruction to vision above a height of 30
inches from the established street grades shall be permitted within the
triangular area formed at the intersection of any street right-of- way lines by
a straight line drawn between the right-of-way lines at a distance along each
line of 25 feet from their point of intersection.
   (E)   Fences must be maintained so as not to endanger life or property and
any fence which, through lack of repair, type of construction or otherwise,
that imperils health, life or property or the well-being of a neighborhood
shall be deemed a nuisance.
   (F)   All fences must be located on the private property of the person, firm
or corporation constructing the fence.
   (G)   All fences must comply with all other requirements of law or this code
as it applies to fence installation and materials.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.47 RESIDENTIAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited material. No fence or wall shall be constructed of any
electrically charged element or barbed wire.
   (B)   Approved material. All fences in residential districts shall be
constructed of stone, brick, finished wood, chained link or vinyl. The finished
side of the fence, or that side of the fence without exposed support or posts,
shall face the neighboring property or streets.
   (C)   Side and rear yard requirements. No fence or wall located in a side or
a rear yard shall be of height exceeding four feet, measured from its top edge
to the ground at any point.
   (D)   Front yards. No fence or wall shall be located in a front yard.
   (E)   Maintenance. Every fence or wall shall be maintained in a good and
safe condition at all times. Every damaged or missing element of any fence or
wall shall be prepared or replaced immediately.
   (F)   Setbacks. No fence may be located less than six inches from a property
line. No fence, wall, hedge or other screening device shall be permitted to
encroach on any public right-of-way.
Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.48 VARIANCE.
   Any deviation from the provisions of this subchapter shall require a
variance. If a variance is requested, the variance shall be considered in
accordance with the zoning variance procedures and fees for this variance will
be in accordance with the zoning variance fee.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.49 CONSISTENCY WITH STATE LAW.
   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the provisions of
M.S. § 15.99 as it may be amended from time to time, and the following sections
shall govern the process for making decisions under this chapter. To the extent
to which these sections conflict with the provisions of M.S. § 15.99, as it may
be amended from time to time, the provisions of that statute shall apply.
§ 151.50 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, all
applications for any site plan, conditional use permit, land use permit,
variance, or for any other city approval required by this chapter, or to amend
this chapter, shall be made in writing on a form provided by the city, if the
city has a form, to the City Clerk or other person appointed by the City
Council to administer this chapter. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to
reject in writing any incomplete application within 15 business days of receipt
if the application is incomplete, stating the reasons for its rejection,
including what information is missing. This rejection shall be sent by first-
class mail to the applicant. Every application shall contain the legal
description of the property and a statement of the specific permit or action
being sought. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the city from
requesting additional information from the applicant upon which to base a
decision.
   (B)   As authorized by M.S. § 462.353, as it may be amended from time to
time, if a dispute arises over a specific fee imposed by the city, the amount
of the fee must be deposited and held in escrow, and the person aggrieved by
the fee may appeal to district court, as provided by M.S. § 462.361, as it may
be amended from time to time. The application shall proceed as if the fee had
been paid, pending a decision of the court.
§ 151.51 PUBLIC NOTICE AND HEARINGS.
   As required by M.S. § 462.357 and M.S. § 462.3595 a public hearing shall be
held by the City Council or the Planning Commission, if a Planning Commission
exists in the city, before any conditional use permit, variance, or zoning
amendment may be granted. A notice of the time, place and purpose of the
hearing shall be published in the official newspaper of the city at least ten
days prior to the day of the hearing. In the case of an amendment to the zoning
code which involves changes in district boundaries affecting an area of five
acres or less, and in the case of an application for a conditional use permit
or a variance, a similar notice shall be mailed at least ten days before the
day of the hearing to each owner of affected property and property situated
wholly or partly within 350 feet of the property to which the zoning code
amendment, conditional use or variance relates. The applicant shall provide a
list of the owners of affected property and property situated wholly or partly
within 350 feet of the property to which the hearing relates. The Clerk or
other person appointed by the City Council to administer this chapter may use
any appropriate records to determine the names and addresses of owners. A copy
of the notice and a list of the owners and addresses to which the notice was
sent shall be attested to by the Clerk or other person appointed by the City
Council to administer this chapter and shall be made a part of the records of
the proceedings. The failure to give mailed notice to individual property
owners, or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided
a bona fide attempt to comply with the mailed notice requirements has been
made.
§ 151.52 FINAL ACTIONS.
   As required by M.S. § 15.99 as it may be amended from time to time, commonly
called the 60-day rule, all approvals and denials of applications for a zoning
amendment, site plan, conditional use permit, land use permit, variance or any
other application which requires a city approval under this chapter must be
made within the timeline and following the process of M.S. § 15.99. Failure to
follow the requirements of the statute may result in automatic approval of
applications.
§ 151.53 NOTICE OF DECISION.
   As required by M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time,
commonly called the 60-day rule, notice of approvals and denials of
applications for a zoning amendment, site plan, conditional use permit, land
use permit, variance or any other application which requires a city approval
under this chapter must be provided within the timeline and following the
process of M.S. § 15.99. Failure to follow the requirements of the statute may
result in automatic approval of applications.
§ 151.54 LAND USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No structure or fence subject to §
151.46 shall be constructed until a land use permit has been obtained from the
City Clerk or other person appointed by the City Council to administer this
chapter. The application shall contain a plan showing the location on the
structure or fence on the property that demonstrates that all requirements of
this code will be met. The application shall also contain the plans for the
structure to be built that demonstrates that the structure will meet all of the
standards established by this zoning code. If an application requires a zoning
amendment, conditional use permit or variance, no land use permit shall be
issued by the Clerk or other person appointed by the City Council to administer
this chapter until any application for a zoning amendment, conditional use
permit or variance has been acted upon by the City Council. A decision by the
Clerk or other person appointed by the City Council to administer this chapter
not to issue a land use permit may be appealed to the Board of Appeals and
Adjustments as provided for in §
151.60. No residential contractor who is required to be licensed by the state,
and no person employing a residential contractor who is required to be
licensed, shall be issued a land use permit unless that contractor is licensed.
Any person applying for a permit who is required to have a state license, but
who does not have a state license, shall be reported to the State Commissioner
of Commerce.
§ 151.55 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.3595, as it may be amended from time to time,
conditional uses may be approved by the City Council by a showing by the
applicant that the standards and criteria stated in this zoning code, and any
conditions imposed by the City Council, will be satisfied. A public hearing on
the granting of a conditional use permit shall be held in the manner provided
in §
151.51. A conditional use permit shall remain in effect as long as the
conditions agreed upon are observed, but the Council may enact or amend the
zoning code to change the status of conditional uses. A conditional use permit
shall not become effective until a certified copy is filed by the applicant
with the County Recorder, which shall include the legal description of the
property included.
§ 151.56 BOARD OF APPEALS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   The City Council shall be the Board of Appeals and Adjustments for this
city, and have the powers granted under M.S. §§ 462.357, Subd. 6 and 462.359,
Subd. 4, as they may be amended from time to time.
§ 151.57 VARIANCES.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time,
the City Council, acting as a Board of Appeals and Adjustments, may issue
variances from the provisions of this zoning code. A variance is a modification
or variation of the provisions of this zoning code as applied to a specific
piece of property. A variance from the literal provisions of this zoning code
may be granted by the Board of Appeals and Adjustments only when the variance
is in harmony with the general purposes and intent of the zoning code and the
variance is consistent with the comprehensive plan, if the city has adopted
one. A variance may be granted when the applicant for the variance establishes
that there are PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES in complying with the zoning ordinance.
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES as used in connection with granting a variance, means
the property owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable manner not
permitted by the zoning code; the plight of the landowner is due to
circumstances unique to the property not created by the landowner; and the
variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the locality.
Economic considerations alone do not constitute practical difficulties.
Practical difficulties include, but are not limited to, inadequate access to
direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
   Variances shall be granted for earth sheltered construction as defined in
M.S. § 216C.06, Subd. 14, as it may be amended from time to time, when in
harmony with this zoning code. The Board of Appeals and Adjustments may not
permit as a variance any use that is not allowed under this zoning code for
property in the zone where the affected person's land is located. The Board of
Appeals and Adjustments may permit as a variance the temporary use of a one-
family dwelling as a two-family dwelling. The Board of Appeals and Adjustments
may impose conditions in the granting of variances to ensure compliance and to
protect adjacent properties. A condition must be directly related to and must
bear rough proportionality to the impact created by the variance. The variance
shall not become effective until a certified copy is filed by the applicant
with the County Recorder, which shall include the legal description of the
property included.
§ 151.58 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   As required by M.S. § 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time,
any nonconformity, including the lawful use or occupation of land or premises
existing at the time of the adoption of these zoning regulations, may be
continued, including through repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance or
improvement, but not including expansion, unless the nonconformity or occupancy
is discontinued for a period of more than one year, or any nonconforming use is
destroyed by fire or other peril to the extent of greater than 50% of its
market value, and no building permit has been applied for within 180 days of
when the property is damaged. In this case, the City Council may impose
reasonable conditions upon a building permit in order to mitigate any newly
created impact on adjacent property. A subsequent use or occupancy of the land
or premises shall be a conforming use or occupancy.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A), the city may regulate the repair,
replacement, maintenance, improvement, or expansion of nonconforming uses and
structures in floodplain areas to the extent necessary to maintain eligibility
in the National Flood Insurance Program and not increase flood damage potential
or increase the degree of obstruction of flood flows in the floodway.
   (C)   Nonconforming shoreland lots of record are subject to the provisions
of M.S. § 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 151.59 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The clerk, or other person appointed by the City Council, may inspect
any property that is the subject of any application under this chapter, with
either the permission of the owner, resident or other person in control of the
property, or after first obtaining an administrative search warrant as provided
for under §
10.20.
   (B)   An amendment to this zoning code may be initiated by the City Council
or by petition of affected property owners. The requirements for public notice
and hearing contained in §
151.51 shall be followed. The zoning code may be amended by a majority vote of
all of the members of the City Council. The adoption of an amendment which
changes all or part of the existing classification of a zoning district from
residential to either commercial or industrial requires a two-thirds majority
vote of all members of the City Council.
§ 151.60 APPEALS.
   Appeals to the City Council acting as the Board of Appeals and Adjustments
may be taken by any affected person where it is alleged that there is an error
in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
officer of the city in the enforcement of the zoning code. No mailed or
published notice of the hearing on the appeal is required, but a public hearing
shall be held on each appeal.
§ 151.61 RECORD OF DECISIONS.
   The Council may provide that a record be made of its proceedings concerning
its actions on any application for a permit, zoning ordinance amendment, or
appeal. This record may include the minutes of the meeting, the findings of the
Council and the action taken.
§ 151.62 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The provisions of Minnesota Basic Code of Ordinances §§
31.45 to
31.48 are inoperable until the Council appoints a Planning Commission. Nothing
in those provisions requires the Council to appoint a Planning Commission.
§ 151.63 FEES.
   As provided by M.S. § 462.353, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to
time, fees may be established as follows:
   (A)   The Council may in a separate ordinance, or in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges, prescribe fees sufficient to defray the costs
incurred in reviewing, investigating, and administering applications for an
amendment to the provisions of this chapter and to all official maps, and
applications for a permit, a variance or for some other approval required under
this chapter.
   (B)   These fees must be fair, reasonable and proportionate to the actual
cost of the service for which the fee is imposed. The city shall adopt
management and accounting procedures to ensure that fees are maintained and
used only for the purpose for which they are collected.
   (C)   If a dispute arises over a specific fee imposed by a city, the amount
of the fee must be deposited and held in escrow, and the person aggrieved by
the fee may appeal to district court as provided by M.S. § 462.361, as it may
be amended from time to time. The application shall proceed as if the fee had
been paid, pending a decision by the court.
§ 151.64 CERTIFICATION OF TAXES PAID.
   Prior to approving an application for any city land use permit, the
applicant shall provide certification to the city that there are no delinquent
property taxes, special assessments, unpaid utility charges certified for
payment as taxes, interest, or city utility fees due upon the parcel of land to
which the land use permit relates.
§ 151.99 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Council may direct the Clerk or other person appointed by the
City Council to administer this chapter to send a notice of any violation. When
so directed, a notice of a violation shall be mailed by the Clerk or other
person appointed by the City Council to administer this chapter to any person
who, in the opinion of the Clerk or other person appointed by the City Council
to administer this chapter, is in violation of the provisions of the zoning
code. The notice shall state the nature of the violation and the penalty for
the violation. A person who is issued a notice of violation may appeal the
issuance to the City Council under the provisions of §
151.60.
   (B)   If the person to whom the notice of violation is directed fails to
comply with the applicable provisions of the zoning code, that person is guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided by §
10.99.
   (C)   Each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
   (D)   The city may also enforce any provision of this zoning code by
mandamus, injunction, or any other appropriate remedy in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (E)   A person who knowingly makes or submits a false statement or document
in connection with an application or procedure required by this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided by §
10.99.
   (F)   A person who violates, fails to comply with or assists, directs or
permits the violation of a performance standards required by §
151.30 must reimburse the city or its agent for the actual costs of the tests,
measurements or other procedures necessary to demonstrate that violation.
   (G)   A violation of this chapter or a condition imposed under this chapter
is a public nuisance. The public nuisance may be abated in accordance with
Chapter 92.
   (H)   No section or part of this chapter designating the duties of an
official, employee or appointee of the city may be construed to make that
official, employee or appointee liable for the penalty provided by the city
ordinances for violation of this chapter.
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Legal authority
   
152.03   Compliance
   
152.04   Savings clause
   
152.05   Exemptions
   
152.06   Definitions
   
152.07   Platting procedures
   
152.08   Platting presentation requirements
   
152.09   Plat design standards
   
152.10   Required improvements
   
152.105   Dedication requirements
   
152.1051   Protected areas and tree preservation
   
152.11   Metes and bounds standards
   
152.12   Administration
   
152.13   Fees
 
   
152.99   Enforcement and penalties
   
Appendix I:   Preliminary Title Opinion
   
Appendix II:   Final Title Opinion
   
Appendix III:   Minimum Road Standards
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In order to integrate new subdivisions with the development objectives
of the city and to contribute to an attractive, stable and wholesome
environment, adequate public services and an integrated safe road and highway
system, the subdividing of land in the city shall be required. The provisions
of this chapter shall not be in effect until the provisions of
Chapter 151, Zoning, become effective, as provided in §§
151.01 (B) and
151.05. If the city has in effect as of the effective date of this chapter, any
ordinances regulating the subdivision of land within shorelands or floodplains,
the provisions of those ordinances shall supersede the provisions of this
chapter within the areas regulated. The provisions of this chapter shall not be
in effect until a certified copy of this chapter is filed with the County
Recorder as required by M.S. § 462.36, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Minimum design features. The design features set forth in this chapter
are minimum requirements. The city may impose additional or more stringent
requirements concerning lot size, streets and overall design as deemed
appropriate considering the property being subdivided.
   (C)   Zoning ordinance and zoning map consistency. Subdivisions and
preliminary or final plats may only be approved if they are consistent with the
city’s zoning ordinance and official zoning maps, if any.
§ 152.02 LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, as may be amended from
time to time.
§ 152.03 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Any subdivision creating parcels, tracts, or lots which results in one
or more parcels, tracts or lots of less than five acres shall be platted,
except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 505 shall prevail over any inconsistent
provisions in this chapter.
   (C)   No conveyance other than those described in division (A) above, shall
be recorded unless it meets the requirements of §
152.11 herein.
   (D)   No conveyance or other document creating a subdivision of any real
property other than by a duly approved plat, shall be recorded unless
accompanied by a registered surveyor’s drawing for recording. The surveyor’s
drawing shall accurately illustrate the subdivider’s entire lot, parcel or
tract which is subdivided by the conveyance or other document, and shall
illustrate the location of any wetlands, lakes, rivers, streams or other public
waters on that property. No conveyance or other document shall be recorded
unless accompanied by this surveyor’s drawing.
   (E)   Any surveyor performing a survey in the city shall file a copy of that
survey with the County Recorder and the Clerk.
   (F)   No deed or other document purporting to subdivide property shall be
recorded or certified for recording by the County Auditor, County Treasurer or
County Recorder unless it meets the requirements set forth above.
§ 152.04 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   All plats approved under this chapter are approved for city purposes only
and shall not release the subdivider from any liability or obligation imposed
by Minnesota Statutes or Federal Law. In the event any provision of this
chapter shall be found contrary to law by a Court of competent jurisdiction
from whose final judgment no appeal has been taken, such provision shall be
considered void. All other provisions of this chapter shall continue in full
force and effect as though the voided provision had never existed.
§ 152.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The division of a surveyed lot, parcel or tract for the purpose of
attachment to contiguous lots where no residual plot or lot or real property is
left unattached is exempted from the provisions of this chapter, as are
subdivisions conveying property to a public utility for such things as
substations, poles, towers, telephone booths, and the like.
   (B)   If the parcel can be described as a rectangular portion of a parcel of
the government rectangular survey system, a surveyor’s drawing will not be
required.
   (C)   Metes and bounds subdivisions of less than five acres, as provided in
§
152.03(A), that will be permanently attached to an adjacent contiguous parcel
will be exempt from the minimum size requirements provided all other conditions
of this chapter are complied with.
§ 152.06 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, words in the present tense shall include future
tense and words used in the singular number shall include the plural number and
the plural the singular. The word SHALL and MUST are mandatory and not
discretionary. The word MAY is permissive. For the purpose of this chapter
certain terms and words are herein defined as follows:
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The Clerk of the City or another person appointed by
the City Council to administer this chapter.
   ALLEY. Any strip of land publicly or privately owned, less than 33 feet in
width between property lines, set aside for public vehicular access to abutting
property.
   ARTERIAL ROAD or HIGHWAY (PRIMARY). A road or highway of considerable
continuity designed primarily to serve as an interconnection link between
sectors of the city and beyond (such as from within a city to outlying areas).
   BACKLOT. Residential lots without water frontage located in the Shoreland
Area of the city.
   BACKSLOPE.  The portion of the roadway cross-section beginning at the
outside edge of the ditch bottom, sloping upward to a point where the slope
intersects the existing ground line.
   CUL-DE-SAC.  A road having but one end open to traffic and the other end
being permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   DEDICATED STREET.  A roadway designated for public use.
   DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES.  Those goals defined as part of the city’s
comprehensive planning program which indicate how the city wishes to develop
itself in line with orderly and logical direction.
   EASEMENT.  A grant by an owner of land for the specific use of said land by
the public, generally, or to a person or persons.
   FEE SCHEDULE.  A document setting forth the city’s fees for permits,
appeals, variances and subdivision filings as adopted by ordinance by the City
Council as provided in §
152.13.
   FINAL PLAT.  The final map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider’s plan
of subdivision is presented to the City Council for approval and which, if
approved, will be submitted to the County Recorder.
   INSLOPE. The portion of the roadway cross-section beginning at the outside
edge of the roadway shoulder, sloping downward to the inside edge of the ditch
bottom.
   LOT.  A parcel of land designated by plat, metes and bounds, registered land
survey, auditor’s plat or other accepted means and separated from other parcels
or portions by said description for the purpose of sale, lease or separation.
   METES AND BOUNDS.  A description of real property which identifies a parcel
of land by its shapes and boundaries, starting at a known point and describing
the bearing and distances of lines forming the boundaries of the property or
delineating a fractional portion of a section, lot or area by described lines
or portions thereof.
   OWNER.  Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under this chapter.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT.  The preliminary map drawing or chart indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission,
if the city has a Planning Commission, and City Council for their
consideration.
   PUBLIC ROAD.  A particularly described and identified right-of-way, at least
33 feet in width, dedicated to public use for road or highway purposes.
   SERVICE ROAD.  A public road having a traveled surface of at least 24 feet
in width lying parallel and adjacent to an ARTERIAL ROAD or HIGHWAY and which
provides access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
   STRUCTURE.  Any building or appurtenance, including but not limited to,
vision obstructing fences, decks, retaining walls, satellite dishes, except
aerial or underground utility lines, such as sewer, electric, telephone,
telegraph, gas lines, tower poles and other supporting facilities.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person commencing proceedings under this chapter to affect a
subdivision of land for himself/herself or for another.
   SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land which is divided.
§ 152.07 PLATTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Generally.  The following procedures shall be followed in the
administration of this section and no real property within the jurisdiction of
this section shall be subdivided and offered for sale or a plat recorded until
a pre-application meeting has been held, a preliminary plat has been reviewed
and approved and until a final plat has been reviewed and approved as set forth
in the procedures provided herein.
   (B)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to the submission of any plat for
consideration by the Planning Commission, if the city has a Planning
Commission, under the provisions of this chapter, the subdivider may meet with
the Administrative Officers to introduce himself or herself as a potential
subdivider and learn the relevant requirements of the city's code.
   (C)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   Submission of plat.  The subdivider shall submit to the
Administrative Officer ten copies of a preliminary plat of his/her proposed
subdivision, the requirements of which are set forth in this chapter. They
shall be filed at least 30 days prior to a regularly scheduled Planning
Commission meeting, if the city has a Planning Commission, or a Council
meeting, and shall be accompanied by the fees set forth in the fee schedule.
      (2)   Notice procedure. Notice of the public hearing at which the
Planning Commission, if the city has a Planning Commission, will consider the
preliminary plat shall be made by the Administrative Officer pursuant to M.S. §
462.358, Subd. 3b, as it may be amended from time to time. The owner or
subdivider shall also be notified as to the time and place of the public
hearing. As required by M.S. § 505.03, as it may be amended from time to time,
at least 30 days prior to taking final action on a preliminary plat, the
proposed preliminary plat must be presented by the Administrative Officer to
the Commissioner of Transportation for review if the plat includes or borders
on a trunk highway or state rail bank property. Within five days after
receiving a preliminary plat that includes or borders on an existing or
proposed county road or state rail bank property, the Administrative Officer
must submit it to the County Engineer for review. The Commissioner of
Transportation and the County Engineer must report to the city within 30 days
with any comments and recommendations they may have. No preliminary plat may be
approved by the city until these comments and recommendations are received and
considered. Within ten days after approval of the preliminary plat, notice must
be sent to the Commissioner and the County Board explaining how their comments
and recommendations have been met.
      (3)   Public hearing. At the public hearing set for consideration of the
preliminary plat, the Planning Commission, if the city has a Planning
Commission, or the City Council shall consider comments to the notice of plat,
and it shall also review the preliminary plat from the standpoint of
environmental impact, compatibility with surrounding area, suitability of area
for subdividing, public health and welfare, crowding potential, the
compatibility with the city Comprehensive Plan and overall city planning.
      (4)   Planning Commission action. At the conclusion of the public hearing
set forth in the preceding division, the Planning Commission, if the city has a
Planning Commission, shall either recommend approval, conditional approval or
denial of the preliminary plat. The Planning Commission may also table the
preliminary plat for future consideration. The Planning Commission shall not
recommend approval of a preliminary plat unless the presentation requirements
set forth in §
152.08 have all been met. No lot on the preliminary plat shall be recommended
for approval if, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, a lot does not have
dedicated road access, an adequate building site, or sufficient area for an on-
site individual sewage treatment system in areas where public services are not
available, meeting the requirements of all rules and regulations in this
chapter and the code of the city. The action of the Planning Commission shall
be stated in writing setting forth the conditions of approval, reasons for
approval or the reasons for denial. The Planning Commission’s recommendation
shall then be submitted to the City Council.
      (5)   City Council action.  The City Council shall consider the Planning
Commission’s action, if the city has a Planning Commission, at their next
regularly scheduled meeting, and shall either approve, approve with conditions,
deny or table for future consideration the application. As required by M.S.§
462.358, Subd. 3b, as it may be amended from time to time, the Council must
either approve or deny the application for a preliminary plat within 120 days
after the application has been submitted, unless an extension of time has been
agreed to in writing by the subdivider. The 120-day period does not begin to
run until the application contains all of the information required by §§
152.08(B) and
152.09. Failure to comply with the time limits for approval in M.S. § 462.358,
Subd. 3b, as it may be amended from time to time, may result in automatic
approval of a preliminary plat. The Council shall not approve a preliminary
plat unless the presentation requirements set forth in §
152.08 have all been met. No lot on the preliminary plat shall be approved if,
in the opinion of the Council, a lot does not have dedicated road access, an
adequate building site, or sufficient area for an on-site individual sewage
treatment system in areas where public services are not available, meeting the
requirements of all rules and regulations in this chapter and the code of the
city. The action of the Council shall be stated in writing, setting forth the
conditions of approval, reasons for approval or the reasons for denial.
Approval shall mean the acceptance of the design as a basis for preparation of
the final plat, and the submission of such final plat for approval. Approval by
the City Council of all engineering proposals presented in the preliminary plat
which pertain to such things as water supply, sewage disposal, storm drainage,
gas and electric service, road gradients and widths and the surface of roads is
required prior to the approval of the final plat. The Council may, after
notifying the subdivider, employ qualified persons to check and verify each
proposal, the costs of such services shall be paid by the subdivider.
   (D)   Final plat.
      (1)   Filing of the final plat.  
         (a)   The owner or subdivider shall file with the Administrative
Officer within one year of the date of the approval of the preliminary plat the
final plat which shall substantially conform to the preliminary plat as
approved (see § 152.08(C) for filing document requirements) and all applicable
city regulations and ordinances, state and federal rules, regulations and laws.
         (b)   Final plat approval shall not be granted to any plat which is
not filed within the time herein specified, unless an extension is requested in
writing and for good cause, granted by the City Council. The final plat shall
be presented to the City Council at a scheduled meeting which is at least two
weeks after the date of filing with the Administrative Officer.
      (2)   Contents. The subdivider may file a final plat limited to such
portion of the preliminary plat which the subdivider proposed to record and
develop at one time, provided that such portion must conform to all
requirements of this chapter. Lots which have received preliminary approval but
are not included on the final plat must be considered as a new subdivision.
      (3)   Review.  The Administrative Officer shall check the final plat to
see that it is in substantial conformity with the preliminary plat as approved
by the City Council and that it meets all applicable city regulations and
ordinances, state and federal rules, regulations and laws.
      (4)   City Council action.  Final plat approval shall not be granted
unless all presentation requirements of §
152.08 have been met and the plat conforms to all applicable city regulations
and ordinances, state and federal rules, regulations and laws. The City Council
shall approve, deny or table the final plat, and the Clerk shall notify the
owner or subdivider of the Board’s actions within 60 days of the submittal of
the final plat, as required by M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 3b, as it may be amended
from time to time, unless an extension of time has been agreed to in writing by
the subdivider. Failure to meet the time limit requirements of M.S. § 462.358,
Subd. 3b, as it may be amended from time to time, may result in automatic
approval of the final plat. The final plat, if approved, shall then be recorded
with the County Recorder by the subdivider. If any irregularity prevents
recording of the final plat, the County Auditor shall notify the owner or
subdivider. Any approval of the final plat by the Council shall be null and
void if the plat is not recorded with the County Recorder within 90 days after
the date of approval unless application for an extension of time is made, in
writing, during said 90-day period, to the City Council and for good cause
granted by the Council.
§ 152.08 PLATTING PRESENTATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot suitability. Each lot created through subdivision must be suitable
in its natural state for the proposed use with minimal alteration. Suitability
analysis by the city shall consider susceptibility to flooding, existence of
wetlands, soil and rock formations with severe limitations for development,
severe erosion potential, steep topography, inadequate water supply or sewage
treatment capabilities, near-shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-
based recreation, important fish and wildlife habitat, presence of significant
historic sites or any other feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to
the health, safety or welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision
or of the community.
   (B)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   Preliminary plat must be prepared by a Minnesota Registered Land
Surveyor and certified as such. Plats must conform to the technical
requirements of M.S. § 505.021, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Scale: 1 inch equals 100 feet, if possible, but not smaller than 1
inch equals 200 feet.
      (3)   Identification and description:
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision, which name shall not duplicate or
closely resemble the name of any plat previously recorded in the city;
         (b)   Location by section, township, range or by other identifying
description;
         (c)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, surveyor and
designer of the plan;
         (d)   Graphic scale;
         (e)   North point;
         (f)   Date of preparation; and
         (g)   A dedication statement as required by M.S. § 505.021, Subd. 2,
as it may be amended from time to time, describing what part of the subdivision
land is dedicated, to whom and for what purpose.
      (4)   Existing conditions in tract and in surrounding area to a distance
of 300 feet:
         (a)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision, clearly outlined and
dimensioned;
         (b)   Total acreage and total water frontage (shoreland areas) and
water boundaries;
         (c)   Platted roads, rights-of-way and utility easements;
         (d)   Boundary lines and ownership of adjoining land;
         (e)   Sewers, water mains or wells, culverts or other underground
facilities;
         (f)   Plans for the provision of potable water, sewage disposal,
drainage and flood control;
         (g)   Existing structures;
         (h)   Summary of soil and vegetation types (terrestrial and aquatic);
         (i)   Lakes, water courses and wetlands and such other information as
soil tests, location of the ordinary high water level and contours at vertical
intervals of not more than ten feet. All elevation data shall be mean sea level
or some other assumed, workable datum;
         (j)   Evidence that the ground water level is at least three feet
below the level of finished grades or plans for resolving any ground water
problems; and
         (k)   All other information required by M.S. § 505.021, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (5)   Subdivision design features.
         (a)   Layout and width of proposed road rights-of-way and utility
easements, showing road names, approximate lot dimensions, parks and other
public areas. All roads must be identified. The road right-of-way layout shall
include all contiguous land owned or controlled by the subdivider.
         (b)   Proposed use of all parcels, and if zoning change is
contemplated proposed rezoning.
         (c)   Preliminary road grades and drainage plans shall be shown on a
copy of the contour map.
         (d)   Statement of proposed protective covenants.
         (e)   Statement of source of water supply.
         (f)   Statement of provisions for sewage treatment. In areas where a
public sewage treatment system is unavailable, a lot must contain sufficient
suitable area for the installation of two standard on-site sewage treatment
systems. Lots that would require use of holding tanks shall not be approved.
         (g)   Dedications. Easement dedications must be provided over natural
drainage or ponding areas for management of stormwater and significant
wetlands. Provisions for surface water drainage and flood control must be
provided.
      (6)   Preliminary Title Opinion. The subdivider shall provide a
Preliminary Title Opinion, prepared by an attorney of the subdivider’s
choosing, in substantial conformity with the form set forth as Appendix I to
this chapter.
      (7)   On-site. Within 14 days of submitting the preliminary plat, the
subdivider must clearly stake and identify the tentative proposed lot corners
and the proposed center line of the road serving the proposed subdivision.
   (C)   Final plat. The final plat shall include the following:
      (1)   Such information as was found necessary for review and requested by
the Planning Commission, if the city has a Planning Commission, or City
Council;
      (2)   (a)   Data requirements as set forth in M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be
amended from time to time; and
         (b)   All interior and exterior boundary lines shall be correctly
designated on the plat and shall show bearings on all straight lines, or angles
at all angle points, and central angle and radii and arc lines for all curves.
Durable iron monuments shall be set at each angle and curve point on the
interior and exterior boundary lines and at all block corners and at all
intermediate points on the block or lot lines indicating a change of direction
in the lines. The plat shall indicate that the monuments have been set;
      (3)   An identification system for all lots and blocks. All lots shall be
numbered consecutively;
      (4)   The area (in square feet) and dimensions of all lots in feet;
      (5)   The subdivider shall submit two hardshells, one transparency copy
and six duplicate copies of the final plat;
      (6)   All signatures on the plat must be in black ink;
      (7)   Certification by a registered land surveyor to the effect that the
plat represents a survey made by him/her and that monuments and markers shown
thereon exist as located and that all dimensional and geodesic details are
correct;
      (8)   Notarized certification by the fee owner, any contract for deed
vendees and by any mortgage holder of record, of the adoption of the plat and
the dedication of roads and other public areas as required by M.S. §
505.021, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (9)   Certification showing that all taxes, special assessments and
utility charges currently due on the property to be subdivided have been paid
in full for the calendar year in which the plat is filed;
      (10)   Form for approval by Registered Land Surveyor:
         I hereby certify that I have reviewed this plat and found it to be in
compliance with the surveying requirements of the Subdivision Control Ordinance
of the City and Minnesota Statutes Ch. 505.
      (11)   The subdivider shall provide the County Auditor’s Office with a
Final Title Opinion prepared by the attorney who prepared the Preliminary Title
Opinion in substantial conformity with the form set forth as Appendix II to
this chapter, within 14 days of the final plat being recorded. The attorney
shall also sign the following statement on the face of the plat prior to
filing:
         I hereby certify that proper evidence of title has been presented to
and examined by me, and I hereby approve this plat as to form and execution.
      (12)   Form for Mortgage Statement:
         I hereby attest to the fact that there are no mortgages, other than
shown, outstanding against any of the property in this subdivision.
Signed_________________________________________   Dated_____________.
                  Subdivider
      (13)   Form for comparison by Administrative Officer:
         Comparison with Preliminary Plat made this______ day
of______,________.
Signed______________________________
      City Administrative Officer
      (14)   Form for approval by City Council:
         Accepted and approved by the City Council of the city of
                    , Minnesota, this__________day of,_____, _____.
Signed______________________________
      Mayor Signed
Signed______________________________
      City Clerk
      (15)   Form for approval by County Treasurer:
         I hereby certify that the taxes for the year__________for the lands
described within are paid.
Signed______________________________ Dated__________
      County Treasurer
      (16)   Form for approval by County Auditor:
         No delinquent taxes and transfer entered. Dated__________
Signed______________________________
      County Auditor Signed
Signed______________________________
      Deputy Auditor
      (17)   Form for approval by County Recorder:
         I hereby certify that the within instrument was filed in this office
for record on the__________day of__________, at__________o’clock_____.M., and
was duly recorded in Book of____________________on page__________.
Signed ______________________________
      County Recorder Signed
Signed ______________________________
      Deputy Recorder
§ 152.09 PLAT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Roads. The design of all roads shall be considered in relation to
existing and planned roads, to reasonable circulation of traffic, topographical
conditions, to run off of storm waters and to the proposed uses of the areas to
be served.
      (1)   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of roads
in new subdivisions shall make provisions for the proper projection of roads.
When a new subdivision adjoins unsubdivided land susceptible of being
subdivided, then the new road shall be carried to the boundaries of such
unsubdivided land. Where new roads extend existing adjoining roads, their
projections shall be at the same or greater width, but in no case, less than
the minimum required width.
      (2)   The minimum road design standards of the city, including road width
and grade standards, shall be observed by the subdivider, as set forth in
Appendix III.
      (3)   Straight segments of at least 50 feet in length shall be introduced
between reverse curves on city streets and alleys.
      (4)   Insofar as practical, road intersections shall be at right angles
and no intersection shall be at an angle of less than 45 degrees. It must be
evidenced that safe and efficient traffic flow is encouraged.
      (5)   Private roads shall not be approved nor shall public improvements
be approved for any previously existing private road.
      (6)   Where a proposed plat is adjacent to a highway, the City Council
may require the subdivider to provide a service road along the right-of-way.
      (7)   The road arrangements shall not be such as to cause hardship to
owners of adjoining property in platting their own land and providing
convenient access to it.
      (8)   At road intersections, curb lines shall be rounded at a radius of
not less than 15 feet.
   (B)   Easements.
      (1)   Utility easements at least ten feet wide shall be provided for
utilities where necessary. They shall be centered on rear and other lot lines
or within alley rights-of-way. They shall have continuity of alignment from
block to block. At deflection points, easements for pole line anchors shall be
provided where necessary.
      (2)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage way,
channel or road, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way substantially with the lines of such
water course, together with such further width or construction or both as will
be adequate for stream channel, but also adjoining areas that have been subject
to flooding in years of heavy runoff.
   (C)   Lots.
      (1)   Where possible, side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight
or radial to curved road lines. Each lot shall front on a public road or
highway. Lots with frontage of two parallel roads shall be permitted only under
unusual circumstances.
      (2)   Lot remnants which are below the minimum lot size must be added to
adjacent or surrounding lots rather than be allowed to remain as an unusable
outlot or parcel unless the owner can show plans consistent with the purpose of
this chapter for the future use of such remnants.
      (3)   Lots must be designed and have adequate size to meet the zoning
requirements of the zoning district in which they are located related to
setbacks, width and required yard sizes. Lots must also be of adequate size to
allow off-street parking, loading areas and such other facilities as are
required by the zoning ordinances of the city. If the city does not have zoning
ordinances in place, or if there are portions of the city not zoned but where
subdivision is occurring, the following minimum lot sizes shall apply:
         (a)   For residential lots intended for single and-two-family
dwellings:
            1.   Width of not less than 80 feet at the right-of-way line of
inside street curvature; and
            2.   Width of not less than 65 feet at the right-of-way line of
outside street curvature (including cul-de-sac).
         (b)   For residential lots intended for multiple family dwelling of
three of more families living independently of one another:
            1.   Width of not less than 130 feet at the right-of-way line of
inside street curvatures;
            2.   Width of not less than 80 feet at the right-of-way line of
outside street curvatures (including cul-de-sac); and
      (4)   All lots must have a minimum of 30 feet in width at the rear lot
line.
      (5)   Lots abutting on a water course, drainage way, channel or stream
shall have an additional depth or width, as required, to assure house sites
that are not subject to flooding.
      (6)   On lots determined to be irregular in shape (e.g., triangular), the
developer shall demonstrate to the city an ability to properly place principal
buildings and accessory structures upon the site which are compatible in size
and character to the surrounding area.
§ 152.10 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   As a condition of approval of a final plat and before the City Council
approves a final plat, the subdivider shall give satisfactory assurance of the
provision of the following requirements:
      (1)   Monuments. Steel monuments shall be placed at all block corners,
angle points, points of curves in roads and at intermediate points as shown on
the final plat. All U.S., state, city or other official benchmarks, monuments
or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in
precise position.
      (2)   Roads. All roads shall be improved in accordance with the road
design standards as specified in
Appendix III.
         (a)   Trees and boulevard sodding shall be planted in conformance with
the standards and specifications as required by the City Council.
         (b)   Street signs of the design approved by City Council shall be
installed at each street intersection.
         (c)   Driveway approaches and sidewalks of a standard design or
pedestrian pathways as may be required by the City Council shall be installed.
         (d)   Street lighting fixtures as may be required by the City Council
shall be installed.
      (3)   Water supply. Wherever connection with a community or public water
system is possible, the public water shall be used. In other case, individual
wells shall be used. Either shall be provided in accordance with state and city
regulations.
      (4)   Sanitary sewer. Wherever trunk line sanitary sewer facilities are
available, the subdivider shall be required to install sanitary sewers and
connect the same to such trunk line sewers. In other cases, individual on-site
sewage treatment systems shall be used. Either shall be provided in accordance
with state and city regulations.
      (5)   Stormwater management.
         (a)   When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter and retain
stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
         (b)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to retain sediment
on the site.
         (c)   When development density, topographic features, and soil runoff
using natural features, and vegetation, various types of constructed facilities
such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, waterways and
ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using surface drainage,
vegetation and infiltration rather than buried pipes and man-made materials and
facilities.
      (6)   Landscaping. All developments shall be landscaped with a
combination of overstory trees, understory trees, shrubs, flowers and ground
cover materials. All areas not covered by buildings, streets, sidewalks,
parking lots, driveways or similar hard surface materials shall be covered with
sod or an equivalent ground cover approved by the city. This requirement shall
not apply to site areas retained in a natural state. All new landscape trees
and shrubs must meet the American Standard for Nursery Stock and American
National Standard relating to planting guidelines, quality of stock and
appropriate sizing of the root ball. Landscape trees must be balled and
burlapped or moved from the growing site by tree spade. Deciduous trees will be
not less than one and one quarter inches but not more than three inches caliper
for balled and burlapped trees, and not less than three inches but not more
than six inches caliper for spade-moved trees. Coniferous trees will not be
less than six feet in height but no more than eight feet for balled and
burlapped trees, and not less than eight feet in height but not more than
fourteen feet for spade-moved coniferous trees. The city may allow larger
balled and burlapped or spade moved trees if these trees are accompanied with a
three year guarantee.
      (7)   Erosion and sediment control. The development shall conform to the
natural limitations presented by topography and soil so as to create the least
potential for soil erosion. If determined necessary by the City Engineer, the
subdivider shall be required to submit an erosion and sediment control plan.
Erosion and sediment control measures shall be consistent with best management
practices (BMPs) for erosion and sedimentation control as specified in the
"Minnesota Stormwater Manual" (MPCA, 2005), as amended, and shall be sufficient
to retain sediment on site. Erosion and sediment controls shall meet the
standards for the general permit authorization to discharge stormwater
associated with construction activity under the national pollutant discharge
elimination system/state disposal system permit program permit MN Rl00001
(NPDES general construction permit) issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency, as amended. Final stabilization of the site must be completed in
accordance with the NPDES construction permit requirements.
   (B)   All required improvements shall be installed by the subdivider except
that the city reserves the right to elect to install all or part of the
improvements required under the provisions of this title pursuant to M.S. Ch
429, as it may be amended from time to time. If the city elects to install the
improvements the city may require the developer to post a cash escrow or letter
of credit guaranteeing payment of the assessments.
   (C)   Satisfactory assurance that all required improvements shall be
provided shall include:
      (1)   Entering into a development contract setting forth the conditions
under which the plat is approved and setting forth required improvements.
      (2)   Furnishing the city financial security in the form of a cash escrow
or letter of credit. Letters of credit must be from a state or federally
chartered bank or savings and loan association, insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, that has an office in the state of Minnesota or a
subsidiary of such bank or savings association with an office in the state of
Minnesota. If the subdivider fails to perform any obligations under the
development contract, the city may apply the security to cure the default.
         (a)    If the subdivider is going to install the public improvements,
the required security shall be the sum of the following fixed or estimated
costs:
            1.   Utilities.
            2.   Streets.
            3.   Streetlights and operating cost for one year (if any are
required).
            4.   Erosion control.
            5.   Engineering, to include developer's design, surveying and
inspection.
            6.   Landscaping (if any is required).
            7.   Storm sewer connection charges.
            8.   Principal amount of special assessments previously levied
against the property together with one year of interest.
            9.   Real estate tax for one year, if there are special
assessments.
            10.   City engineering fees.
            11.   Sanitary sewer area charges (if any are required).
            12.   Lateral sanitary sewer and water main access charges.
            13.   Wetland mitigation (if any is required).
            14.   Custom graded lots (if any is required).
            15.   Removal of buildings and temporary improvements (if any is
required).
            16.   Tree preservation.
            17.   Lot corners/iron monuments.
         (b)   If the city is going to install the public improvements, the
required security shall be the sum of the following fixed or estimated costs:
            1.   Principal amount of special assessments for public
improvements to be installed together with one year of interest.
            2.   Streetlights (if any are required).
            3.   Erosion control.
            4.   Landscaping.
            5.   Storm sewer connection charges.
            6.   Real estate tax for one year.
            7.   Principal amount of special assessments previously levied
against the property together with one year of interest.
      (3)   The city shall require of a subdivider submission of a warranty/
maintenance bond in the amount equal to the original cost of the improvements
or such lesser amount as agreed to by the City Engineer. The required warranty
period for materials and workmanship from the utility contractor installing
public sewer and water mains shall be two years from the date of final
acceptance or one year following final acceptance of the final bituminous
wearing surface as approved by the City Engineer. The required period for sod,
trees and landscaping is one growing season.
   (D)   No final plat shall be approved by the Council without first receiving
a report from the City Engineer that the improvements described therein
together with the agreements and documents required under this section, meet
the requirements of the city.
   (E)   No final plat shall be approved by the Council without first receiving
certification from the City Clerk, Administrator or Finance Officer that all
fees required to be paid to the city in connection with the plat have been paid
or that satisfactory arrangements have been made for payment.
§ 152.105 DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   As a condition of subdivision approval, subdividers shall dedicate a
portion of any proposed subdivision for conservation purposes or for public use
as parks, recreational facilities as defined and outlined in M.S. § 471.191,
playgrounds, trails, wetlands or open space; provided that the city may choose
to accept an equivalent amount in cash for part or all of the portion required
to be dedicated based on the fair market value of the land following the
criteria of M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 2b, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Land shall be reasonably suitable for its intended use and shall be at
a location convenient to the people to be served. Factors used in evaluating
the adequacy of proposed park and recreation areas shall include size, shape,
topography, geology, hydrology, tree cover, access and location. Land with
trash, junk, pollutants, flooding or wetlands and unwanted structures is
generally not acceptable.
   (C)   The Planning Commission, if the city has a Planning Commission, and
the City Council, shall determine the land and/or cash contribution
requirements for proposed subdivisions.
   (D)   Any increase in density of subdivisions shall be reviewed for
reconsideration of park land and/or cash contribution requirements.
   (E)   When a proposed park, playground, recreation area or other public
ground has been indicated in the city's official map or comprehensive plan and
is located in whole or in part within a proposed subdivision, it shall be
designated as such on the plat and shall be conveyed to the city. If the
subdivider elects not to dedicate an area in excess of the land required
hereunder for such proposed public site, the city may consider acquiring the
site through purchase or condemnation.
   (F)   Land area conveyed or dedicated to the city shall not be used in
calculating density requirements of the city zoning ordinance and shall be in
addition to and not in lieu of open space requirements for planned unit
developments.
   (G)   Where private open space for park and recreation purposes is provided
in a proposed subdivision, these areas may be used for credit, at the
discretion of the City Council, against the land or cash dedication requirement
for park and recreation purposes, provided the City Council finds it is in the
public interest to do so.
   (H)   The dedication requirements are presumptively appropriate. A
subdivider may request a deviation from the presumptive requirements based upon
the anticipated impact of that particular subdivision. The request must be made
before final subdivision approval by the city.
   (I)   (1)   In residential subdivisions where a land dedication is required,
the following formula will be used to determine the dedication requirement:
 
Density:       Land Dedication Percentage
Units Per Acre
2.5            –                        4         11%
4+             –                        6         13%
6+             –                        8         15%
8+             –                        10        17%
10+            –                        17% - 20%
 
      (2)   In commercial or industrial subdivisions where a land dedication is
required, the following formula will be used to determine the dedication: 5% of
the gross area of land being platted.
   (J)   In lieu of land dedication the city may require cash fees established
pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 2b, as it may be amended from time to time,
for commercial, industrial, multi-family dwelling units and single-family
dwelling units, in amounts established in a separate ordinance or in the
Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
   (K)   The city may elect to receive a combination of cash, land and
development of the land. The fair market value of the land the city wants and
the value of the development of the land shall be calculated. That amount shall
be subtracted from the cash contribution required by division (J) of this
section. The remainder shall be the cash contribution requirement.
   (L)   Fair market value shall be determined as of the time of final
subdivision approval in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The city and the developer may agree as to the fair market value;
or
      (2)   The fair market value may be based upon a current appraisal
submitted to the city by the subdivider at the subdivider's expense. The
appraisal shall be made by appraisers who are approved members of the SREA or
MAI, or equivalent real estate appraisal societies.
      (3)   If the city disputes such appraisal the city may, at the
subdivider's expense, obtain an appraisal of the property by a qualified real
estate appraiser, which appraisal shall be conclusive evidence of the fair
market value of the land.
   (M)   Planned developments with mixed land uses shall make cash and/or land
contributions in accordance with this section based upon the percentage of land
devoted to the various uses.
   (N)   Cash contributions are to be calculated at the time of final
subdivision approval. The council may require the payment at the time of final
subdivision approval or at a later time under terms agreed upon in the
development agreement. Delayed payment shall include interest at a rate set by
the city.
   (O)   Cash contributions shall be deposited in the park dedication fund and
shall only be used for the acquisition of land for the purposes set forth in
division (A) of this section, and the planning and development of land for such
purposes.
   (P)   Property being subdivided without an increase in the number of lots
shall be exempt from park and trail dedication requirements if similar
requirements were satisfied in conjunction with an earlier subdivision. If the
number of lots is increased, then the dedication shall be based on the
additional lots created.
§ 152.1051 PROTECTED AREAS AND TREE PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Protected areas. Where land proposed for subdivision is deemed
environmentally sensitive by the city due to the existence of wetlands,
drainageways, watercourses, floodable areas, significant trees, steep slopes or
wooded areas, the design of said subdivision shall clearly reflect all
necessary measures to ensure against adverse environmental impacts. Based upon
the necessity to control and maintain certain sensitive areas, the city shall
determine whether said protection will be accomplished through lot enlargement
and redesign or dedication of those sensitive areas in the form of outlots. In
general, measures of protection shall include design solutions that allow for
construction and grading involving a minimum of alteration to sensitive areas.
Such measures, when deemed appropriate by the city, may include, but shall not
be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The establishment of buffers designed consistent with adopted
management plans, if any, easements and/or outlots over wetlands, drainageways
and watercourses as approved by the City Engineer.
      (2)   The implementation of flood control measures, including ponding and
infiltration design standards as specified in adopted management plans, if any,
and approved by the City Engineer.
      (3)   The enlargement of lots or redesign of the subdivision.
      (4)   The submission of a tree preservation plan subject to the approval
of the City Council.
      (5)   The utilization of appropriate erosion control measures subject to
approval by the City Engineer.
      (6)   Soil testing to determine the ability of the proposed subdivision
to support development.
      (7)   The limitation of development on slopes steeper than three to one
(3:1).
      (8)   Structure conformance to the natural limitations presented by the
topography and soil so as to create the least potential of soil erosion, as
determined by the City Engineer.
   (B)   Tree preservation. The following process for preserving significant
trees shall be required of subdividers. Subdividers shall preserve, where
feasible, all healthy trees of significant value even if the trees are less
than six inches in diameter.
      (1)   Definitions. The following words and terms, whenever they occur in
this section, are defined as follows:
         (a)   DIAMETER.  The measurement of a tree's trunk measured four and
one-half feet above the ground.
         (b)   DRIP LINE. The farthest distance away from the trunk of a tree
that rain or dew will fall directly to the ground from the leaves or branches
of the tree or one foot per one inch of diameter, whichever is greater.
         (c)   SIGNIFICANT TREE. A healthy tree measuring six inches in
diameter or greater.
         (d)   TREE CERTIFICATION. A certified inventory of trees on the site
after work is complete listing all trees and their final disposition, which is
signed by a licensed forester or landscape architect.
         (e)   TREE PRESERVATION PLAN. A plan and inventory certified by a
forester or landscape architect indicating all of the significant trees and
their locations in the proposed development or on the lot. The tree
preservation plan shall include the size, species, tag numbers, and location of
all significant trees proposed to be saved and removed on the area of
development, and the measures proposed to protect the significant trees to be
saved.
         (f)   TREE PROTECTION. Snow fencing or polyethylene laminar safety
netting placed at the drip line of the significant trees to be preserved. The
tree protection measures shall be shown on tree preservation plan drawings and
remain in place until all grading and construction activity is terminated.
      (2)   Subdivider responsibilities. Subdividers shall:
         (a)   Prepare a tree preservation plan. Such plan shall be
superimposed on the grading plan, if any.
         (b)   Ensure the tree preservation plan is followed during the plan
development including any mass grading.
      (3)   The tree preservation plan must be certified by a forester or
landscape architect. The forester or landscape architect shall indicate on the
plan the following items:
         (a)   Graded areas and proposed grades.
         (b)   Size, species, tag numbers, and location of all significant
trees.
         (c)   Identification of all significant trees proposed to be saved and
significant trees proposed to be removed.
         (d)   Measures proposed to protect significant trees shall include,
but are not limited to:
            1.   Installation of snow fencing or polyethylene- laminar safety
netting at the drip line.
            2.   Placing fill against the trunk of the tree, on the root crown,
and under the drip line of the tree shall be prohibited.
            3.   Installation of erosion control measures.
            4.   Prevention of change in soil chemistry due to concrete washout
and leakage or spillage of toxic materials such as fuels or paints.
            5.   Pruning of oak trees must not take place from April 15 through
July 1. If wounding of oak trees occurs, a nontoxic tree wound dressing must be
applied immediately. Excavators must have a nontoxic tree wound dressing with
them on the development site.
      (4)   During preliminary plat review, the tree preservation plan will be
reviewed according to the best available layout to preserve significant trees
and the efforts of the subdivider to mitigate damage to significant trees.
      (5)   The subdivider shall provide a financial guarantee as part of the
development contract in an amount necessary to guarantee replacement of all
significant trees which were to have been saved but were actually destroyed or
damaged.
      (6)   After grading has been completed and streets and utilities
installed, the forester or landscape architect shall:
         (a)   Certify in writing to the city the status of all trees indicated
as save trees in the approved plan.
         (b)   Certify in writing to the city whether tree protection measures
were installed.
         (c)   Certify the status of any remove designated trees that were
saved.
      (7)   If a significant tree indicated to be saved on the tree
preservation plan is destroyed or damaged, tree replacement as required by this
chapter will be enforced by the city.
      (8)   The financial security required in division (5) above will be
released upon certification in writing by the forester or landscape architect
indicating the tree protection measures were installed on graded lots and tree
replacement is completed, if necessary;
      (9)   Removal of tree preservation measures shall require written
approval from the City Engineer. Tree preservation measures shall not be
removed from the site until the City Engineer has approved the grading as built
plans for a mass graded site nor prior to the release of financial securities
held by the city.
      (10)   Tree Replacement Policy. Subdividers shall be required to replace
the significant trees which were indicated on the tree preservation plan to be
saved but ultimately were destroyed or damaged. The subdivider and builder
shall be required to replace each of the significant trees destroyed or damaged
with two replacement trees. Replacement trees must consist of nursery stock and
be no less than the following sizes:
         (a)   Deciduous trees. No less than two and one-half-inches in
diameter.
         (b)   Coniferous trees. No less than six feet high.
      (11)   Replacement trees shall be species similar to the trees which were
destroyed or damaged and shall comply with the requirements of §
152.10.
      (12)   Replacement trees shall not be placed on easements or street
rights of way. The city shall determine the locations of tree replacement for
subdivider's tree plans.
§ 152.11 METES AND BOUNDS STANDARDS.
   No subdivision of real property in which the divided tract is described by
metes and bounds shall be permitted, unless all tracts meet the following
standards:
   (A)   Each lot, located in a shoreland area or containing a wetland area
must be a minimum of five acres in size; and all other lots must be a minimum
of two and one-half acres in size;
   (B)   Certification of public road access;
   (C)   All roads must be identified on the surveyor’s drawing;
   (D)   Sufficient suitable area for the installation of two standard on-site
sewage treatment systems;
   (E)   A registered surveyor’s drawing accompanies the document creating the
subdivision for recording, as required by §
152.03(D) above; and
   (F)   The surveyor’s drawing contains the following form for signature by
the property owner: I hereby certify that the subdivided property described in
this survey meets the city requirements for public road access and sewage
treatment systems.
§ 152.12 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Variances from standards. In any case where, upon application of any
subdivider to the Board of Adjustment, it appears by reason of exceptional
circumstances, that the strict enforcement of any provision of the standards
would cause unusual hardship under the circumstances, the Board of Adjustment
may permit a variance therefrom upon such conditions as it may prescribe
consistent with the general purposes of this chapter and the intent of this and
all other applicable State and local regulation.
   (B)   Appeals. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals from
and review any order, requirements, decisions or determinations made by any
city Administrative Officer charged with enforcing any provision of this
chapter.
§ 152.13 FEES.
   As provided by M.S. § 462.353, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to
time, fees may be established as follows:
   (A)   The Council may in a separate ordinance or in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges, adopted pursuant to §
30.11 of this code, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time,
prescribe fees sufficient to defray the costs incurred in reviewing,
investigating and administering applications for a preliminary or final plat,
or an application for some other approval required under this chapter.
   (B)   These fees must be fair, reasonable and proportionate to the actual
cost of the service for which the fee is imposed. The city shall adopt
management and accounting procedures to ensure that fees are maintained and
used only for the purpose for which they are collected.
   (C)   If a dispute arises over a specific fee imposed by a city, the amount
of the fee must be deposited and held in escrow, and the person aggrieved by
the fee may appeal to district court as provided by M.S. § 462.361, as it may
be amended from time to time. The application shall proceed as if the fee had
been paid, pending a decision by the court.
§ 152.99 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Administrative
Officer who is hereby designated the enforcing officer.
   (B)   Any violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. All fines paid for violations shall be credited to the City General
Revenue Fund. Each 24-hour day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (C)   In the event of a violation or threatened violation of this chapter,
the City Council and/or the Administrative Officer, in addition to other
remedies may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain,
correct or abate such violations or threatened violations, and it shall be the
duty of the City Attorney to institute such action. This will include, but not
be limited to, mandamus, injunction, or any other appropriate remedy in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   A person who knowingly makes or submits a false statement or document
in connection with an application or procedure required by this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided by §
10.99.
APPENDIX I: PRELIMINARY TITLE OPINION
City Council of the City of                              
RE:   Plat of________________________________________________________________
      Subdividers____________________________________________________________
Preliminary Opinion
I hereby certify that I have examined the above-described plat including the
signatories thereon and an abstract of title consisting of
entries__________through__________inclusive, last certified by (Abstract Co.)
to the hour of 8:00 a.m. on__________. From such examination I conclude that
good record title in fee simple absolute is in the subdividers’ so as to vest
in the public those right-of-way rights and easement rights as in the plat,
subject to the following:
   1.
   2.
   3.
which shall be cured prior to the recording of the plat. I further agree to
furnish the Final Title Opinion following the recording of the plat as required
by Chapter 152 of the City Code of Ordinances.
Sincerely,
APPENDIX II: FINAL TITLE OPINION
City Council of the City of                              
RE:    Plat of________________________________________________________________
      Subdividers____________________________________________________________
Gentlemen:
Final Opinion
I hereby certify that I have examined all records relating to the above
described plat in the office of the County Recorder from the date of the
abstract of title to__________, the date the plat was recorded. From such
examination I conclude:
   1.   That all defects cited in the Preliminary Opinion have been cured;
   2.   That as of the date of recording, good record title in fee simple
absolute was in the subdividers; and
   3.   That the public is vested with those right-of-way rights and easement
rights as in the plat indicated.
Sincerely,
APPENDIX III: MINIMUM ROAD STANDARDS
1.   All construction of roads dedicated for public use shall be in compliance
with the Minnesota Department of Transportation State Aid Design Standards for
Roads as well as the following minimum standards.
2.   All roads dedicated for public use or for the use of lot owners on a plat
presented for the approval shall have a permanent minimum width of 66 feet
right-of-way (during the road construction period the right-of- way width may
exceed 66 feet to provide for the appropriate backslope). Dead end roads
require a cul-de- sac which has a minimum 120-foot diameter. Alleys require a
minimum width of 20 feet right-of-way.
3.   All dedicated roadways have a roadbed of not less than 32 feet and shall
have a bituminous surface. All cul-de-sacs, regardless of surface type, shall
have a minimum traveled surface diameter of 100 feet.
4.   When necessary for drainage, ditches along the roadbed shall not be less
than two feet deep.
CHAPTER 153: ANTI-BLIGHT REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Findings
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Exceptions
   
153.05   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
153.06   Sign restrictions for sexually oriented businesses
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to control, through zoning regulations,
certain land uses that have a direct and detrimental effect on the character of
the city's residential and commercial neighborhoods. The City Council
specifically recognizes the sanctity and fundamental nature of free speech and
does not intend to regulate or ban speech based on content. This chapter is
intended to supercede the provisions of M.S. § 617.242, as it may be amended
from time to time, and to render M.S. § 617.242 inapplicable as authorized by
the statute.
§ 153.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council makes the following findings regarding the effect sexually-
oriented businesses have on the character of the city's neighborhoods. In
making these findings, the City Council accepts the recommendations and
conclusions of the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group on the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses, dated June 6, 1989, a copy of which
is adopted by reference and included in
Appendix II of Chapter 119 of this code. This
Chapter 153 shall have no force and effect until the City Council accepts these
recommendations by resolution of a majority of its members, using the model
resolution contained in
Appendix I of Chapter 119 of this code.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses have an impact on the neighborhoods
surrounding them which is distinct from the impact caused by other uses.
   (B)   Residential and commercial neighborhoods located within close
proximity to sexually oriented businesses experience the following negative
impacts:
      (1)   Increased crime rates, particularly in sex-related crimes such as
rapes, prostitution, indecent exposure and other lewd and lascivious behavior;
      (2)   Property values which are either diminished or fail to appreciate
at the rate of other comparable properties not located in proximity to sexually
oriented businesses;
      (3)   Increased transiency and decreased stability of ownership;
      (4)   Deteriorated neighborhood appearance from litter and graffiti;
      (5)   Sex-related harassment of residents and customers by motorists and
pedestrians;
      (6)   A perception that the area is “unsafe”; and
      (7)   Difficulty in attracting and retaining customers, employees, and
desirable tenants.
   (C)   The adverse impacts which sexually oriented businesses have on
surrounding areas diminish as the distance from the sexually oriented business
increases.
   (D)   The adverse impacts of sexually oriented businesses are exacerbated
when the uses are located near each other.
   (E)   The presence of liquor establishments in the immediate vicinity of
sexually oriented businesses also compounds the adverse impacts on the
neighborhood.
   (F)   Sexually oriented businesses can exert a dehumanizing influence on
persons attending places of worship, children attending day care centers or
schools, and people using public parks and libraries.
   (G)   Sexually oriented businesses can significantly contribute to the
deterioration of residential neighborhoods and can impair the character and
quality of the residential housing in the area where they are located, thereby
exacerbating the shortage of affordable and habitable housing for city
residents.
   (H)   The concentration of sexually oriented businesses in one area can have
a substantially detrimental effect on that area and on the overall quality of
urban life. A cycle of decay can result from the influx and concentration of
sexually oriented businesses. The presence of such businesses is perceived by
others as an indication that the area is deteriorating and the result can be
devastating: other businesses move out of the vicinity and residents flee from
the area. The resulting decline in real estate values erodes the city's tax
base and contributes to overall urban blight.
   (I)   Land-use regulations are appropriate to minimize the detrimental
effects that sexually oriented businesses have on adjacent land uses.
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms shall have the following meanings when used in
this section, except as provided otherwise in §
153.04:
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   A business that meets any of the following criteria, measured on a
daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly basis:
         (a)   Has more than 25% of its inventory, stock-in-trade, or publicly
displayed merchandise in sexually oriented materials;
         (b)   Devotes more than 25% of its floor area (not including
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business
not open to the public) to sexually oriented materials; or
         (c)   Derives more than 25% of its gross revenues from sexually
oriented materials; or
      (2)   A business that engages for any length of time in a sexually
oriented use as defined in this section, or any other use that has an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED MATERIALS. Visual, printed, or aural materials, and other
objects or devices, which:
      (1)   Contain, depict, simulate, or describe specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas;
      (2)   Are marketed for use in conjunction with, or are primarily used
only with or during, specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Are designed for sexual stimulation.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED USE. Includes any of the following activities and
businesses, even if the activity exists for only a short-time:
      (1)   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business that
provides the service of applying paint, ink or other substance, whether
transparent or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when the person is
nude.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment or business used for the barter,
rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audiotape, videotape, movies, or motion picture film if it meets the
criteria established in the definition of “sexually oriented business,” as
defined in this section.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A business or establishment that provides dancing or
other live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on:
         (a)   The depiction of nudity, specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   The presentation, display, or depiction of matter that seeks to
evoke, arouse, or excite sexual or erotic feelings or desire.
      (4)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A business or establishment that
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (5)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or establishment that
provides the services of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (6)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club that is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (7)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel that presents material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (8)   MASSAGE PARLOR/HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club that
provides massage services distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (9)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business or establishment with
a capacity of less than 50 persons that as a prevailing practice presents on-
premises viewing of movies, motion pictures, or other material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (10)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. A business or establishment that provides
live models who, with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual
gratification, engage in specified sexual activities or display specified
anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted.
      (11)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are used to show images
to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (12)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A motion picture theater with a
capacity of 50 or more persons that as a prevailing practice presents material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
      (13)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. An establishment or business that has a
variety of items for sale if it meets the criteria established in the
definition of “sexually oriented business,” as defined in this section.
      (14)   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna that excludes minors by reason of age, and
that provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation or reducing, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (15)   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, if the building or
portion of a building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service
provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
area, buttock, anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a state of sexual arousal, whether or not
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Actual or simulated: sexual intercourse; oral copulation; anal
intercourse; oral-anal copulation; bestiality; direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals; flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship; the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship; anilingus; coprophagy; coprophilia; cunnilingus; fellatio;
necrophilia; pedophilia; piquerism or zooerastia;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal, or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, or female breasts;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, who
are clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and engaged in the
flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other physical restraint of any
person;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, or vaginal or anal
irrigation.
§ 153.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This section does not regulate the following:
   (A)   Any material with significant literary content or social commentary;
   (B)   A business where sexually oriented materials are sold, bartered,
distributed, leased, furnished, or otherwise provided for off-site use or
entertainment, if (1) the sexually oriented material on each item is blocked
from view by an opaque cover as required under M.S. § 617.293, and (2) each
item is in an area accessible only by an employee of the business;
   (C)   Any person or organization exempted under M.S. § 617.295;
   (D)   Displaying works of art showing specified anatomical areas, so long as
no sexually oriented materials are for sale and the business does not have a
liquor license; and
   (E)   Movies rated G, PG, PG-13, NC-17 or R.
§ 153.05 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A sexually-oriented business may locate only in the C-2 and I zones.
   (B)   No person may operate a sexually oriented business on property, any
part of which is within the area circumscribed by a circle that has a radius of
250 feet from any of the uses listed below. Distances must be measured by
following a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects,
between the closest points on the boundary lines of the property parcels where
the two uses are located. This distance requirement applies to the following
uses:
      (1)   Property used or zoned for residential uses;
      (2)   A day care facility, school, library, park, playground, state or
federal wildlife area or preserve, religious institution or other public
recreational facility;
      (3)   Premises licensed under city code
Chapter 112, Liquor Regulations; and
      (4)   Another sexually-oriented business.
Cross-reference:
   Sexually Oriented Businesses,
Ch. 119
§ 153.06 SIGN RESTRICTIONS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   In order to protect children from exposure to lurid signs and materials, to
avoid the appearance that the windows are boarded up and that the property is
deteriorating, and to preserve the value of property surrounding sexually
oriented businesses, the following sign regulations apply to all sexually
oriented businesses.
   (A)   All signs must be flat wall signs. No signs may be freestanding,
located on the roof or contain any flashing lights, moving elements or
electronically or mechanically changing messages.
   (B)   No merchandise, photos or pictures of the products or entertainment on
the premises may be displayed in or immediately behind window areas or any
other area, if they can be viewed from outside the portion of the building in
which the business is located.
   (C)   Window areas must not be covered or made opaque in any way. No signs
may be placed in a window. A sign no larger than one square foot must be placed
on the main entrance door and must state, “adults only.” The letters of this
message must be a minimum of two inches high. The only other information on
this sign may be the hours of operation.
Cross-reference:
   Sexually Oriented Businesses,
Ch. 119
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor under Minnesota law and is
subject to the penalties and provisions of §
10.99
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Table of Authorities
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
BASIC CODE OF ORDINANCES TABLE OF AUTHORITIES
Basic Code Provision Enabling Authority
Basic Code   Enabling Authority
Provision
Chapter 10:  M.S. §§ 412.221, Subd. 32; 415.02; 415.021; 645.08; 645.11 - 151; 412.231;
General      169.89, Subd. 2; 609.02, Subd. 3, 4a; 609.0332; 609.034; 412.861; 412.871
Provisions
Chapter 30:
General      M.S. §§ 412.191; 13D.04; 412.151; 415.11
Provisions
Chapter 31:
Departments, M.S. §§ 412.111; 462.354; 412.221, Subd. 17
Boards and
Commissions
Chapter 32:
Emergency    M.S. Ch. 12; M.S. §§ 115E.01 - 115E.11; 44 CFR Part 201
Management
Chapter 50:
Garbage and  M.S. §§ 412.221, Subd. 22; 115A.94; M.S. Ch. 443
Rubbish
Chapter 51:
Sewer        M.S. §§ 412.321; 412.221, Subd. 6, 31; M.S. Ch. 444
Regulations
Chapter 52:
Water        M.S. §§ 412.321; 412.221, Subd. 6, 31; M.S. Ch. 444
Regulations
Chapter 53:
Storm Water  M.S. §§ 412.321; M.S. Ch. 444
Drainage
Utility
Chapter 54:
Rates and    M.S. §§ 412.321; M.S. Ch. 444
Charges
Chapter 70:
Traffic      M.S. Ch. 169; M.S. § 169.04; 169.80 - 88
Regulations
Chapter 71:
Parking      M.S. §§ 169.04; 169.041; 169.34; 169.35
Regulations
Chapter 72:  M.S. §§ 84.81 - 89
Snowmobiles
Chapter 73:
Recreational M.S. §§ 169.045; 169.224; 169.225; M.S. Ch. 84
and Other
Vehicles
Chapter 74:
Bicycles,    M.S. §§ 169.222 - 223
Roller
Blades, etc.
Chapter 90:
Abandoned    M.S. § 471.195; M.S. Ch. 168B, MN Rules Ch 7035
Property
Chapter 91:  M.S. §§ 412.221, Subd. 21; 346.155; 347.40 - 56; 609.226; 35.71, Subd. 3;
Animals      347.22; 343.50; 343.29; 347.12, Subd. 2; 343.31
Chapter 92:
Health and   M.S. §§ 412.221, Subd. 23; 561.01; 18.77; 116.082
Safety;
Nuisances
Chapter 93:  M.S. § 412.221, Subd. 6; M.S. Ch. 169; M.S. §§ 237.16; 237.163; 237.79;
Streets and  237.81;238.086; MN Rules Ch.7819
Sidewalks
Chapter 110:
General      See specific sections below; M.S. § 412.221, Subd. 32
Licensing
Provisions
Chapter 111:
Commercial   M.S. § 412.221, Subd. 25
Amusements
Chapter 112:
Liquor       M.S. Ch. 340A
Regulations
Chapter 113:
Peddlers and M.S. §§ 412.221, Subd. 19, 329.11 - 15; 437.02
Solicitors
Chapter 116:
Lawful       M.S. §§ 349.213; 349.16; 349.166; 645.48
Gambling
Chapter 117:
Garage and   M.S. § 412.221, Subd. 32
Rummage
Sales
Chapter 118:
Regulation
of Public    M.S. § 412.221, Subd. 25, 27
Dances and
Special
Events
Chapter 119:
Sexually     M.S. § 412.221, Subd. 26, 32; 617.241; 617.293, Subd. 22
Oriented
Businesses
Chapter 130:
General      M.S. § 412.221, Subd. 23, 24, 32; 145A.05; 624.20
Offenses
Chapter 150:
General      M.S. Ch. 326B; M.S. § 412.221, Subd. 26, 32; 617.241; 617.293, Subd. 22
Provisions
Chapter 151: M.S. Ch.462
Zoning
Chapter 152:
Subdivision  M.S. Ch. 462
Control
Chapter 153:
Anti-Blight  M.S. § 617.293, Subd. 22
Regulations
 
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section                     Code Section
12.25                            32.01
12.25                            32.04
12.37                            32.06
Ch. 13                           30.12
Ch. 13D                          30.01
14.57 - 14.69                    119.13
14.57 - 14.70                    112.36,
                                 112.99
15.054                           90.40
                                 151.49,
15.99                            151.52,
                                 151.53
18.77, Subd. 8                   92.37
18.83, Subd. 2                   92.37
18G.07                           92.02
84.787, Subd. 7                  73.02
84.81 - 84.91                    72.01
84.87, Subd. 3                   72.04
84.872                           72.06
84.92                            73.02
84.92, Subd. 8                   73.02
Ch. 88                           92.59
89.001                           92.02
89.01                            92.02
89.51 - 89.64                    92.02
97A.137                          130.02
103I.301 - 103I.345              52.06
115.01, Subd. 5                  51.001
115.07                           51.001
115A.94                          50.01
115A.9301, Subd. 3               50.08
116.07                           90.25
116.072                          51.037
157.15, Subd. 11                 112.22
157.16                           112.03
157.16, Subd. 3(d)               112.03
160.22                           92.02
161.242                          90.16
168.10                           90.16
168B.011, Subd. 3                92.20
Ch. 168B                         90.15
168B.035                         71.01, 90,16, 90,18
                                 31.05,
168B.035, Subd.2                 71.04,
                                 71.09
                                 70.01,
Ch. 169                          72.01,
                                 73.08
169.01, Subd. 3                  70.09
169.011, Subd. 40a               73.08
169.011, Subd. 42                90.16
                                 70.03,
169.04                           70.04,
                                 70.05
169.045                          73.02
169.045(7)                       73.08
169.215                          70.12
169.2151                         70.11
169.2152                         70.12
169.222                          74.26
169.34, Subd. 2                  71.10
169.522                          73.08
169.69                           70.10
169.693                          70.10
169.801                          70.02
169.84                           70.02
169.86                           70.02
169.862                          70.02
169.865                          70.02
169.87                           70.02
184B.01 - 184B.09                111.06
184B.02                          111.06
184B.03                          111.06
216B.097                         54.04
216C.06, Subd. 14                151.57
Ch. 216D                         93.24
216D.01 - 09                     93.24
237.162                          93.21,
                                 93.29
237.163                          93.29
260.198                          130.99
Ch. 278                          119.13
302A,155                         93.23
326.46, Subd. 2                  52.70
326B.01 - 326B.998               150.01
326B.16                          150.01
326B.46                          52.70
327.31                           150.03,
                                 151.04
Ch. 329                          113.03
Ch. 333                          119.08
                                 112.01,
                                 112.02,
                                 112.20,
Ch. 340A                         112.23,
                                 112.36,
                                 112.99,
                                 118.08
340A.24                          112.22
340A.29                          112.22
340A.28                          112.22
340A.101                         112.03,
                                 112.22
340A.285                         112.22
340A.301, Subd. 6(a)             112.22
340A.301, Subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) 112.22
340A.301, Subd. 6(d)             112.22
340A.301, Subd. 6 and 7          112.22
340A.301, Subd. 6c               112.22
340A.4011, Subd. 1               112.22
340A.404, Subd. 1(b)             112.55
340A.404, Subd. 4(a)             112.22
340A.404, Subd. 4(b)             112.22
340A.404, Subd. 5                112.22
340A.408                         112.23
340A.408, Subd. 2(b)             112.22
340A.408, Subd. 3                112.22
340A.408, Subd. 5                112.23
340A.409                         112.25,
                                 112.54
340A.413                         112.55
340A.413, Subd. 3                112.20
340A.414                         112.35
340A.414, Subd. 6                112.22
340A.504                         112.33
340A.504, Subd. 3                112.22
340A.504, Subd. 3(b)             112.22
340A.509                         112.02
340A.801                         112.25
343.31                           91.18
346.155                          91.03
346.36, Subd. 6                  91.18
346.39                           91.13
346.40                           91.13
346.41                           91.13
346.42                           91.13
347.50 - 347.565                 91.11
347.51                           91.11
347.515                          91.11,
                                 91.12
347.52(a)                        91.11
347.52(c)                        91.11
347.54                           91.12
                                 116.01,
Ch. 349                          116.02,
                                 116.15
349.11 - 349.21                  116.99
349.11 - 349.23                  116.06,
                                 116.07
349.12                           116.04
349.12, Subd. 25                 116.13
349.16                           116.13
349.166                          116.09
349.213                          116.02
364.03, Subd. 3                  119.06
412.221, Subd. 17                31.20
412.241                          31.20
415.11                           30.08
Ch. 429                          93.34,
                                 152.10
                                 92.01,
429.061                          92.02,
                                 92.24
                                 92.01,
429.101                          92.02,
                                 92.24,
                                 92.43
437.02                           113.03
437.07                           111.02
444.075                          53.01
444.075, Subd. 3e                53.06,
                                 54.05
Ch. 462                          93.34
462.351 et seq.                  151.01
462.353                          151.50
462.353, Subd. 4                 151.63,
                                 152.13
462.354(1)                       31.45
462.355, Subd. 2, 3              31.48
462.356, Subd. 2                 31.48
462.357                          151.51,
                                 151.58
462.357, Subd. 1e                150.06
462.357, Subd. 4                 31.48
                                 31.48,
462.357, Subd. 6                 151.56,
                                 151.57
462.357, Subd. 7                 151.21,
                                 151.28
462.357, Subd. 8                 151.22
462.358                          152.02
462.358, Subd. 2b                152.105
462.358, Subd. 3b                152.07
462.359                          151.05
462.359, Subd. 2                 31.48
462.359, Subd. 4                 31.48,
                                 151.56
462.3595                         151.51,
                                 151.55
462.36                           151.05,
                                 152.01
                                 151.50,
462.361                          151.63,
                                 152.13
463.15 - 463.26                  92.01
463.17                           92.23
471.191                          152.105
471.195                          90.01
471.6985                         112.53
471.895                          30.12
Ch. 505                          152.03,
                                 152.08
505.021                          152.08
505.021, Subd. 2                 152.08
505.021, Subd. 3                 152.08
505.03                           152.07
514.67                           92.01
518B.01                          119.12,
                                 119.13
609.02, Subd. 3                  10.99
609.02, Subd. 4a                 10.99
609.205(4)                       91.11
609.226, Subd. 1                 91.11
609.293 - 609.352                119.12,
                                 119.13
609.72                           118.12
609.746 - 609.749                119.12,
                                 119.13
609.75 - 609.763                 116.06,
                                 116.99
609.79                           119.12,
                                 119.13
617.202                          119.04,
                                 153.04
                                 119.01,
617.242                          150.05,
                                 153.01
617.293                          119.04,
                                 153.04
617.295                          119.04,
                                 153.04
624.20, Subd. 1(c)               130.04
624.717                          130.02
626.84                           91.13
626.84, Subd. 1(g)               31.05
626.862                          10.20
 
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Code Section
Minn. Rules                     Code Section
part 1300.0050                  51.003
Ch. 1341                        150.01
Ch. 4714                        51.003,
                                52.31
Ch. 4725                        52.06
parts 6100.5000 - 6100.5800     72.01
Ch. 7030                        92.18
parts 7030.1000 - 7030.1050     70.10
parts 7030.1050                 70.07
parts 7030.1060                 70.07
Ch. 7035                        90.15
Ch. 7080                        51.035,
                                51.037
parts 7515.1080 - 7515.1120     112.22
Ch. 7560                        93.24
7560.0100 subps. 1 - 12         93.21
Ch. 7819                        93.21
part 7819.100                   93.25
part 7819.0100, subparts 1 - 23 93.21
part 7819.1000, subpart 3       93.22
part 7819.1100                  93.26,
                                93.29
part 7819.1250                  93.38
part 7819.1300                  93.30
part 7819.3000                  93.26
part 7819.3100                  93.35
part 7819.3200                  93.37
part 7819.4000                  93.34
part 7819.4100                  93.34
part 7819.5000                  93.35
part 7819.5100                  93.35
parts 9502.0315 - 9502.0445     151.21,
                                151.28
 
 
