CITY CODE
of
BAXTER, MINNESOTA
2002
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-004, passed 2-18-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Baxter, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 2025-004, passed February 18, 2025. Ordinances of
the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
 
ORDINANCE 2022-010
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE TEXT OF TITLE 10, CHAPTER 4, SECTION 10
“ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS” OF THE BAXTER CITY CODE
 
THE CITY OF BAXTER ORDAINS:
 
SECTION 1.  Amendments. The text of Chapter 4 of Title 10 (Zoning Regulations)
of the Baxter City Code is hereby amended by deleting the stricken material and
adding the underlined material as follows:
 
10-4-10: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS:
   
H.  Color: Colors shall be earth tone, harmonious and shall consist of muted
colors with low reflectance. Bright or brilliant colors and sharply contrasting
colors may be used only for accent purposes and shall be limited to a maximum
of ten fifteen percent (1015%) of any single building facade.
 
SECTION 2. Effective Date. This amendment shall take effect upon its passage.
 
 
WHEREUPON, said Ordinance is hereby declared adopted on this 19th day of July
2022.
 
_____________________________
Darrel Olson, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
___________________________
Kelly Steele, Assistant City Administrator/Clerk         City Seal
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-019
 
An Ordinance of the City of Baxter Creating City Code Title III Chapter 21:
Cannabis and Low-Potency Hemp Edible Business Registration
 
 
   The City Council of the City of Baxter does ordain:
 
SECTION 1.   Enactment. Baxter City Code Title III, Chapter 21 is hereby
created and enacted as follows:
CHAPTER 21: Cannabis and low-potency hemp edible business registration.
§ 3-21-1 State Law Adopted; PURPOSE.
 
The provisions of Minnesota statutes chapter 342, as it may be amended,
relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales, financial
responsibility of licensees, hours and days of sale, and all other matters
pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption of cannabis are
hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. However,
the city may protect the public health, safety, and welfare of residents by
regulating cannabis and lower-potency hemp edible businesses within its
jurisdiction. The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of
Minnesota Statutes Chapter 342, which authorizes cities to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare of residents by regulating cannabis and lower-
potency hemp edible businesses within its jurisdiction.
 
§ 3-21-2 Definitions
 
Unless otherwise noted in this section, words, terms, and phrases found in the
definitions of Minnesota Statutes Section 342.01, or as amended, apply, unless
otherwise noted. In addition, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
 
CANNABIS EVENT. A temporary event organized by a Cannabis Event Organizer at
which cannabis products or lower-potency hemp edible products are sold by
vendors. Such Cannabis Event may be comprised solely of cannabis and lower-
potency hemp edible vendors or may be part of a larger event at which cannabis
and lower-potency hemp edible vendors wish to participate.
 
Office of Cannabis Management or OCM: Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management
 
STATE LICENSE: An approved license issued by the Office of Cannabis Management
to a cannabis or low-potency hemp edible retail business.
 
§ 3-21-3 Registration Required. 
 
Before operating any business within the City that is licensed by OCM, the
business must register with the City. Applications shall be submitted on the
forms provided by the City Clerk, and all applicants shall comply with the
process below. All applications shall be considered and approved or denied by
the City Council.
 
§ 3-21-4 Cap on registrations:
 
The City will not issue more than 2 cannabis retail registrations. This cap on
registrations does not apply to any medical cannabis combination or lower-
potency hemp edible retailer businesses licensed by OCM under Minnesota
Statutes Section 342.
 
§ 3-21-5 Conditions of registration
 
A.   In General: Every registered business is subject to the conditions in the
following subsections and all other provisions chapter, and any other
applicable ordinance, state law, or regulation.
 
B.   Insurance: Compliance with the insurance requirements of state law and of
this chapter is a continuing condition of any registration pursuant to this
chapter.
 
 1 C.   Hours and Days of Sale: Hours and days of sale as outlined in Minnesota
Statutes Section 342.27 Subd. 7 are adopted as the hours and days of sale
within the city, except, however, that the closing time for all registered
businesses shall be at ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. even though said chapter has
authorized a later closing time.
 
D.   Registrant’s Responsibility: The owner or operator of a cannabis or lower-
potency hemp edible business is responsible for the conduct and condition of
their place of business. The act of an employee of the registered business is
deemed the act of the owner or operator as well, and the owner or operator is
responsible for all penalties provided by this chapter equally with the
employee.
 
E.   Display of Product: No cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible product shall
be visible from the exterior of the building.
 
§ 3-21-6 registration Application:
 
A.   Form: Any application for registration must be made on the form provided
by the City.
 
B.   Required Information: Every application for registration shall state:
 
1.   The name, age, address, email address, and telephone of the applicant;
2.   Full name of the property owner of the premises the business will operate
at;
3.   The address and parcel ID for the premises where the business will
operate;
4.   The name of the business licensed by OCM to operate after registration;
5.   Whether the applicant is the owner or operator of the business registered
by OCM; and
6.   Whether the applicant is the owner or operator of the premises where the
business will operate.
 
C.   State License: Every registration shall include a copy of the State
License issued by OCM under Minnesota Statutes Section 342.
 
D.   Approval of Security: Applicants for registration of a cannabis retail or
low-potency hemp edible business shall be approved by the police chief.
 
§ 3-21-7 Registration Fees and Expiration of Registration:
 
A.   The fee for a registration under this chapter shall be set in the City’s
Fee Table, as amended by the City Council from time to time.
 
B.   All fees are nonrefundable and shall not be pro-rated.
 
C.   At the time of the initial registration, the initial registration fee and
the renewal fee shall be due and payable.
 
D.   For the first renewal of the registration, no additional registration fee
shall be required. Beginning with the second renewal, and each subsequent
renewal thereafter, the registration renewal fee shall be paid at the time of
renewal.
 
E.   The registration term begins on January 1 and ends on December 31.
 
§ 3-21-8 Registration Approval:
 
The City Council must act on each new and renewal registration application
within a reasonable time following receipt of the recommendation from City
staff regarding the application. At the City Council meeting at which the
application is considered, the registration will be approved by the City
Council if the applicant:
 
A.   Is in compliance with this chapter, and all zoning requirements outlined
in Title 10 of this City Code, as may be amended from time to time;
 
B.   Has paid the registration fee;
 
C.   Is current on all property taxes, assessments, and all other City fees and
charges; and
 
D.   Has a State License issued by OCM for the business applying for
registration.
 
§ 3-21-9 Places inenligble for a registered business
 
A.   General Prohibition: No registration shall be issued for any place or
business ineligible to operate under any provisions of this chapter, and of any
other applicable ordinance, state law, or regulation.
 
§ 3-21-10 No Transfer or Assignment of Registrations
 
Each registration granted under this chapter is to the registered business only
and shall not be transferable or assignable to another business. Each
registration granted is only for the premises described in the registration
application and shall not be transferable to another location without the
 
§ 3-21-11 Prohibited Conduct
 
A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, purchase, obtain or otherwise
provide any cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible product to any person under
the age of twenty-one (21), including cannabinoids derived from hemp.
 
B.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) to
possess any cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible product. This chapter shall
not apply to persons under the age of twenty-one (21) lawfully involved in a
compliance check, including cannabinoids derived from hemp.
 
C.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) to
use or consume any cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible product unless it is
legally authorized medical cannabis.
 
D.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) to
attempt to disguise the person’s true age by the use of a false form of
identification, whether the identification is that of another person or one in
which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with, to represent an
age older than the actual age of the person, in order to purchase any cannabis
or lower-potency hemp edible product.
 
E.   No cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible product may be sold to an
obviously intoxicated person or a person under the influence of a controlled
substance.
 
F.   No one under the age of twenty-one (21) shall sell cannabis.
 
G.   Cannabis cannot be sold in vending machines, through a drive-through
window or as part of a home occupation.
 
H.   On-site consumption is prohibited except for lower-potency edible products
that are consumed as a beverage.
 
I.   It shall be unlawful to sell, purchase, obtain, possess, or provide
cannabis or lower- potency hemp edible products with Delta-10 THC.
 
 2 § 3-21-12 Cannabis event permit requirements.
 
A.   Cannabis Event Permit Required: No registration shall be required for an
Event Organizer licensed by OCM to conduct a Cannabis Event within the City;
however, each proposed cannabis event must be approved by the City Council and
issued a Cannabis Event permit.
 
B.   Power of Council: The Council may, in its sole discretion, add reasonable
conditions to the permit, reduce the number of days for the event, prohibit
outdoor activity and/or restrict or prohibit on-site consumption, to protect
the public health, safety, and general welfare.
 
C.   Permit Application Requirements: The Event Organizer shall apply as
provided by the City Clerk. The Cannabis Event permit application shall
include:
 
1.   A copy of the Event Organizer’s license by OCM, or a copy of the license
application submitted to OCM;
 
2.   Payment of the permit and escrow fees;
 
3.   The dates and hours of the proposed Cannabis Event;
 
4.   The location, including address, PID, and all other ownership information
of the property where the Cannabis Event is proposed to take place, including:
 
a.   Diagram of the physical layout of the event;
b.   All entrances and exits that will be used by event participants and
vendors;
c.   Consumption areas, if any;
d.   Retail sales areas, if any;
e.   Locations where cannabis waste will be stored; and
f.   Where any cannabis products will be stored.
 
5.   If the Cannabis Event is part of a larger event, signed consent from the
organization sponsoring the larger event;
 
6.   The names, number and type of cannabis businesses and lower-potency hemp
edible businesses, if any, that will sell cannabis and lower-potency hemp
products;
 
7.   Sworn statement that that the Event Organizer is responsible for and will
comply with the operational requirements imposed by the permit, state law,
including Minn. Stat. 342.40 subd. 7 and any regulatory rules applicable to the
Cannabis Event; and
8.   A security plan that has been approved by the Police Chief, including the
name of the contracted licensed security personnel that complies with Minn.
Stat. Section 342.40 subd. 3.
 
D.   Insurance Requirements: If the Cannabis Event is approved, the Event
Organizer shall provide of copy of an insurance certificate for the Cannabis
Event issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the State of
Minnesota, with coverage of at least $50,000 per person and $100,000 per
occurrence.
 
E.   Use of Escrow Fees: Payment of an escrow fee for any expenses that may be
incurred by the city during the cannabis event is required. Unused escrow fees
will be returned to the applicant following an accounting of expenses incurred
by the City. The Event Organizer shall be fully responsible for any costs
incurred by the City that exceed the escrow amount.
 
F.   Public Property Prohibition: No Cannabis Event shall be permitted on any
public property without Council approval.
§ 3-21-13 compliance checks and inspections.
 
A.   Compliance Checks: All registered businesses must be open to inspection by
the local law enforcement or other authorized City official during regular
business hours. From time to time, but at least once per year, the City will
conduct compliance checks on retail businesses by engaging underage youth
between the ages of seventeen (17) and twenty-one (21) years, to enter the
premises to attempt to purchase products. All minors and underage adults
lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about their
age truthfully when asked and shall produce any identification which they are
asked to produce. In all instances, persons lawfully engaged in a compliance
check are not guilty of the unlawful purchase or attempted purchase, nor the
unlawful possession of cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible products when the
items are obtained or attempted to be obtained as a part of the compliance
check.
 
B.   No Prohibition: Nothing in this section prohibits compliance checks
authorized by State or Federal laws for educational, research or training
purposes, or required for the enforcement of a particular State or Federal law.
 
§ 3-21-14 violations.
 
A.   Violations And Penalties: For purposes of determining the number of
occurrences of violations, the city council shall consider a violation as a
second occurrence if it occurred within eighteen (18) months of the first
violation; and shall consider a violation as a third occurrence if it occurred
within thirty (30) months of the second violation; and shall consider a
violation a fourth occurrence if it occurred within thirty (30) months of the
third violation. If there is a change of ownership (meaning at least 50 percent
of the ownership is transferred to an unrelated party) of the licensed
establishment, previous violation will not apply.
 
B.    First violation and the second violation, the registration holder shall
pay a civil fine established in the City Fee Schedule.
 
 
C.   Third violation, the registration holder shall pay a civil fine
established in the City Fee Schedule and have its registration suspended for
five (5) days as determined by the Chief of Police.
 
D.   Fourth violation, the registration holder shall have its registration
suspended for 30 days as determined by the Chief of Police.
 
E.   All administrative fees imposed by this article are deemed payable within
sixty (60) days of the date of citation or no later than thirty (30) days after
the date of any written decision determining that a violation has occurred for
all appeals. Failure to pay any administrative fee imposed within the time
limits set herein will result in a registration suspension until the date of
payment.
 
F.    Citation Process and Right To Hearing: Upon discovery of a violation of
this article or pursuant to a compliance check, the involved store clerk and
the registration holder shall be issued a citation by the Baxter police. Each
violation, and every day in which a violation occurs or continues, shall
constitute a separate offense. All fees imposed by this article will be payable
to the city administrator. No administrative fee may be imposed until the store
clerk and the registration holder have received written notice of the violation
by personal service or by certified mail sent to the location of the alleged
violation and the cited parties have been afforded an opportunity for a
hearing. Any cited party that requests a hearing in writing within twenty (20)
days of the date of mailing of the written notice of violation will be afforded
an opportunity for a hearing before a person authorized by the licensing
authority to conduct the hearing. A decision that a violation has occurred must
be in writing and will be completed within ten (10) days of the hearing.
 
G.   Notice of Suspension: The City will notify the registered business and
OCM, in writing, of the suspension. The notice shall state the violations or
grounds for the suspension.
 
H.   OCM Investigation: OCM shall investigate the suspended registration, and
may extend the period of suspension, revoke the registration, or order the
reinstatement of the registration, or take any other action described in
Minnesota Statutes Section 342.19 or 342.21.
 
I.   Civil Penalty: If the City determines that a registered cannabis retail or
low-potency hemp edible business violates any provision of this chapter, the
City may impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each violation.
 
SECTION 2. SUMMARY PUBLICATION. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes § 412.191, in
the case of a lengthy ordinance, a summary may be published. While a copy of
the entire ordinance is available without cost at the office of the City Clerk,
the following summary is approved by the City Council and shall be published in
lieu of publishing the entire ordinance:
 
The text adopted by the Baxter City Council on December 17, 2024 codifies as
Title III Chapter 21 of the Baxter City Code the policies on, and procedures
for, registration of Cannabis Retail and Lower-Potency Businesses; and creates
a cannabis event organizer permit to reflect Minnesota State Statutes Sections
342 and 151.72.
 
SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall become effective upon
publication.
 
Passed by the City Council on the 17th day of December, 2024.
 
 
 
                     CITY OF BAXTER
 
 
                     By:                
                        Darrel Olson
                        Its Mayor
 
 
   Attest:                    
                        Kelly Steele
                        Its City Clerk
 
 
(Published in the Brainerd Dispatch on _________________________, 2024)
 
 
 
 
 
Notes
  Minn. Stat 342.27 Subd. 7 allows cities to adopt an ordinance prohibiting the
1 retail sales of cannabis starting at 9pm if it choses. You can remove this if
  you want. If removed, the businesses could sell until 2am.
  This is the section that has a lot of discretion. Per the new cannabis
  statute, the city cannot require registration of cannabis events, but the
2 city can put certain parameters on a cannabis event in city code. This
  proposal errs on the restrictive side - some of these can be removed if you
  want.
ORDINANCE 2025-005
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE TEXT OF TITLE 5 OF THE BAXTER CITY CODE
 
THE CITY OF BAXTER ORDAINS:
 
SECTION 1.  Amendments. The text of Title 5 (Police Regulations) to amend
Chapter 2, Curfew, of the Baxter City Code is hereby amended by deleting the
stricken material and adding the underlined material as follows:
TITLE 5, POLICE REGULATIONS
 
SECTION 2
 
CHAPTER 2 CURFEW
 
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
 
CURFEW HOURS: For minors fifteen (15) years of age and under, ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. through five o'clock (5:00) A.M. For minors sixteen (16) and seventeen
(17) years of age, commencing at eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Sundays through
Thursdays until five o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following morning; and one minute
after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. until five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Saturdays and
Sundays.
 
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
 
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
 
GUARDIAN: A. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
 
MINOR: Any person age seventeen (17) and under.
 
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
PARENT: A person who is:
   A.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person; or
   B.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
 
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
 
REMAIN: A. Linger or stay; or
B.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer or the
owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
 
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ. (Ord. 60, 12-20-1994;
amd. Ord. 60.1, 5-18-1999)
5-2-2: RESTRICTIONS:
   
A.   Minor: It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
B.   Parent; Guardian: It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian of a
minor to knowingly permit, or by insufficient control allow, the minor to
remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the
city during curfew hours. The term "knowingly" includes knowledge which a
parent or guardian should reasonably be expected to have concerning the
whereabouts of a minor in the legal custody of that parent or guardian.
   C.   Establishment: It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, or any
employee of an establishment to knowingly allow a minor to remain upon the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours. (Ord. 60, 12-20-1994)
5-2-3: EXCEPTIONS:
   
A.   Valid Exceptions: The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the
operation of the curfew. The minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home from
an employment activity without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor; or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor; or
      8.   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly.
   B.   Defense To Prosecution: It is a defense to prosecution that the owner,
operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the police
department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours and refused to leave. (Ord. 60, 12-20- 1994)
 
5-2-4: ENFORCEMENT:
 
Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police officer shall
ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place. The
officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this chapter unless
the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on
any response and other circumstances, no defense is present. If a citation is
issued, parents will be given a report of curfew violation, which they will be
asked to read and sign. (Ord. 60, 12-20-1994)
5-2-5: PENALTY:
 
   A.   Separate Offense: A person who violates any provision of this chapter
is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the
violation is committed, continued, or permitted.
   B.   First Violation: A minor, following the first violation of this
chapter, is taken home to a parent or guardian and a report of curfew violation
is signed by the parent or guardian.
   CB.   SecondMinor Violation: A second violation by any minor shall be
referred for prosecution by appropriate authorities. Any minor who is convicted
of a violatesion of this chapter, after the case has been referred for will be
prosecutedion in the trial court under pursuant to Minnesota sStatutes section
eCh. 260B260.115. Any adult person having the care and custody of such minor is
guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed two
hundred dollars ($200.00).
C. Adult Violation: Any  adult person having the care and custody of a minor
who knowingly permits or by insufficient control allows the minor to remain in
a public place during curfew hours is guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).
D. Establishment Violation: Any owner, operator, or any employee of an
establishment knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours is guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   D.   Additional Violations: Additional violations by any minor shall be
considered a petty misdemeanor. Any additional violations by any adult person
having care and custody of such a minor, and any owner, operator, or employee
of an establishment who knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as
provided in section  1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 60, 12-20-1994; amd. 2002 Code)
 
SECTION 3. Effective Date. This amendment shall take effect upon its passage
and publication.
SECTION 4. Summary Publication. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 412.191,
in the case of a lengthy ordinance, a summary may be published. While a copy of
the entire ordinance is available without cost at the office of the City Clerk,
the following summary is approved by the City Council and shall be published in
lieu of publishing the entire ordinance:
The City Council adopted an ordinance amending the text in Title 5, “Police
Regulations” Chapter 2 “Curfew.”
 
Whereupon, said Ordinance is hereby declared adopted on this 6th day of May
2025.
____________________________
Darrel Olson, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
__________________________                                          Kelly
Steele, City Clerk         
City Seal
 
 
ORDINANCE 2025-006
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE TEXT OF TITLE 10, CHAPTER 4, SECTION 10
(ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS) OF THE BAXTER CITY CODE (City file PZ2025-008)
 
THE CITY OF BAXTER ORDAINS:
 
SECTION 1.  Amendments. The text of Chapter 4: Section 10 “Architectural Design
Standards” of Title 10 (Zoning Regulations) of the Baxter City Code is hereby
amended by deleting the stricken material and adding the underlined material as
follows:
10-4-10: Architectural Design Standards:
D.   Evaluation Of Design:
4. District OS and PB
a.   Face brick.
         b.   Natural stone.
         c.   Architectural glass.
         d.   Stucco.
         e.   EIFS.
f. Siding materials - wood, steel, vinyl, or cementitious siding (i.e., lap,
board on board, board and batten, log and half log or shake) shall be limited
to a maximum of seventy percent (70%) on any front facade. Any of these siding
materials may be used up to one hundred percent (100%) on nonfront facades
         g.   Architectural concrete masonry units shall be limited to a
maximum of thirty percent (30%) of each building façade. Utility buildings five
hundred (500) square feet or less that require a higher level of durability,
may request architectural concrete masonry units exceeding thirty percent (30%)
of a building facade through the conditional use permit process.
         h.   Architectural metal panels shall be limited to a maximum of fifty
percent (50%)may be used up to 100% on any facadefaçade except that
architectural corrugated metal panels shall be limited to a maximum of thirty
percent (30%) on any facade.
         i.   Accent materials shall be limited to a maximum of ten percent
(10%) per building facade as approved under subsection F of this section.
         j.   Architectural composites including fiber cement composites,
synthetic composites, and related veneers. When an architectural composite is
proposed to imitate other proposed materials with a percentage restriction, the
architectural composite shall be added to the square footage of the material it
imitates to determine the total square footage of the material on each facade.
         k.   Other materials may be approved under subsection F of this
section.
SECTION 2. Summary Publication. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 412.191,
in the case of a lengthy ordinance, a summary may be published. While a copy of
the entire ordinance is available without cost at the office of the City Clerk,
the following summary is approved by the City Council and shall be published in
lieu of publishing the entire ordinance:
The City Council adopted an ordinance amending the standards of Title 10
“Zoning Regulations” as follows:
Section 10-4-10 Amending Architectural Design Standards to allow architectural
metal panels to be used up to 100% on any façade while limiting the use of
architectural corrugated metal panels to a maximum of 30% on any façade within
the OS, Office Service district.
SECTION 3. Effective Date. This amendment shall take effect upon its passage.
Whereupon, said Ordinance is hereby declared adopted on this 20th day of May
2025.
____________________________
Darrel Olson, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
__________________________                                          Kelly
Steele, City Clerk         
City Seal
 
 
ORDINANCE 2025-007
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CITY’S OFFICIAL ZONING MAP, WHICH IS ADOPTED AS
ORDINANCE, PURSUANT TO TITLE 10, CHAPTER 3-2 OF THE CITY CODE TO RECLASSIFY
CERTAIN LAND LOCATED AT 12170 IRONWOOD DRIVE (CITY FILE NUMBER 2025-009)
 
THE CITY OF BAXTER ORDAINS:
 
Section 1. Amendment of the City Code. Title 10 of the Zoning Ordinance of the
City Code of the City of Baxter, Minnesota, is hereby amended by changing the
classification on the City of Baxter Zoning Map from R-S, Residential Staging
to PUD (Planned Unit Development) for 9 acres located north at 12170 Ironwood
Drive, legally described as follows:
 
Outlot C, Second Addition to City Center of Baxter, Crow Wing County,
Minnesota.
 
Subd.1. The approval of the PUD amendment and the development standards of the
PUD are as indicated on the application and plans received by the City on April
22, 2024, revised Final Plat and Ironwood Drive plans received April 29, 2025,
and revised preliminary plat received May 2, 2025, except as amended by the PUD
General and Final Plan Resolution 2025-048, on file in the office of the zoning
administrator under file 2025-009.
 
Subd. 2. The allowable uses for the PUD are any permitted or accessory uses as
allowed in the C-2, zoning district and Children’s Museum. The permitted and
accessory uses in the C-2 District are permitted in the PUD as they are allowed
in the C-2 district. Conditional and Interim Uses in the C-2 district require a
PUD amendment, provided they comply with all the development standards and
conditions approved in the PUD by City Council.
 
SECTION 3. SUMMARY PUBLICATION. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 412.191,
in the case of a lengthy ordinance, a summary may be published. While a copy of
the entire ordinance is available without cost at the office of the City Clerk,
the following summary is approved by the City Council and shall be published in
lieu of publishing the entire ordinance:
 
The City Council adopted an ordinance to change the classification on the City
of Baxter Zoning Map from R-S, Residential Staging to PUD, Planned Unit
Development for the 9-acre site located 12170 Ironwood Drive.
 
Section 2. Effective Date. This amendment shall take effect upon its passage.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whereupon, said Ordinance is hereby declared adopted on this 20th day of May
2025.
 
 
_____________________________
Darrel Olson, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
__________________________
                           City Seal
Kelly Steele, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
ORDNANCE 2025-009
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE TEXT OF TITLE 1, CHAPTER 4, SECTION 3 OF THE BAXTER
CITY CODE
 
THE CITY OF BAXTER ORDAINS:
 
SECTION 1.   REPEAL AND REPLACE. Title 1, Chapter 4, Section 3, Alternative
Methods of Enforcement, of the Baxter City Code is hereby repealed and replaced
as follows:
 
1-4-3: ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF ENFORCEMENT:
A.   Purpose: The city council finds that there is a need for alternative
methods of enforcing this code. While criminal fines and penalties have been
the most frequent enforcement mechanism, there are certain negative
consequences for both the city and the accused. The delay inherent in that
system does not ensure prompt resolution. Citizens resent being labeled as
criminals for violations of administrative regulations. The higher burden of
proof and the potential of incarceration do not appear appropriate for most
administrative violations. The criminal process does not always regard city
code violations as being important. Accordingly, the city council finds that
the use of administrative citations and the imposition of civil penalties is a
legitimate and necessary alternative method of enforcement. This method of
enforcement is in addition to any other legal remedy that may be pursued for
this code's violations.
   B.   General Provisions:
      1.   Administrative Offense: A violation of any provision of this code is
an administrative offense that may be subject to an administrative citation and
civil penalties. Each day a violation exists constitutes a separate offense.
      2.   Exemption: Alcohol and tobacco license violations are not subject to
administrative citation under this section.
      3.   Civil Penalty: An administrative offense may be subject to a civil
penalty not to exceed the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor violation under
state law.
      4.   Schedule Of Fines And Fees: The city council must adopt by
resolution a schedule of fines for offenses initiated by administrative
citation. The city council is not bound by that schedule when a matter is
appealed to it for administrative review under subsection F of this section.
The city council may adopt a schedule of fees to be paid to administrative
hearing officers.
5. Enforcement:
 
a.   Any peace officer licensed in Crow Wing County, including but not limited
to the City’s Police Department, the County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff,
shall have the authority to enforce any provision of this Code.
b.   
c.   The following individuals designated in this section, or their designee,
shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this code:
 
         (1)   Building Official;
         (2)   City Administrator;
         (3)   City Clerk;
 1
         
(4)   Code Enforcement Coordinator;
         (5)   Community Development Director;
         (6)   Community Service Officer;
         (7)   Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, Fire Marshal; and
         (8)   Public Works Director.
 
 For the purposes of clarity, the individuals identified above in paragraph 5
shall hereafter be referred to as “Enforcement Officer.”
 
6. Intent: A violation of the City Code is a misdemeanor; however, this Chapter
seeks to gain compliance with the Code through administrative citations as an
alternative to the commencement of any formal civil or criminal court action,
These administrative civil penalties are in addition to any other legal or
equitable remedy available to the City for City Code violations. The City may,
in its discretion, choose not to issue an administrative citation and may
instead initiate criminal charges, abatement, or civil proceedings.
 
   C.   Administrative Citation Procedures:
      1.   Compliance Letter :: Any employee or Enforcement Officer enumerated
in City Code Section 1-4-3.B or any duly authorized representative thereof is
authorized to issue compliance letters and administrative citations for
violations of this code.
a.            a.   Contents of Letter. If an Enforcement Officer determines
that a code violation has occurred, the city may issue a compliance letter. The
compliance letter shall contain the following information:
i.   A legal description or address of the property on which the Code violation
has occurred;
ii.   The nature of the violation, including a reference to the appropriate
Code section;
iii.   A compliance deadline, providing a reasonable time for compliance based
on the nature of the violation; and
iv.   A statement that failure to correct the violation may result in the
imposition of an administrative citation, including a civil penalty and stating
the amount of the penalty as provided in the fee schedule.
b.   Service of compliance letter. The compliance letter may be served on the
offender by certified mail, regular mail sent to the last known legal address,
by personal service or by posting a copy in a conspicuous place in or about the
building or property affected by the letter.
c.   Reasonable extensions. Following service of the compliance letter, the
City shall attempt to work to resolve the violation, including, but not limited
to, offering reasonable extensions for compliance.
d.   Exceptions to issuance of a compliance letter. For violations of any of
the following sections, the City shall not be required to issue a compliance
letter and may proceed directly to issuance of an administrative citation as
provided in paragraph 2 below.
a)   Repeat offender. If the same offender commits a subsequent violation
within 12 months after a compliance letter has been issued for a same or
similar offense.
b)   License violations. For any license violations, including, but not limited
to, not having a license.
c)   Fire protection and prevention violations.
d)   Animal violations. For any violation of Title 5 – Chapter 3.
e)   Traffic or parking violations. For traffic or parking violations issued
under Title 6.
f)   Noise violations. For any violation Title 4 – Chapter 1 – Section 4.
g)   Failure to follow a stop work order issued by the City Building Official.
h)   Emergency situations. When a condition exists that requires immediate
action to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
      2.   Administrative Citation.
1. Generally. Upon the failure to correct the violation specified in the
compliance letter within the time frame established in the compliance letter or
any extension thereof granted by the City, or for any offense for which a
compliance letter is not required, the City may issue an administrative
citation. The administrative citation shall be served by certified mail,
regular mail or by personal service and shall contain the following
information:
a)   A legal description or address of the property on which the Code violation
has occurred;
b)   Reference to the Code that is alleged to be violated;
c)   The amount of the administrative civil penalty for the specific Code
violation, which shall be due and payable to the City within 30 calendar days
of the date the citation is mailed or personally served;
d)   A statement that the violation must be corrected or a subsequent
administrative or a criminal citation may be issued;
e)   A statement that the Code violation and the amount of the administrative
civil penalty may be contested to be heard before an independent hearing
officer by notifying the City Clerk in writing within 10 calendar days after
the citation was mailed or personally served; and
f)   A statement that failure to pay the administrative civil penalty may
result in it being assessed against the property as provided in Minnesota
Statute Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time.
2.   Payment of penalty and correction of violation. If the offender pays the
administrative civil penalty and corrects the Code violation, no further action
will be taken for that same violation.
3.   Payment of penalty without correction of violation. If the offender pays
the administrative civil penalty but fails to correct the Code violation, the
City may issue a subsequent administrative citation, initiate criminal
proceedings or initiate any other proceedings or remedies available in order to
enforce correction of the City Code violation.
4.   No payment of penalty and no correction of violation. If the offender
fails to pay the administrative civil penalty and fails to correct the Code
violation, the City may do any of the following, or any combination thereof:
a)   Assess the administrative civil penalty against the property pursuant to
Minnesota Statute Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time;
b)   Issue a subsequent administrative citation, thereby commencing a new
administrative penalty process;
c)   Initiate criminal proceedings; and/or
d)   Initiate other enforcement action authorized by law.
5.   Failure to pay an administrative citation for which the costs cannot be
assessed shall be a misdemeanor.
C.   Contesting the administrative citation. An offender receiving an
administrative citation may contest the alleged Code violation and the amount
of the administrative civil penalty. In order to contest any part of the
administrative citation, the offender must notify the City Clerk in writing
within 10 calendar days from the date the citation is mailed or personally
served, stating that the offender contests the alleged violation, the amount of
the penalty or both and pay a non-refundable filing fee as established by the
City’s Fee Schedule.
1.   Administrative citation hearing.
a)   Scheduling the hearing. After receipt of the written notice to contest the
citation as provided in paragraph 3 above, the City Clerk shall schedule a
hearing before an independent hearing officer, which will be held within 60
calendar days, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the parties. The City
Clerk shall notify the owner of the date, time and location of the hearing.
b)   Independent hearing officer. An independent hearing officer from the
office of administrative law judges shall preside over the administrative
citation hearing.
c)   Conduct of the administrative citation hearing.
i.   At the hearing, both parties may be represented by counsel, shall have the
opportunity to present testimony, shall be able to call and question witnesses
and introduce exhibits; however, strict rules of evidence shall not apply.
ii.   The hearing officer shall receive and give weight to the evidence,
including hearsay evidence.
iii.   The hearing shall be recorded and the City shall maintain a full record
of the proceedings according to its data retention schedule.
iv.   Authority of hearing officer. The independent hearing officer has the
authority to do any of the following, or a combination thereof:
(a)  Make a finding that a violation has occurred;
(b)  Reduce, stay or waive a scheduled administrative civil penalty either
unconditionally or upon compliance with reasonable conditions;
(c)  Require compliance with the City Code within a specified time frame; and/
or
(d)  Make a finding that no violation has occurred and dismiss the
administrative citation.
a)   Decision and order.
i.   The hearing officer may announce a decision at the conclusion of the
hearing or may take the matter under advisement.
 
ii.   The hearing officer shall issue a decision in the form of an order and
shall serve a written copy of the order upon the parties no later than 30
calendar days after the hearing.
 
iii.   Any administrative civil penalty that the independent hearing officer
imposes must be paid to the City within the time frame established in the
order. If no date is specified, it must be paid within 30 days of the hearing
officer's order.
 
iv.   If the administrative civil penalty is not paid, the City may assess the
civil penalty against the owner's property pursuant to Minnesota Statute
Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time.
 
v.   If the hearing officer determines that no violation occurred, then the
City may not proceed with criminal prosecution for the same act or conduct.
 
e)   Finding of violation. If the violation is upheld, then the offender must
reimburse the City for the cost of the hearing, not to exceed the amount
established in the City’s Fee Schedule.
f)   Failure to appear. Failure to appear at the hearing shall result in a
default judgment against the party who fails to appear. If the offender fails
to appear, the administrative citation shall be sustained and the fee for the
cost of the hearing shall be imposed. If the City fails to appear, the
administrative citation shall be dismissed and the City shall refund the filing
fee.
1.   Appeal. The hearing officer's decision is final and may only be appealed
to the Minnesota Court of Appeals.
C.   Schedule of administrative civil penalties.
1.   The City shall adopt a fee schedule of administrative civil penalties for
City Code violations by resolution.
a.   The maximum amount of an administrative civil penalty may not exceed twice
the maximum fine authorized by state law for misdemeanor offenses or the
maximum fine authorized by state law for an administrative process.
   G.   Recovery Of Civil Penalties:
      1.   Nonpayment: If a civil penalty is not paid within the time
specified, it will constitute:
         a.   A lien on the real property upon which the violation occurred if
the property or improvements on the property was the subject of the violation
and the property owner was found responsible for that violation; or
         b.   A personal obligation of the violator in all other situations.
      2.   Lien: A lien may be assessed against the property and collected in
the same manner as taxes.
      3.   Personal Obligation: A personal obligation may be collected by
appropriate legal means.
      4.   Late Fees/Charges:
         a.   If after seven (7) days the fine has not been paid or a hearing
requested, the fine will increase by ten percent (10%) for each seven (7) days
thereafter for one month. After four (4) weeks and four (4) late fee charges
have been added to the original fine, the total bill will be assessed to the
property taxes and all city licenses will be revoked. For continued violations,
the city will correct the violation and assess the charges for doing so onto
the property taxes or criminal charges may be filed.
 2          b.   If the same property and property owner are charged with a
subsequent violation within a twelve (12) month period for the same, or
substantially similar offense, the fine will be increased by twenty five
percent (25%). After a third infraction in a twelve (12) month period the fine
will increase by fifty percent (50%), and after a fourth infraction by one
hundred percent (100%).
      5.   License Revocation Or Suspension: Failure to pay a fine is grounds
for suspending or revoking a license related to the violation.
SECTION 2 AMENDMENTS.  The text of Title 4, Chapter 4 (Regulating Growth of
Tall Grass and Weeds) of the Baxter City Code is hereby amended by deleting the
stricken material and adding the underlined material as follows:
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Noxious Weeds
4-4-3: Conversion To Turf
4-4-4: Exceptions
4-4-5: Standards For Native Prairie And Forest Restoration
4-4-6: Notice Of Public Nuisance; Abatement; Assessment
4-4-7: Appeal Of Notice
4-4-6: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
GARDEN: A cultivated area dedicated to growing vegetables, fruits, flowers,
ornamental grasses, ground covers, shrubs and similar plants that were planted
in a well defined location.
IDLE ACREAGE OR UNDEVELOPED PLATTED LOT: Areas or a platted lot awaiting
development where the vegetation may have been altered but not converted to
turf.
NATIVE FOREST REMNANT AREA: A native plant landscape area consisting of
indigenous forest plants predominantly nonherbaceous that was purposely left to
grow in a natural state and can maintain itself in a stable condition with
minimal human intervention. Naturally occurring, noninvasive, noxious weeds
such as poison ivy may be allowed to remain and vegetative management and
removal of dead or diseased trees are allowed.
NATIVE FOREST RESTORATION AREA: A native plant landscape area which is being
restored to indigenous forest plants which are predominantly nonherbaceous. A
native forest restoration area does not include gardens.
NATIVE PLANTS: Those grasses, sedges, forbs, trees and shrubs that are plant
species native to or naturalized to the state of Minnesota, excluding
prohibited exotic species, as defined by Minnesota statutes chapter 84D. Native
plants do not include weeds.
NATIVE PRAIRIE RESTORATION AREA: A native plant landscape area which is being
restored to indigenous prairie or grassland plants which are predominantly
herbaceous. A native prairie restoration area does not include gardens.
ORNAMENTAL GRASSES: Grasses that are not indigenous to Minnesota that are
intended to add beauty to a garden. Ornamental grasses do not include turf
grasses or weeds.
TURF GRASS: Commercially available cultured turf grass varieties, including
bluegrass, fescue and ryegrass blends, commonly used in regularly cut lawn
areas.
WEEDS: A. Noxious weeds as defined and designated pursuant to Minnesota
statutes sections 18.76-18.88, as amended, or
B. Any volunteer plants as may be listed by the city weed inspector as
prohibited plants, said list being available at city hall. (Ord. 2009-9, 5-19-
2009)
4-4-2: NOXIOUS WEEDS:
Noxious weeds must be eradicated in all areas of the city according to state
law unless otherwise provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 2009-9, 5-19-2009)
4-4-3: CONVERSION TO TURF:
Once an area has been converted to turf grass, the owner or occupant shall not
allow the turf grass to exceed the height of seven inches (7") or be allowed to
go to seed. Also, other than in the F (Commercial Forest) or RS (Special
Residential/Cluster) District, no owner or occupant shall allow any herbaceous
vegetation growing upon the adjacent City right-of-way to grow to a height
greater than seven inches (7") or to allow such vegetation to go to seed except
as otherwise permitted herein. (Ord. 2009-9, 5-19-2009)
4-4-4: EXCEPTIONS:
Provided the vegetation does not obstruct, block or impede any visual
sightlines or signs required to ensure safe and efficient vehicular traffic
upon City streets, the provisions of section 4-4-2 of this chapter shall not
apply to vegetation that is located:
A. On slopes equal to or steeper than three feet (3') horizontal to one foot
(1') vertical.
B. In a conservation easement.
C. In a garden.
D. In City park lands.
E. In a floodplain area designated on the official zoning map.
F. Within drainage ponds or ditches designed to meet City stormwater conveyance
requirements.
G. Within wetlands.
H. In native forest remnant areas.
I. In native forest or prairie restoration areas provided the standards in this
section are met.
J. Within idle acreage or undeveloped platted lots provided they are mowed
twice a year - once between June 1 and June 15 and once between September 1 and
September 15. (Ord. 2009- 9, 5-19-2009)
4-4-5: STANDARDS FOR NATIVE PRAIRIE AND FOREST RESTORATION:
A. Setbacks From Lot Lines:
1. Not less than ten feet (10') from the front lot line. For the purposes of
this chapter, corner lots shall be deemed to have two (2) front yards and on
riparian lots no setback is required on the lakeside lot line.
2. Not less than five feet (5') from the side and rear lot lines. No such
setback is required if there is an opaque fence along said lot line or if the
native plants abut a neighboring native plant landscape.
3. If the proposed native prairie or forest restoration area is replacing
existing sod/turf, the natural area shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
sod/turf area.
B. Allowed Ground Cover In Setback: The setback area required in subsections A1
and A2 of this section shall be composed of regularly mowed turf grass,
gardens, trees, shrubs, wood chips and/or rock.
C. Plan Approval: A plan setting forth the site layout and management of the
restoration area which is in compliance with section 10-4-8 of this Code must
be submitted by the applicant and approved by the Zoning Administrator before
any native areas may be planted. The Zoning Administrator may refer the plan to
the City Council for recommendation before taking action. (Ord. 2017-007, 8-1-
2017)
4-4-6: NOTICE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT:
A. Nuisance Declared: Failure to comply with the regulations set forth herein
shall constitute a nuisance and the officer charged with the enforcement shall
notify, in writing, both the owner and occupant, if different, of such fact and
order the nuisance to be terminated and abated.
B. Required Notification: The officer charged with enforcement shall notify
both the owner and occupant, if different, by one of the following: personal
service; certified or registered mail; or by posting the property if the
premises are not occupied and the owner is unknown.
C. Contents Of Notice: The notice shall specify the measures that are necessary
to abate the nuisance and the time to abate said nuisance but not to exceed
thirty (30) days.
D. Failure To Comply: If nuisance is not abated in the time specified, the
enforcing officer shall report that fact to the City Council.
E. Abatement By City; Hearing: Upon receiving a report of a failure to comply
in subsection D of this section, the City Council may, after notice to the
owner and/or occupant, schedule a hearing on the matter. Notice of the hearing
shall be served on both the owner and occupant, if different, by one of the
methods set forth in subsection B of this section. Said notice shall be given
at least ten (10) days before the hearing and indicate that the owner and/or
occupant shall have an opportunity to be heard. If the notice is by posting the
property, at least thirty (30) days shall elapse between the day of the posting
and the hearing.
F. Recovery Of Costs: All abatement costs, including administrative, shall be
billed to the property owner by regular mail. The amount shall be immediately
due and payable to the City.
G. Delinquencies: Billings in default shall be charged a ten percent (10%)
surcharge thereon, plus additional late fees shall be assessed every monthly
billing period thereafter using the same calculation and an additional fee
shall be assessed if the City has to certify the delinquent fee to the County
for collection with Real Estate Taxes. In addition, the City reserves the right
to delegate the collection of delinquent accounts to collection agencies under
contract with the City, bring civil action, or collect by any other remedy
available at law.
H. Lien Assessment: Charges levied by and pursuant to this chapter are hereby
made a lien upon the lot, land, or premises served, and all such charges which
are past due and delinquent, shall be certified to the City Clerk, who shall
prepare an assessment roll providing for assessment of the delinquent amount
against the respective property served. The assessment roll shall be delivered
to the City Council for adoption after due notice is given by mail to the
affected property owner. Upon such adoption, the Clerk shall certify the
assessment roll to the County auditor for collection along with taxes as
authorized under Minnesota Statutes section 18.83 after the City Council holds
a public hearing regarding the proposed assessment. To appeal this assessment,
the property owner must present a written objection to the assessment at said
public hearing and then file a District Court action in Crow Wing County within
thirty (30) days of said public hearing. (Ord. 2009-9, 5-19-2009)
4-4-7: APPEAL OF NOTICE:
Any person aggrieved by an order from the City to cut grass and/or weeds on his
or her property may appeal same to the City by filing a written request for a
hearing with the City Clerk Office within five (5) days following service of
the notice to cut. The Council shall hear the appeal after advising the
appellant of the date, time and place of such meeting and shall thereafter
render its decision. (Ord. 2009-9, 5-19-2009)
4-4-6: PENALTY:
This chapter shall be subject to Title 1, Chapter 4, Section 3. Any person
found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code.
SECTION 3 AMENDMENTS.  The text of Title 4, Chapter 1 (Nuisances) of the Baxter
City Code is hereby amended by deleting the stricken material and adding the
underlined material as follows:
SECTION:
4-1-1: Public Nuisance Defined
4-1-2: Nuisances Affecting Health
4-1-3: Nuisances Affecting Morals And Decency
4-1-4: Nuisances Affecting Peace And Safety
4-1-5: Duties Of City Officers
4-1-6: Notice Of Public Nuisance; Abatement
4-1-7: Recovery Of Cost
4-1-8: Penalty
4-1-1: PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED:
Whoever by his act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally does any of
the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is a
misdemeanor:
A. Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures, or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort, or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public; or
B. Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage, any public
highway or right of way, or waters used by the public; or
C. Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or this chapter to be
a public nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically provided. (Ord.
5.1, 6-5-1984)
4-1-2: NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
A. Decayed Or Unwholesome Food Or Vegetable Matter: Exposed accumulation of
decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable matter.
B. Diseased Animals: All diseased animals running at large.
C. Stagnant Water: All ponds or pools of stagnant water.
D. Carcasses: Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within twenty four
(24) hours after death.
E. Manure; Debris: Accumulations of manure, refuse, or other debris.
F. Privy Vaults; Garbage Cans: Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not
rodentfree or flytight or which are so maintained so as to constitute a health
hazard or to emit foul and disagreeable odors.
G. Pollution: The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake,
canal or body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances. (Ord.
5.1, 6-5-1984)
H. Tall Grass And Weeds: Any violation of chapter 4, "Regulating Growth Of Tall
Grass And Weeds", of this title. (Ord. 2009-9, 5-19-2009)
I. Smoke And Fumes: Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities.
J. Contagious Disease: All public exposure of persons having a contagious
disease.
K. Offensive Trade Or Business: Any offensive trade or business as defined by
statute not operating under local license. (Ord. 5.1, 6-5-1984)
4-1-3: NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals and
decency:
A. All gambling devices, slot machines, and punchboards.
B. Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in such occupations.
C. All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdyhouses.
D. All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, persons are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining such a place.
E. Any vehicle used for the transportation of intoxicating liquor, or for
promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal purpose. (Ord.
5.1, 6-5-1984)
F. Notwithstanding the above provisions, any gambling authorized and licensed
by the state of Minnesota pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapter 349 shall not
be considered a nuisance and may be permitted as set forth in said statutes.
(Ord. 2005-2, 1-18-2005)
4-1-4: NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY:
The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and safety:
A. Snow And Ice: All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks twelve (12)
hours after the snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to
fall.
B. Obstructions At Intersections: All trees, hedges, billboards, or other
obstructions which prevent persons from having a clear view of all traffic
approaching an intersection.
C. Wires; Tree Limbs: All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the
surface of a sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or
vehicles.
D. Noises; Vibrations: All unnecessary noises and annoying vibrations.
E. Obstructions; Excavations: Obstructions and excavations affecting the
ordinary use by the public of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds
except under such conditions as are permitted by this code or other applicable
law.
F. Radio Aerials; Television Antennas: Radio aerials or television antennas
erected or maintained in a dangerous manner.
G. Obstruction Of Streets: Any use of property abutting on a public street or
sidewalk or any use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of
people to gather, obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or
sidewalk.
H. Hanging Objects Over Public Ways: All hanging signs, awnings, or other
similar structures over streets and sidewalks, or situated so as to endanger
public safety, or not constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance.
I. Stormwater, Ice Or Snow: The allowing of rainwater, ice, or snow to fall
from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across
any sidewalk.
J. Barbed Wire Fence: Any barbed wire fence less than six feet (6') above the
ground and within three feet (3') of a public sidewalk or way.
K. Dangerous, Unguarded Machinery: All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any
public place, or so situated or operated on private property as to attract the
public.
L. Wastewater: Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public property.
M. Unsheltered Storage; Personal Property; Clutter: No person may place,
permit, store, allow, maintain or leave machinery, implements, equipment,
clutter or personal property, worn out or discarded material, household
appliances or parts, tools, building materials, tin cans, glass, furniture,
mattresses, box springs, crates, cardboard, tires, any other unsightly debris,
brush or materials, or unsheltered storage upon an open space area of any
premises located anywhere in the City, the accumulation of which may have an
adverse effect upon the neighborhood or property values, health, safety or
general welfare of the public. Accumulations: Accumulations in the open of
discarded or disused machinery, household appliances automobile bodies, or
other material, in a manner conducive to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation among the items so accumulated, or
in a manner creating fire, health, or safety hazards from such accumulation.
N. Well, Hole Or Similar Excavation: Any well, hole, or similar excavation
which is left uncovered or in such other condition as to constitute a hazard to
any child or other person coming on the premises where it is located.
O. Obstruction Of Free Flow: Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural
waterway or a public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash or other
materials.
P. Harmful Objects; Placing Or Throwing: The placing or throwing on any street,
sidewalk, or other public property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or
other substance which may injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic
tire when passing over such substance.
Q. Garbage Or Refuse: The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right of
way or on adjacent private property.
R. Other Conditions: All other conditions or things which are likely to cause
injury to the person or property of anyone. (Ord. 5.1, 6-5-1984)
S. Depositing Of Snow: The depositing of snow upon any city street or right of
way except any right of way directly adjacent to the depositor's own driveway.
(Ord. 5.2, 3-6-2001)
 
4-1-5: DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS:
A.      A.   Enforcement OfficersBuilding Inspector: The following individuals
designated in this section, or their designee, shall have the authority to
administer and building inspector shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
relating to nuisances affecting public safety:
 
1.   Building Inspector/Official;
2.   City Administrator;
3.   City Clerk;
 3 4.   Code Enforcement Coordinator;
5.   Community Development Director;
6.   Community Service Officer;
7.   Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, Fire Marshal; and
8.   Public Works Director.
   B.   Police Department: The police department shall enforce provisions
relating to other nuisances and shall assist the other designated officers in
the enforcement of provisions relating to nuisances affecting public safety.
C. Power Of Officials: Such officers shall have the power to inspect private
premises and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and
maintenance of public nuisances. (Ord. 5.1, 6-5-1984)
4-1-6: NOTICE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Emergency Abatement: Whenever the City is made aware of the existence
of a public nuisance, the City will inspect the property on which it is alleged
that such a public nuisance exists. Should the Enforcement Officer determine
that a public nuisance exists and that the public health, safety or welfare may
be in immediate danger, then the City will implement emergency abatement
procedures and the City may cause the nuisance to be removed or abated. When an
Enforcement Officer authorizes emergency abatement, notice to the owner, agent
or occupant of the property is not required. Following emergency abatement, the
City will post a notice on the property describing the action taken to abate
the nuisance.
   1. Special Requirements for Snow and Ice Removal: The City recognizes that
the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks presents a public nuisance
that is an immediate danger to public health, safety and welfare. In the
beginning of winter, the City will remind the general public via various public
education campaigns about snow removal requirements. Therefore, no prior notice
is required in the event that the City needs to abate snow or ice removal. In
addition, the City will not post a notice on the property, but rather the City
will mail the notice to the property owner along with the abatement invoice.
B.   Nuisance Declared; Notice: Whenever the officer charged with enforcement
determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on premises in
the city, but the nature of the nuisance is not such as to require emergency
abatement of the nuisance, then the general abatement procedures will be
followed. tThe officer shall notify, in writing, the owner or occupant of the
premises of such fact and order that such nuisance be terminated and abated.
   BC.   General Abatement Procedure and Service Of Notice:
      1.   In cases where emergency abatement of a public nuisance is not
required, the Enforcement Officer will serve a notice on the owner or occupant,
by certified mail, or by personal service, ordering the owner or occupant to
remove the public nuisance. Personal Service; Certified, Registered Mail: The
notice shall be served in person or by certified or registered mail.
      2.   Posting: If the premises are not occupied and the owner is unknown,
the notice may be served by posting it on the premises.
   DC.   Contents Of Notice: The notice shall contain the following
information: 
1.   Address of the premises where the nuisance is located;
2.   The nature of the nuisance to be abated specify theand steps to be taken
to abate the nuisance;
3.   A statement that in the event the owner or occupant does not coply with
the notice, the City or a contractor selected by the City may perform the
necessary work;
4.   A statement that if the owner or occupant does not pay for the expense,
the cost of the work will be assessed against the property; and
5.   A compliance deadline and the time, not exceeding thirty (30) days, within
which the nuisance is to be abated.
   E D.   Failure To Comply: The Enforcement Officer is authorized to enter in
or upon the premises or structure for the purpose of enforcing and ensuring
compliance with the provisions of this section. If the notice is not complied
with within the time specified, the City has the authority to enter upon the
property and abate the public nuisance. In abating the nuisance, the City may
go to whatever extent necessary to complete the abatement of the public
nuisance, including obtaining a court order. The City may call upon any of the
City departments or divisions for whatever assistance is deemed necessary or
may by private contract cause the abatement of the public nuisance. enforcing
officer shall report that fact forthwith to the council.
6.   If any material derived from the abatement is salvageable, and the City
does not receive a notice of appeal pursuant to subdivision F below, the City
may sell or otherwise dispose of the salvaged material with the proceeds from
the sale going to the City’s general fund.
   F E.  Abatement invoice. If the City performs the abatement work pursuant to
this section, the City will maintain a record showing the cost of the work
attributable to each separate lot and parcel. Abatement costs shall include,
but are not limited to, the cost of the abatement, the cost of investigation,
such as title searches, inspection and testing, the cost of notification,
filing costs and administrative costs. 
G. Appeals: An owner or responsible party may appeal an abatement notice of
abatement letter for an abatement action by following the procedures to appeal
an administrative citation set forth in City Code §1-4-3, Subdivision C. Any
personal property of value or salvageable property coming into possession of
the City during the course of the abatement pursuant to subdivision E above
will be stored by the City pending the outcome of the appeal. Abatement By
City; Hearing: Thereafter the council may, after notice to the owner or
occupant and an opportunity to be heard, provide for abating the nuisance by
the city. The notice shall be served in the same manner as notice by the
enforcing officer is served and shall be given at least ten (10) days before
the date stated in the notice when the council will consider the matter. If
notice is given by posting, at least thirty (30) days shall elapse between the
day of posting and the hearing. (Ord. 5.1, 6-5-1984)
4-1-7: RECOVERY OF COST:
   A.   Personal Liability: The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the city clerk or other official designated
by the council shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner.
Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the
city clerk.
   B.   Assessment: If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on
private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks, the
growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled portion of streets,
or unsound or insect infected trees, the clerk shall, on or before September 1
next following abatement of the nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along
with all other such charges as well as other charges for current services to be
assessed under Minnesota statutes section 429.101 against each separate lot or
parcel to which the charges are attributable. The council may then spread the
charges against such property under that statute and other pertinent statutes
for certification to the county auditor and collection along with current taxes
the following year or in annual installments not exceeding ten (10), as the
council may determine in each case. (Ord. 5.1, 6-5-1984)
4-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section  1-4-1 of
this code, plus the costs of prosecution. (Ord. 5.1, 6-5-1984; amd. 2002 Code)
SECTION 4.   EFFECTIVE DATE. This amendment shall take effect upon its passage
and publication.
SECTION 5.   SUMMARY PUBLICATION. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section
412.191, in the case of a lengthy ordinance, a summary may be published. While
a copy of the entire ordinance is available without cost at the office of the
City Clerk, the following summary is approved by the City Council and shall be
published in lieu of publishing the entire ordinance:
The City Council adopted an ordinance amending Title 1 as it pertains to
Alternative Methods of Enforcement to better utilize administrative citation
procedures and Title 4 as it pertains to the enforcement and abatement of
nuisances.
Whereupon, said Ordinance is hereby declared adopted on this 15th day of July,
2025.
_____________________________
Darrel Olson, Mayor
ATTEST:
 
__________________________
Kelly Steele, City Clerk               City Seal
 
 
 
 
Notes
1 This title may change.
2 We can certainly keep the provision that the fine increases if a repeat
  violation, I would suggest we do that in the fee schedule instead of here.
3 Change title if needed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Baxter. This city code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the BAXTER CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents 1 . (2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. M.S.A. § 415.021.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2002 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall comply with the procedure set out in
the city charter. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be
immediately forwarded to the codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall
be prepared for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this city code.
Each such replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted
in each individual copy of the city code. (2002 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the city
clerk. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2002 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2002 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2002 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2002 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Baxter, county of Crow Wing, state of Minnesota.
CODE: The city code of the city of Baxter.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Baxter.
COUNTY: The county of Crow Wing, state of Minnesota.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Baxter".
EX OFFICIO MEMBER: Ex officio members of a commission shall have the right to
participate in discussions but shall have no vote and shall not be counted in
determining if a majority of the members are present for a quorum.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health, safety and
welfare of inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation
can reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person
or persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Baxter".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Minnesota.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2002 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty Provisions
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Alternative Methods Of Enforcement
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY PROVISIONS:
   A.   Misdemeanors: Unless another penalty is expressly provided in this code
and except for the provisions of subsection B of this section, any person
violating any provisions of this code or any rule or regulation adopted or
issued in pursuance thereof or any provision of any code adopted herein by
reference shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine or by imprisonment, or
both established in Minnesota statutes section 609.02 subdivision 3, as amended
from time to time.
   B.   Petty Misdemeanors: Any person convicted of a petty misdemeanor shall
be subject to a fine of not more than the maximum fine set by Minnesota
statutes section 609.02 subdivision 4a, as amended from time to time.
   C.   Administrative Offenses: Any person violating an administrative rule
shall be subject to the scheduled penalty not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each offense.
   D.   Separate Violations: Unless otherwise provided, each act of violation
and every day upon which a violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate
offense.
   E.   Failure Of Officers To Perform Duties: The failure of any officer or
employee of the city to perform any official duty imposed by this code shall
not subject such officer or employee to the penalty imposed for violation of
this code unless a penalty is specifically provided for such conduct or
omission. (2002 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Amendments, Codes Adopted By Reference: The penalties provided by this
chapter or any section of this code apply to the amendment of any section of
this code or any code adopted herein by reference to which the penalty relates,
whether or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory provision, unless
otherwise provided in the amendment.
   C.   Penalty Section Included: Reference to any sections of this code shall
be understood also to refer to and include the penalty section relating
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   D.   One Judgment Only: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   E.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2002 Code)
1-4-3: ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Purpose: The city council finds that there is a need for alternative
methods of enforcing this code. While criminal fines and penalties have been
the most frequent enforcement mechanism, there are certain negative
consequences for both the city and the accused. The delay inherent in that
system does not ensure prompt resolution. Citizens resent being labeled as
criminals for violations of administrative regulations. The higher burden of
proof and the potential of incarceration do not appear appropriate for most
administrative violations. The criminal process does not always regard city
code violations as being important. Accordingly, the city council finds that
the use of administrative citations and the imposition of civil penalties is a
legitimate and necessary alternative method of enforcement. This method of
enforcement is in addition to any other legal remedy that may be pursued for
this code's violations.
   B.   General Provisions:
      1.   Administrative Offense: A violation of any provision of this code is
an administrative offense that may be subject to an administrative citation and
civil penalties. Each day a violation exists constitutes a separate offense.
      2.   Exemption: Alcohol and tobacco license violations are not subject to
administrative citation under this section.
      3.   Civil Penalty: An administrative offense may be subject to a civil
penalty not to exceed the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor violation under
state law.
      4.   Schedule Of Fines And Fees: The city council must adopt by
resolution a schedule of fines for offenses initiated by administrative
citation. The city council is not bound by that schedule when a matter is
appealed to it for administrative review under subsection F of this section.
The city council may adopt a schedule of fees to be paid to administrative
hearing officers.
   C.   Administrative Citation Procedures:
      1.   Administrative Notice:
         a.   Upon the first violation, the city may issue an administrative
notice to the violator. The city will deliver the administrative notice to the
violator in person or by regular mail. The violator will have ten (10) calendar
days to correct the violation after issuance of the administrative notice.
         b.   If the violator is making a good faith attempt to remedy the
violation, the city may grant an extension, the length of which must be agreed
upon in writing between the city and the violator.
         c.   The city is not required to give such notice and the city, in its
sole discretion, may determine that the violation needs no notice since it is
presumed that the public is clearly on notice that the conduct is in violation
of this code. In such cases, the city shall immediately issue the
administrative citation as set forth in subsection C2 of this section.
      2.   Administrative Citation: If the violator fails to correct the
violation within the time period provided in the administrative notice, the
city may issue an administrative citation. The city must issue the citation to
the violator in person or by certified and regular mail. In the case of a
vehicular offense, the citation may be attached to the motor vehicle. The
citation must state the date, time, and nature of the offense, the name of the
issuing officer, the amount of the scheduled fine, and the manner for paying
the fine or appealing the citation.
      3.   Payment: The violator must either pay the scheduled fine or request
a hearing within seven (7) days after issuance of the citation. Penalties for
failure to correct the violation or late payment of the fine may be imposed as
set forth in subsection G4 of this section. The city may issue a second
citation or take other legal action to achieve compliance with the ordinances.
   D.   Administrative Hearing:
      1.   Hearing Officers: The city council will periodically approve a list
of qualified individuals, from which the city clerk will randomly select a
hearing officer to hear and determine a matter for which a hearing is
requested. The hearing officer will be a public officer as defined by Minnesota
statutes section 609.415. The hearing officer must not be a city employee. The
city clerk must establish a procedure for evaluating the competency of the
hearing officer, including comments from accused violators and city staff.
These reports must be provided to the city council.
      2.   Removal Of Hearing Officer: No later than five (5) days before the
date of the hearing, the violator may make a written request that the assigned
hearing officer be removed from the case. The city clerk will automatically
grant one request for removal. A subsequent request must be directed to the
assigned hearing officer who will decide whether they can fairly and
objectively review the case. If the hearing officer determines they cannot
fairly and objectively review the case, the hearing officer shall notify the
city clerk in writing at least one day before the scheduled hearing date. The
city clerk will then assign another hearing officer.
      3.   Notice Of Hearing: Within thirty (30) days of the request for a
hearing, the city clerk will schedule the hearing and will notify the violator
and involved city staff of the date, time and place for the hearing. Parties
are expected to be available for two (2) hours. Notice of the hearing must be
mailed to the violator and the hearing officer at least ten (10) days in
advance of the scheduled hearing, unless a shorter time is accepted by all
parties. The notice must contain the names of the parties, the identity of the
hearing officer, the location of the alleged violation and the type of
violation alleged;
      4.   Continuance: A request for a continuance must be made to the city
clerk at least five (5) days prior to the scheduled hearing date. The city
clerk may grant a continuance at the request of the violator or the city staff
member only for good cause shown and for no more than ten (10) days from the
originally assigned date.
      5.   File Transmittal:
         a.   Upon receipt of any request for a hearing the city clerk's office
will compile a summary report detailing the facts in support of any
determination that the offense constitutes a violation. The summary report will
include:
            (1)   Copy of the citation issued;
            (2)   Copy of the administrative notice, which preceded the
citation;
            (3)   Copy of any case history in the issuing employee's
department;
            (4)   Photographs and/or videotape of property where available;
            (5)   Proof of mailing and/or posting of notice on the property if
the citation was not personally served on the violator.
         b.   The file must be ready for the hearing officer to pick up on the
business day preceding the scheduled hearing.
      6.   Presentation Of Case: At the hearing, the parties will have the
opportunity to present testimony and question any witnesses, but strict rules
of evidence will not apply. The hearing officer must tape record the hearing
and receive testimony and exhibits. The hearing officer must receive and give
weight to evidence, including hearsay evidence, that possesses probative value
commonly accepted by reasonable and prudent people in the conduct of their
affairs.
      7.   Decision:
         a.   The hearing officer must issue a written decision containing
findings of fact, conclusions of law and an order. The decision will be mailed
to the parties within ten (10) days after the hearing. The hearing officer has
the authority to determine that a violation occurred, to dismiss a citation, to
impose the scheduled fine, and to reduce, stay, or waive a scheduled fine
either unconditionally or upon compliance with appropriate conditions. When
imposing a penalty for a violation, the hearing officer may consider any or all
of the following factors:
            (1)   Duration of the violation;
            (2)   Frequency of reoccurrence of the violation;
            (3)   Seriousness of the violation;
            (4)   History of the violation;
            (5)   Violator's conduct after issuance of the administrative
notice and citation;
            (6)   Violator's conduct after issuance of the notice of hearing;
            (7)   Good faith effort by the violator to comply;
            (8)   Impact of the violation upon the community;
            (9)   Prior record of city code violations; and
            (10)   Any other factors appropriate to a just result.
         b.   The hearing officer may not impose a fine greater than the
established fine, except that the hearing officer may impose a fine for each
week that the violation continues if: 1) the violation caused or is causing a
serious threat of harm to the public health, safety, or welfare or 2) the
violator intentionally and unreasonably refused or refuses to comply with the
code requirement.
      8.   Decision: Except as provided in subsections E and F of this section,
the decision of the hearing officer is final without any further right of
appeal.
      9.   Failure To Appear: The failure to attend the hearing constitutes a
waiver of the violator's rights to an administrative hearing and an admission
of the violation. A hearing officer may waive this result upon good cause
shown. Examples of "good cause" are: death in the immediate family or
documented incapacitating illness of the violator; a court order requiring the
violator to appear for another hearing at the same time; and lack of proper
service of the citation or notice of the hearing. "Good cause" does not
include: forgetfulness; lack of transportation or childcare; and intentional
delay.
   E.   Judicial Review:
      1.   Decision Review: An aggrieved party may obtain judicial review of
the decision of the hearing officer as provided in state law.
      2.   Option To Withdraw: These procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with administrative offenses. The
individual may withdraw from participation in this administrative process by
submitting a written request for withdrawal to the city clerk within seven (7)
days of the issuance of the administrative citation. Upon receiving this
written request, the city may bring criminal or other civil charges according
to this code and state law. Likewise, nothing in this section shall prohibit
the city, in its discretion, to initiate criminal charges or any other remedy
in lieu of the administrative procedures herein set forth.
   F.   Administrative Review:
      1.   Appeal: A violator may appeal the hearing officer's decision in any
of the following matters to the city council for administrative review:
         a.   An alleged failure to obtain a permit, license or other approval
from the city council as required by an ordinance;
         b.   An alleged violation of a permit, license, other approval, or the
conditions attached to the permit, license, or approval, that was granted by
the city council; or
         c.   An alleged violation of regulations governing a person or entity
who has received a license granted by the city council.
      2.   Notice: The appeal under this section will be heard by the city
council. Notice of the hearing must be delivered to the alleged violator or
property owner and involved city staff, in person or by mail at least ten (10)
days in advance of the hearing. The parties to the hearing will have an
opportunity to present oral or written arguments regarding the hearing
officer's decision.
      3.   Decisions: The city council must consider the record, the hearing
officer's decision, and any additional arguments before making a determination.
The council is not bound by the hearing officer's decision, but may adopt all
or part of the officer's decision. The council's decision must be in writing.
      4.   Suspension Or Revocation: In addition to imposing a civil penalty,
the council may suspend or revoke a city issued license, permit, or other
approvals associated with the violation.
   G.   Recovery Of Civil Penalties:
      1.   Nonpayment: If a civil penalty is not paid within the time
specified, it will constitute:
         a.   A lien on the real property upon which the violation occurred if
the property or improvements on the property was the subject of the violation
and the property owner was found responsible for that violation; or
         b.   A personal obligation of the violator in all other situations.
      2.   Lien: A lien may be assessed against the property and collected in
the same manner as taxes.
      3.   Personal Obligation: A personal obligation may be collected by
appropriate legal means.
      4.   Late Fees/Charges:
         a.   If after seven (7) days the fine has not been paid or a hearing
requested, the fine will increase by ten percent (10%) for each seven (7) days
thereafter for one month. After four (4) weeks and four (4) late fee charges
have been added to the original fine, the total bill will be assessed to the
property taxes and all city licenses will be revoked. For continued violations,
the city will correct the violation and assess the charges for doing so onto
the property taxes or criminal charges may be filed.
         b.   If the same property and property owner are charged with a
subsequent violation within a twelve (12) month period for the same, or
substantially similar offense, the fine will be increased by twenty five
percent (25%). After a third infraction in a twelve (12) month period the fine
will increase by fifty percent (50%), and after a fourth infraction by one
hundred percent (100%).
      5.   License Revocation Or Suspension: Failure to pay a fine is grounds
for suspending or revoking a license related to the violation.
   H.   Criminal Penalties:
      1.   The following are misdemeanors, punishable in accordance with state
law:
         a.   Failure, without good cause, to pay a fine or request a hearing
within thirty (30) days after issuance of an administrative citation;
         b.   Failure, without good cause, to appear at a hearing that was
scheduled under subsection F of this section;
         c.   Failure to pay a fine imposed by a hearing officer within thirty
(30) days after it was imposed, or such other time as may be established by the
hearing officer.
      2.   If the final adjudication in the administrative penalty procedure is
a finding of no violation, then the city may not prosecute a criminal violation
in district court based on the same set of facts. This does not preclude the
city from pursuing a criminal conviction for a violation of the same provisions
based on a different set of facts. A different date of violation will
constitute a different set of facts. (Ord. 2004-4, 2-17-2004)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Mayor, Term Of Office
1-5-2: Council Meetings
1-5-3: Ordinance Numbering System
1-5-1: MAYOR, TERM OF OFFICE:
Pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 412.022, the term of office for the
mayor of the city shall be four (4) years. (Ord. 67, 6-4-1996)
1-5-2: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: A regular meeting of the council shall be held on the
first and third Tuesday of each month, beginning at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.,
central standard time or central daylight time, as appropriate.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the council may be held from time
to time upon call of the mayor or any other two (2) members of the council,
with the time of the meeting to be set at the time it is called.
   C.   Location: All meetings of the council shall be held in the city hall
unless the council, for sufficient cause, at its discretion or because of
catastrophe, may declare that a meeting be held in the Baxter school. Such
regular meetings as are held in the Baxter school shall be held at the same
time and on the same day as the above scheduled regular meetings.
   D.   Holidays; Election Days: In the event of a conflict with a legal
holiday or federal, state or city election day, the regularly scheduled meeting
shall be set ahead to the first business day following the day of conflict.
(Ord. 1.3, 4-3-1979)
1-5-3: ORDINANCE NUMBERING SYSTEM:
   A.   Original Ordinances: All original city ordinances shall be numbered
consecutively by whole numbers: 1, 2, 3, 4, etc., in order by date passed.
   B.   Amendments: Amendments to city ordinances shall be numbered with the
same whole number as the original ordinance on that same subject and following
this number, there shall be a decimal point and consecutively ascending decimal
numbers to designate each separate amendment to the original ordinances: 1,
1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, etc., in order by date passed. (Ord. 13, 2-7-1967)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: City Administrator
1-6-2: Salaries Of Officers
1-6-3: Employee Criminal History Background Investigations
1-6-1: CITY ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Position Created: The city hereby creates the position of city
administrator.
   B.   Chief Administrative Officer: The city administrator shall be the chief
administrative officer and shall be responsible to the city council.
   C.   Appointment: The city administrator shall be appointed by the city
council based on training, experience and qualifications.
   D.   Term: The city administrator shall serve for an indefinite period and
the city council may set employment terms. (Ord. 47.1, 7-6-1993; amd. 2002
Code)
   E.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Delegated By Council: The city council shall delegate to the city
administrator whatever powers and duties they deem necessary or proper for the
efficient administration of city affairs pursuant to state law. Such duties
shall be formally adopted in the official job description. The assistant city
administrator, however, shall serve as city clerk for the city of Baxter. The
city council may at any time rescind or amend authority delegated to the city
administrator. (Ord. 47.2, 9-4-2001)
      2.   Power Of Council To Rescind Or Amend: The city council may at any
time rescind or amend authority delegated to the city administrator.
   F.   City Clerk:
      1.   Positions Combined: The position of city clerk and city
administrator are hereby combined into the position of city administrator-
clerk.
      2.   Duties: The duties assigned by statute to the clerk shall be
performed by the administrator-clerk.
      3.   Delegation Of Duties: The city administrator-clerk may delegate any
duties he/she may deem appropriate and allowable by statute to a deputy clerk
pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 412.151. (Ord. 49, 1-2-1990)
   G.   Clerk-Treasurer:
      1.   Purpose: This subsection is adopted for the purpose of combining the
offices of city clerk and city treasurer pursuant to Minnesota statutes section
412.591 and to delegate financial duties to provide for efficient and orderly
administration of city business.
      2.   Appointment; Delegation; Audit:
         a.   Appointment: The city administrator shall be appointed city
clerk-treasurer.
         b.   City Finance Officer: Pursuant to state law, bookkeeping duties
of the city clerk-treasurer shall be delegated to the city finance officer. The
city finance officer shall also serve as city deputy treasurer.
         c.   Annual Audit: An annual audit of the city's financial affairs
shall be provided pursuant to state law and in accordance with the standards of
the state auditor.
      3.   Office Of City Treasurer Terminated: The office of city treasurer is
terminated effective September 30, 1994. (Ord. 58, 9-6-1994)
1-6-2: SALARIES OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Mayor: The salary of the mayor of the city shall be as shown on the fee
schedule on file in the office of the city clerk.
   B.   Councilpersons: The salary of each of the councilpersons shall be as
shown on the fee schedule on file in the office of the city clerk.
   C.   Special Meetings: That the mayor and councilpersons shall be
compensated in the amount as shown on the fee schedule on file in the office of
the city clerk for each special meeting held during the month.
   D.   Payment Date: The monthly salary for the mayor, and councilpersons
shall be paid at the first regular monthly meeting of each month, for the
current month, and the compensation for each special meeting shall be paid at
the next regular meeting. (Ord. 16.4, 8-21-1984; amd. 2002 Code)
1-6-3: EMPLOYEE CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS:
This section shall provide for criminal history background investigations for
applicants for certain paid or volunteer positions with the city as follows:
   A.   Authority To Conduct: The Baxter police department is hereby directed
to conduct a Minnesota criminal history background investigation on applicants
for positions with the city, as provided by this section. The data received as
a result of this investigation must be maintained by the police department but
may be used for the screening of applicants for these positions.
   B.   Applicability: This section applies only to applicants who are
finalists for paid or volunteer positions with the city, where the city
administrator has determined that conviction of a crime may relate directly to
the position sought, such as positions that deal with city funds, personnel
matters or supervisory tasks.
   C.   FBI Investigation: Positions which require working with children or
vulnerable adults will mandate an additional FBI investigation at which time a
fingerprint card must be submitted.
   D.   Consent Required: The police department may not perform a background
investigation unless the applicant consents, in writing, to the investigation
and to the release of the investigation information to the city administrator
and other city staff as is appropriate. An applicant's failure to provide
consent may disqualify the applicant for the position sought.
   E.   Administration: In administering this section, the city will comply
with Minnesota statutes chapter 364, as may be applicable.
   F.   Reasons For Denial: The city of Baxter shall notify applicants who are
denied employment based on the Minnesota criminal history background
investigation of the reason(s) for denial. (Ord. 2010-5, 4-20-2010)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Date For Regular Elections
1-7-2: Election Judges
1-7-3: Polling Places
1-7-4: Absentee Ballot Precinct
1-7-1: DATE FOR REGULAR ELECTIONS:
The date for the annual election of City elective officials shall be the first
Tuesday after the first Monday in November of each year. (Ord. 18, 11-28-1967;
amd. 2002 Code)
1-7-2: ELECTION JUDGES:
The designated judges for Federal, State and/or County elections held at the
same time and place in the City shall serve as judges for the City election.
(Ord. 18, 11-28-1967)
1-7-3: POLLING PLACES:
   A.   The polling place for precinct 1E shall be at Lord of Life Lutheran
Church for persons living within the boundaries north of Highway 210 from the
east side of Memorywood Drive to Clearwater Road and from the south side of
Clearwater Road to the east side of Inglewood Drive to the City's northern and
eastern boundaries.
   B.   The polling place for precinct 1W shall be at Baxter City Hall for
persons living within the boundaries north of Highway 210 from the west side of
Memorywood Drive to the north side of Clearwater Road to the west side of
Inglewood Drive to the City's northern and western boundaries.
   C.   The polling place for precinct 2E shall be at Heritage Assembly of God
Church youth building for persons living within the boundaries south of Highway
210 from the east side of Knollwood Drive to the north side of Highland Scenic
Road to the east side of Highway 371 to the City's southern and eastern
boundaries.
   D.   The polling place for precinct 2W shall be at Lakewood Evangelical Free
Church for persons living within the boundaries south of Highway 210 from the
west side of Knollwood Drive to the south side of Highland Scenic Road to the
west side of Highway 371 to the City's western and southern boundaries. (Ord.
2017-003, 5-16-2017)
1-7-4: ABSENTEE BALLOT PRECINCT:
   A.   Establishment: Pursuant to the provisions of Minnesota Statutes section
203B.13, the City Council hereby authorizes the Crow Wing County Commissioners
to establish an absentee ballot precinct, to be located in the Crow Wing County
Courthouse complex, for the purpose of receiving all absentee ballots for any
primary or general election or special referendum held within the City.
   B.   Supervision; Cost: The absentee ballot precinct shall be under the
direct charge and supervision of the Crow Wing County auditor and shall be
administered pursuant to the Minnesota election laws without cost to the City.
(Ord. 43, 8-7-1984)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Deferral
1-8-2: Prepayment
1-8-3: Fees
1-8-1: DEFERRAL:
   A.   Eligibility: The council may defer the payment of any special
assessment on homestead property owned by a person who is sixty five (65) years
of age or older, retired by reason of permanent and total disability, or is a
member of the Minnesota national guard or other military reserves ordered into
active military service, when payment of the assessment would create a hardship
upon the property owner as defined herein.
   B.   Application; Annual Renewal: The deferment shall be granted upon a
certification by the owner on a form prescribed by the county auditor,
supplemented by the city clerk, to establish the qualification of the owner for
such deferment. The application shall be made to the city clerk and shall be
reviewed each following year upon the filing of a similar application not later
than August 31.
   C.   Council Action: The council shall either grant or deny deferment; and
if it grants the deferment, it may require the payment of the interest due each
year.
   D.   Notice To County Auditor: If the council grants the deferment, the
clerk shall notify the county auditor, who shall, in accordance with Minnesota
statutes section 435.194, record a notice of the deferment with the county
recorder setting forth the amount of the assessment.
   E.   Hardship:
      1.   Criteria: A hardship shall be deemed prima facie to exist, when all
of the conditions outlined in the city's special assessment policy are met.
      2.   Exceptional And Unusual Circumstances: Notwithstanding the foregoing
provision of this subsection, the city council may consider exceptional and
unusual circumstances pertaining to an applicant not covered by the above; but
any determination shall be made in a nondiscriminatory manner and shall not
give the applicant an unreasonable preference or advantage over other
applicants.
   F.   Disability: Retirement by reason of permanent and total disability
shall be deemed prima facie to exist when the applicant presents a sworn
affidavit by a licensed medical doctor attesting that the applicant is unable
to be gainfully employed because of a permanent and total disability in any
occupation for which he might be qualified.
   G.   Termination: The option to defer the payment of special assessments
shall terminate and all amounts accumulated, plus applicable interest, shall
become due upon the occurrence of any one of the following events:
      1.   Death: The death of the owner when there is no spouse who is
eligible for deferment;
      2.   Disposition Of Property: The sale, transfer, or subdivision of all
or any part of the property;
      3.   Loss Of Homestead Status: Loss of homestead status on the property;
      4.   Determination Of Council: Determination by the council, for any
reason, that there would be no hardship to require immediate or partial
payment; or
      5.   Failure To Renew: Failure to file a renewal application within the
time prescribed by subsection B of this section.
Upon the occurrence of one of the events specified above, the council shall
terminate the deferment. Thereupon, the city clerk shall notify the county
assessor and the county auditor of the termination, including the amounts
accumulated on unpaid installments, plus applicable interest, which shall
become due and payable as a result of the termination. (Ord. 2014-17, 5-20-
2014)
1-8-2: PREPAYMENT:
From and after the effective date hereof, on all special assessment projects,
citizens of the city against whom such special assessments have been levied may
make partial prepayment of these assessments after the assessment resolution
has been adopted by the city; provided, that such payment is made to the city
clerk, and that payment is received by the city clerk prior to the
certification of the assessment to the Crow Wing County auditor's office. (Ord.
50, 10-17-1989)
1-8-3: FEES:
The city shall charge an administrative fee, the amount of which will be as
shown on the annual fee schedule set by resolution each year, on any assessment
that it must file that is not preceded by a formal assessment hearing unless
waived by written agreement. Examples of such assessments would be
reallocations or other amendments to existing assessments, assessments done by
agreement or assessments completed pursuant to this code such as subsection 8-
1-10D of this code where an assessment is a form of code enforcement. (Ord.
2008-3, 2-19-2008)
CHAPTER 9
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-9-1: Disposition Of Unclaimed Property
1-9-1-1: Storage
1-9-1-2: Redemption By Owner
1-9-1-3: Public Auction
1-9-1-4: Proceeds Of Sale
1-9-1: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
All property lawfully coming into the possession of the city and unclaimed by
its owner shall be disposed of as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984;
amd. 2002 Code)
1-9-1-1: STORAGE:
The department of the city into whose possession property comes shall arrange
for storage of the same. If municipal facilities for storage are unavailable or
inadequate, arrangements for storage at privately-owned facilities may be
arranged. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984)
1-9-1-2: REDEMPTION BY OWNER:
The owner of the property may claim the same by exhibiting satisfactory proof
of ownership and paying the city any storage or maintenance costs incurred by
the city. A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon release to the
owner. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984)
1-9-1-3: PUBLIC AUCTION:
In the event that the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the city
for a period of sixty (60) days, the property shall thereafter be sold to the
highest bidder at a public auction conducted by the city clerk. Such auction
shall be held after ten (10) days' published notice setting forth the time and
place thereof and the property to be sold. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984; amd. 2002 Code)
1-9-1-4: PROCEEDS OF SALE:
Net proceeds from the sale of such property after deduction of storage costs
incurred, if any, shall be placed in the treasury of the city, subject to the
right of the former owner to payment of the sale price to him from the fund
upon application and satisfactory proof of ownership within six (6) months of
the sale. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984)
CHAPTER 10
FEES, RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
1-10-1: License Fees
1-10-2: Permit Fees
1-10-3: Water And Sewer Rates
1-10-4: Planning And Zoning Fee Schedules
1-10-5: Requirements Of City Approval
1-10-1: LICENSE FEES 1 :
Annual license fees shall be paid for the period of July 1 through June 30 of
the following year. The actual fee due is as set forth in the license fee
schedule adopted annually by the city council. A copy of said fee schedule is
available at city hall. (Ord. 2009-2, 2-17-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3 of this code for license regulations.
1-10-2: PERMIT FEES:
The actual fee due is as set forth in the permit fee schedule adopted annually
by the city council. A copy of said fee schedule is available at city hall.
(Ord. 2009-2, 2-17-2009)
1-10-3: WATER AND SEWER RATES 1 :
The various rates and charges related to the use and connection to city
utilities shall be as set forth in the water and sewer fee schedule adopted
annually by the city council. A copy of said fee schedule is available at city
hall. (Ord. 2009-2, 2-17-2009)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 8, chapters 2 and 3 of this code for regulations.
1-10-4: PLANNING AND ZONING FEE SCHEDULES:
The various rates and charges related to planning and zoning shall be as set
forth in the planning and zoning fee schedule adopted annually by the city
council. A copy of said fee schedule is available at city hall.
The planning and zoning fee schedule as set forth above shall be the minimum
fee required. The city, in its sole discretion, may choose to bill the
applicant pursuant to the actual time spent by city staff regarding the
application. In such cases, the hourly rate and itemization of time spent shall
be submitted to the applicant as part of the billing procedure. (Ord. 2009-2,
2-17-2009)
1-10-5: REQUIREMENTS OF CITY APPROVAL:
No city official, board, council or other city entity may grant a license,
permit or other form of city approval or authorization to any person or entity
unless:
   A.   The person has complied with all relevant statutory and ordinance
requirements.
   B.   The person has paid all fees, charges, taxes, special assessments, or
other debt or obligation owed by the person to the city regarding any other
matter; and
   C.   The person is in compliance with all ordinance requirements and
previously imposed conditions of approval regarding any other city approval or
authorization that was granted to the person.
   D.   For the purposes of this section, "person" shall mean an individual or
any entity in which that individual is at least a twenty percent (20%) owner
therein.
   E.   This section shall not apply if the person has provided sufficient
safeguards to assure payment or compliance within a reasonable time or if
enforcement of this section would result in a significant hardship to the
person through no fault of his or her own. (Ord. 2006-4, 1-17-2006)
CHAPTER 11
SALES AND USE TAX; MOTOR VEHICLE EXCISE TAX
SECTION:
1-11-1: Authority
1-11-2: Definitions
1-11-3: Imposed; Sales And Use Tax
1-11-4: Imposed; Excise Tax
1-11-5: Charged Separately, Computation; Sales And Use Tax
1-11-6: Exemption Certificate
1-11-7: Presumption Of Purpose Of Sale
1-11-8: Collection Of Sales And Use Tax At Time Of Sale
1-11-9: Agent Of Retailer
1-11-10: Effective Date, Transitional Sales
1-11-11: Collection And Enforcement
1-11-12: Tax Clearance Issuance Of Licenses
1-11-1: AUTHORITY:
The Minnesota legislature has, by laws of Minnesota 2006, chapter 259, article
3, section 10, and laws of Minnesota 2014, chapter 308, article 3, sections 24-
26, authorized the city of Baxter to impose a one-half percent (1/2%) sales and
use tax and an excise tax of up to twenty dollars ($20.00) per motor vehicle to
assist in financing the acquisition and betterment of water and wastewater
facilities and building and equipping a fire substation, as approved by the
voters at the referendum on November 2, 2004, and financing the acquisition and
betterment of sanitary sewer, storm sewer, and water projects, and
transportation safety improvements, and improvements to the Brainerd Lakes
Regional Airport as approved by the voters at the referendum on November 4,
2014, respectively, authorizing the tax. The city of Baxter approved the act in
accordance with applicable law. (Ord. 2015-01, 1-20-2015)
1-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
The words, terms and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in Minnesota statutes section 297A, except where the context
clearly indicates otherwise. In addition, the following definitions shall
apply:
ACT: Laws of Minnesota 2006, chapter 259, article 3, section 10 as amended by
laws of Minnesota 2014, chapter 308, article 3, sections 24-26.
BAXTER SALES AND USE TAX: The sales and use tax imposed and collected pursuant
to this chapter.
CITY: The city of Baxter.
COMMISSIONER: The commissioner of revenue for the state of Minnesota acting
under the authority of an agreement entered into between the city and the state
of Minnesota pursuant to the act, or such other person or entity designated to
administer and collect the Baxter tax.
DEALER: A person as defined by Minnesota statutes section 168.011, subd. 21,
and licensed by the commissioner of public safety pursuant to Minnesota
statutes chapter 168, and engaged in the city in the business of selling motor
vehicles at retail.
DIRECTOR: The director of the department of finance of the city.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any of the following as otherwise defined by Minnesota statutes
section 168.011: a) a "passenger vehicle"; b) a "bus" or "intercity bus"; c) a
"truck"; d) a "truck-tractor"; e) a "station wagon"; f) a "van"; g) a "pickup
truck"; h) "recreational equipment" which is self-propelled.
ORDINANCE: This ordinance in its present form and as subsequently codified in
this code.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THE CITY (Or Any Like Term): Any
retailer having or maintaining within the city, directly or by a subsidiary or
an affiliate, an office, place of distribution, sales or sample room or place,
warehouse or other place of business, or having any representative, including
an affiliate, agent, salesperson, canvasser or solicitor operating in the city
under the authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, for any purpose,
including the repairing, selling, delivering, installation, or soliciting of
orders of the retailer's goods or services, or the leasing of tangible personal
property located in the city, whether the place of business or agent,
representative, affiliate, salesperson, canvasser, or solicitor, is located in
the city permanently or temporarily, or whether or not the retailer or
subsidiary is authorized to do business within the city. (Ord. 2006-20, 6-6-
2006; amd. Ord. 2015-01, 1-20-2015)
1-11-3: IMPOSED; SALES AND USE TAX:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, there is hereby imposed an
additional excise tax in the amount of one-half of one percent of the gross
receipts from the sales at retail, and the storage, use, distribution or
consumption of goods or services which are taxable, pursuant to Minnesota
statutes chapter 297A and occur within the city of Baxter. The imposition,
administration, collection and enforcement of this tax shall be governed by the
provisions of Minnesota statutes chapters 297A, 270C, and 289A. (Ord. 2006-20,
6-6-2006)
1-11-4: IMPOSED; EXCISE TAX:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, there is hereby imposed an excise
tax of one-half of one percent, up to a maximum of twenty dollars ($20.00) per
sale of a motor vehicle at retail. This excise tax shall be in lieu of sales
and use tax on sales of motor vehicles. For purposes of this section, "motor
vehicle" and "dealer" shall have the definitions set forth in section
1-11-2 of this chapter.
   A.   Collection And Payment Of Excise Tax: A dealer who sells a motor
vehicle shall collect from the purchaser, at the time of the sale, the tax
imposed by this section. The collection of the tax imposed herein shall be a
personal obligation of the dealer and the proceeds of such tax collected shall
be thereafter paid over to the city on a monthly basis as such amounts are
collected.
   B.   Authority Of Director; Investigatory Powers; Enforcement: Rules,
procedures, and forms to implement the payment of tax imposed in this section
shall be established by the director, and shall be made available to all
persons who are or may be liable for the collection of the tax imposed by this
section. Any amendments to such rules, procedures, and/or forms shall be sent
by the director by first class mail to each person who has made payment to the
city of such tax within the preceding twelve (12) months, such mailing to be
directed to the name and address shown on the most recent return form.
   C.   Investigations: For the purpose of determining the correctness of any
return or of determining whether any person should have made a return or paid
taxes or for the purpose of collection of any such taxes hereunder, the
director shall have power to examine, or cause to be examined, any books,
papers, records, or memoranda, which may be relevant to making such
determinations, whether such books, papers, records, or memoranda, are the
property of or in the possession of such person or any other person. The
director shall have power to require the attendance of any person having
knowledge or information which may be relevant, to compel the production of
books, papers, records, or memoranda by persons so required to attend, to take
testimony on matters material to such determination, and to administer oaths or
affirmations.
   D.   Late Payment: If any tax imposed by this chapter is not paid within the
time specified for the payment or an extension thereof, there shall be added
thereto a specific penalty equal to ten percent (10%) of the amount remaining
unpaid. There shall be a minimum late payment penalty assessed of fifty dollars
($50.00) if penalties in the aggregate do not exceed that amount.
   E.   Late Filing: In case of any failure to make and file a return within
the time prescribed by this chapter, unless it is shown that such failure is
not due to wilful neglect, there shall be added to the tax, in addition to the
penalty provided in subsection D of this section, a penalty of ten percent
(10%) for each thirty (30) day period or fraction thereof during which such
failure continues, not exceeding twenty five percent (25%) in the aggregate.
There shall be a minimum penalty assessed of one hundred dollars ($100.00) if
penalties in the aggregate do not exceed that amount. The amount so added to
any tax shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner and as part
of the tax, unless the tax has been paid before the discovery of the
negligence; in which case, the amount so added shall be collected in the same
manner as the tax.
   F.   Interest On Unpaid Tax: The amount of tax not timely paid, together
with any penalty provided by this chapter, shall bear interest at the rate of
1.5 percent per month from the date on which such payment is due until the date
that payment is made. Any interest and penalty shall be added to the tax and be
collected as part thereof.
   G.   Legal Action: Any unpaid obligation of a dealer to the city under this
section, including penalties and interest thereon, may be collected by legal
action. The city may institute such legal action as it, in its sole discretion,
may deem appropriate to cover the amount due plus interest, penalties, and the
costs and disbursements of any action.
   H.   Violation: Any person or dealer who shall wilfully fail to make a
return required by this chapter or who shall fail to remit the taxes collected
or any penalty or interest imposed by this chapter after written demand for
such payments, or who shall refuse to permit the city's authorized agents to
examine the books, records, and papers under his or her control, or who shall
wilfully make any incomplete, false, or fraudulent return shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 2006-20, 6-6-2006)
1-11-5: CHARGED SEPARATELY, COMPUTATION; SALES AND USE TAX:
The Baxter sales and use tax shall be stated and charged separately from the
sales price or charge for service insofar as practical, and should be a debt
from the purchaser to the seller recoverable at law in the same manner as other
debts. In computing the tax to be collected as a result of any transaction, any
amount of tax less than one-half (1/2) of one cent ($0.01) may be disregarded
and amounts of tax one-half cent or more may be considered an additional cent.
If the sales price of any sale at retail is ninety nine cents ($0.99) or less,
no tax shall be collected. (Ord. 2006-20, 6-6-2006)
1-11-6: EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE:
A fully completed exemption certificate taken from a purchaser to the effect
that the property purchased is for resale or that the sale is otherwise exempt
from the application of the tax imposed by this chapter will conclusively
relieve the retailer from collecting and remitting the tax. A person who has
obtained from the commissioner an exemption certificate pursuant to the
Minnesota statutes section 297A may use such exemption certificate for the
purposes of the sales tax imposed by the city. (Ord. 2006-20, 6-6-2006)
1-11-7: PRESUMPTION OF PURPOSE OF SALE:
For the purpose of the proper administration and enforcement of section
1-11-3 of this chapter, it shall be presumed that all retail sales for delivery
in the city are for storage, use, or other consumption in the city until the
contrary is established. (Ord. 2006-20, 6-6-2006)
1-11-8: COLLECTION OF SALES AND USE TAX AT TIME OF SALE:
   A.   Any retailer making deliveries within the city, any retailer
maintaining a place of business in the city, or any other retailer otherwise
doing business within the city, upon making sales of any items described in
section
1-11-3 of this chapter which are not exempted from the sales tax imposed under
that section and which are to be delivered or caused to be delivered within the
city to the purchaser, shall at the time of making such sales collect the sales
and use tax from the purchaser. The tax collected by such retailer shall be
remitted to the commissioner on behalf of the city.
   B.   Any retailer required to collect Baxter sales and use tax and remit
such tax to the commissioner pursuant to this section shall register with the
commissioner and provide such other information as the commissioner may
require. (Ord. 2006-20, 6-6-2006)
1-11-9: AGENT OF RETAILER:
When in the opinion of the commissioner it is necessary for the efficient
administration of the tax, the commissioner may regard any salesman,
representative, trucker, peddler or canvasser as the agent of the dealer,
distributor, supervisor, employer or other person under whom such salesman,
representative, trucker, peddler or canvasser operated or from whom the
tangible property is being sold is obtained, and may regard the dealer,
distributor, supervisor, employer or other person as a retailer for the
purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-20, 6-6-2006)
1-11-10: EFFECTIVE DATE, TRANSITIONAL SALES:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Baxter sales and use tax authorized by
this chapter shall apply to sales made on or after October 1, 2006, and shall
be in addition to all other taxes now in effect. The Baxter sales and use tax
shall not apply to the following:
   A.   The gross receipts from retail sales or leases of tangible personal
property made pursuant to a bona fide written contract which unconditionally
vests the rights and obligations of the parties thereto, provided that such
contracts were enforceable prior to October 1, 2006, and that delivery of the
tangible personal property subject thereto is made on or before December 31,
2006.
   B.   The gross receipts from retail sales made pursuant to bona fide lump
sum or fixed price construction contract which unconditionally vests the rights
and obligations of the parties thereto and which does not make provision for
allocation of future taxes, provided that such contract was enforceable prior
to October 1, 2006, and the delivery of the tangible personal property used in
performing such construction contract is made before March 31, 2007.
   C.   Payments made prior to October 1, 2006, for contracts to provide
taxable services, provided that such contracts were enforceable prior to
October 1, 2006, however the Baxter sales and use tax shall apply to payments
made pursuant to such contracts to provide services on and after December 31,
2006.
   D.   Utility bills that include charges for services for any date before
October 1, 2006, however, the Baxter sales and use tax shall apply to all
utility bills for services provided after October 1, 2006. (Ord. 2006-20, 6-6-
2006)
1-11-11: COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The Baxter sales and use tax imposed by the city pursuant to this chapter shall
be subject to the same interests, penalties, and other rules as are applicable
to the state general sales tax imposed by Minnesota statutes chapters 289A and
297A. The Baxter sales and use tax imposed by the city pursuant to this chapter
may be collected by the state on behalf of the city as provided by an
appropriate agreement with the Minnesota commissioner of revenue. (Ord. 2006-
20, 6-6-2006)
1-11-12: TAX CLEARANCE ISSUANCE OF LICENSES:
The city may not issue or renew a license for the conduct of trade or business
in the city if the commissioner notifies the city that the applicant for such
license owes delinquent Baxter sales and use taxes as provided in this chapter,
or penalties or interest due on such taxes. For the purposes of this section,
the following terms have the following meanings:
APPLICANT: An individual if the license is issued to or in the name of an
individual or the corporation, partnership or other entity if the license is
issued to or in the name of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
BAXTER SALES AND USE TAXES: Include sales and use tax as provided in this
chapter. Penalties and interest are penalties and interest due on taxes
included in this definition.
DELINQUENT TAXES: Do not include a tax liability if:
   A.   In administrative or court action which contests the amount of validity
or the liability has been filed or served;
   B.   The appeal period to contest tax liability has not expired; or
   C.   The applicant has entered into a payment agreement and is current with
the payments.
A copy of the notice of delinquent taxes given to the city shall also be sent
to the applicant taxpayer. In the case of renewal of a license, if the
applicant requests a hearing in writing, within thirty (30) days of the receipt
of the notice of delinquent taxes, then a contested case hearing shall be held
by the commissioner under the same procedures as provided in Minnesota statutes
section 270C.72 for the state sales and use tax imposed under Minnesota
statutes chapter 297A, provided that if a hearing must be held on the state
sales and use tax, hearings may be combined. (Ord. 2006-20, 6-6-2006)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
ADVISORY COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Establishment Of Commissions
2-1-2: Members And Terms
2-1-3: Organization
2-1-4: Meetings
2-1-5: General Duties And Authority
2-1-6: Scope
2-1-7: Application Of State Laws
2-1-8: Appropriations, Compensation, And Expenses
2-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSIONS:
The council may from time to time find it necessary to establish advisory fact
finding bodies to aid the council in specific areas. These bodies shall be
called "commissions" and shall be established by ordinance. (Ord. 2013-1, 2-5-
2013)
2-1-2: MEMBERS AND TERMS:
   A.   Number: The commissions shall consist of six (6) members, one of whom
shall be a council member serving as a nonvoting liaison.
   B.   Council Liaison: To preserve the purpose of commissions to serve as
independent, fact finding bodies to advise the city council on various matters,
the role of the council liaison member is limited to: 1) providing direct
communication for the sharing of information between the commission and city
council, 2) serve as a commission member for quorum purposes, and 3) vote on
any matter in which there is a tie vote among voting members. The council
liaison member shall not be eligible to be a commission officer.
   C.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the commission constitute a quorum, and
all actions by the commission require the affirmative vote of a quorum.
   D.   Residency: Members of commissions shall be residents of the city.
   E.   Terms Of Office: Members' terms of office shall be for three (3) years
commencing January 1 in the year following the enabling resolution except that
the terms of the first set of members on any commission shall be staggered so
that no more than one-half (1/2) of the total number of members on any
commission shall expire in any one year. Upon completion of their term, a
member shall continue to serve until a successor is appointed. No individual
shall serve more than three (3) consecutive full terms on the same commission,
but is eligible for reappointment after one year following completion of the
last term.
   F.   Removal: Members of commissions shall serve at the will of the city
council and any member of a commission may be removed from office by two-
thirds (2/3) vote of all council members.
   G.   Vacancies: It shall be the duty of the chairperson of the commission to
notify the city administrator promptly of any vacancies occurring in
membership. In the case of any member missing three (3) consecutive commission
meetings or more than one-third (1/3) of the meetings held within the calendar
year, the mayor may declare a vacancy to exist without formal removal
proceedings.
   H.   Appointments And Vacancies: Members of commissions shall be appointed
by the mayor with council approval. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
term by the same process. (Ord. 2013-1, 2-5-2013; amd. Ord. 2024-013, 7-16-
2024)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: Each commission shall have a chairperson, vice chairperson
and a secretary appointed annually by the mayor and approved by the council at
its first meeting of the year. The chairperson, and vice chairperson acting in
the absence of the chairperson, shall be responsible for calling meetings and
presiding at meetings and shall be entitled to an equal vote with the other
members of the commission. The secretary shall be responsible for the keeping
of the meeting minutes and commission documents and records. The secretary
office and duties may be assumed by staff assigned by the council.
   B.   Committees: The commission may establish committees and subcommittees
from its membership to serve in an advisory capacity to assist the commission
in the conduct of its business.
   C.   Advisors: The city attorney, city staff and city consultants shall
serve as advisors to the commission. (Ord. 2013-1, 2-5-2013)
2-1-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Frequency: Meetings are scheduled to be held once per month or may be
called by the chairperson or set by the council as often as necessary to
accomplish the duties of the commission. At the last regular meeting of each
year, the commission shall approve the schedule of regular meeting dates, times
and locations for the next calendar year. Notice of the time and place of a
special meeting shall be communicated to the members and publicly noticed at
least three (3) days prior to the meeting except in the event of emergency. All
commission meetings shall be open to the public.
   B.   Quorum: Three (3) members of a commission shall constitute a quorum for
the conduct of business, except when a greater number of votes are required by
statutes.
   C.   Rules Of Conduct: The commissions shall be governed and operate
pursuant to "Robert's Rules of Order". The commission may adopt additional
rules for its governance and for the transaction of its business, following
review by the city council. The commissions shall keep a record of attendance,
resolutions, motions, findings and determinations at its meetings, showing the
vote of each member on each question requiring a vote, or if absent or
abstaining from voting, indicating such fact. The records of the commission
shall be a public record. No member of a commission shall make or vote on any
motion in which the member has direct or indirect interests. (Ord. 2013-1, 2-5-
2013; amd. Ord. 2024-013, 7-16-2024)
2-1-5: GENERAL DUTIES AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Duties: Commissions shall review all business items that are within
their established duties or as assigned by the council which comes before them
in relation to all city ordinances, plans and policies that exist at the time
the business comes to their agenda.
   B.   Program Of Work: On an annual basis, each commission shall prepare and
submit to the city council for its approval a proposed work plan for the next
year, describing actions needed to effectively fulfill the purpose and duties
of the commission.
   C.   Effect: The decisions of any commission shall be considered advisory
only and all final decisions shall rest with the city council. (Ord. 2013-1, 2-
5-2013)
2-1-6: SCOPE:
This chapter shall apply to all advisory commissions currently existing or
hereafter created unless specifically excluded by council resolution. (Ord.
2013-1, 2-5-2013)
2-1-7: APPLICATION OF STATE LAWS:
The provisions of the government data practices act, Minnesota statutes chapter
13, the open meeting law, Minnesota statutes chapter 13D and the laws relating
to gifts to local officials, Minnesota statutes section 471.895, as these laws
may be amended from time to time, apply to the advisory commissions and all of
their members. (Ord. 2013-1, 2-5-2013)
2-1-8: APPROPRIATIONS, COMPENSATION, AND EXPENSES:
   A.   Appropriations: The city council shall make available to the commission
such appropriations as it may see fit for expenses necessary to conduct its
work.
   B.   Compensation, Expenses: Members of the commission may be compensated as
determined by the council and may receive necessary expenses while on official
business for the commission, if funds are approved by the city council for
these purposes. (Ord. 2013-1, 2-5-2013)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Establishment
2-2-2: Purpose
2-2-3: Duties
2-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby established a city of Baxter public utilities commission,
hereinafter referred to as the "commission". (Ord. 2013-1, 2-5-2013)
2-2-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose: The commission is established to make recommendations to the
city council on the city's public water system, public sanitary sewer system,
public stormwater system (referred to as "public utility" or "public utilities"
herein), and public street system with all facilities and equipment necessary
to operate them. (Ord. 2013-1, 2-5-2013)
2-2-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Duties: The commission shall hold meetings of its members and hold
necessary public hearings and meetings to consider matters as referred to the
commission by the council, or initiated by the members of the commission and
deemed necessary to carry out the purposes and duties established in this
chapter. Such duties shall include:
      1.   Prepare and recommend comprehensive water system, sanitary sewer
system, stormwater system and street system plans for the future development of
the city to be submitted to the city council for implementation, and to
maintain the plans and recommend amendments to said plans to the city council,
as may become necessary or desirable.
      2.   Prepare and recommend maintenance plans for the water system,
sanitary sewer system, stormwater system and street systems to be submitted to
the city council for implementation, and to maintain the plans and recommend
amendments to said plans to the city council, as may become necessary or
desirable.
      3.   Prepare and recommend utility and transportation system maintenance
policies to the council as needed.
      4.   Recommend annually capital utility system and street system
improvement projects to the council for consideration for inclusion in the city
budget.
      5.   Recommend annually major utility system and street system
maintenance projects to the council for consideration for inclusion in the city
budget.
      6.   Prepare and recommend utility and transportation service policies to
the council as needed.
      7.   Prepare and recommend utility and transportation service and
maintenance agreements with other entities.
      8.   Prepare all plans and reports for council approval as required by
regulatory and funding agencies.
      9.   Review private land development proposals for conformance with
utility and transportation plans, policies, and standards and make
recommendations to the planning commission and council.
      10.   Monitor utility and transportation construction projects, review
project reports, change orders and payment requests and make appropriate
recommendations to the council. (Ord. 2013-1, 2-5-2013)
CHAPTER 3
PARKS AND TRAILS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Establishment
2-3-2: Purpose
2-3-3: Duties
2-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby established a city of Baxter parks and trails commission,
hereinafter referred to as the "commission". (Ord. 2013-1, 2-5-2013)
2-3-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose: The commission is established to make recommendations to the
city council regarding the development of the city park and trail systems.
(Ord. 2013-1, 2-5-2013)
2-3-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Duties: The commission shall hold meetings of its members and hold
necessary public meetings to consider matters as referred to the commission by
the council, or initiated by the members of the commission and deemed necessary
to carry out the purposes and duties established in this chapter. Such duties
shall include:
      1.   The study of park and trail land and facilities needs of the city
and make recommendations to the council to address those needs.
      2.   Prepare and recommend an overall plan for the future development of
the city park and trail systems to the city council for implementation, and to
maintain said plan and recommend amendments to the city council, as may become
necessary or desirable.
      3.   Recommend annually capital park and trail projects to the council
for consideration for inclusion in the city budget.
      4.   Recommend policies guiding the use of the city's park and trail
systems.
      5.   Make recommendations to the planning and zoning commission and city
council on park dedication policies and requirements.
      6.   Review private land development proposals to recommend the
dedication of fees or land for park and trail purposes when the property is
identified for such uses in the overall parks and trails plans and policies of
the city.
      7.   Work with other organizations to ensure the offering of an
appropriate array of recreation facilities and opportunities for all residents
of the city.
      8.   Appoint a member to serve on the city of Baxter and independent
school district 181 joint powers board recreation board and serve as a liaison
for recreation programming and facility planning coordination purposes. (Ord.
2013-1, 2-5-2013)
CHAPTER 4
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Establishment
2-4-2: Purpose
2-4-3: Duties
2-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby established a planning and zoning commission, hereinafter
referred to as the "commission". (Ord. 2013-04, 3-19-2013)
2-4-2: PURPOSE:
The planning and zoning commission serves as the city's planning agency and
board of appeals and adjustments and shall have the powers and duties given
these bodies by Minnesota statutes sections 462.351 through 462.365, as may be
amended from time to time. (Ord. 2013-04, 3-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2024-013, 7-16-
2024)
2-4-3: DUTIES:
The commission shall hold meetings of its members and hold necessary public
meetings and hearings to carry out the purposes and duties established in this
chapter, to consider matters as referred to the commission by the council, or
initiated by the members of the commission and deemed necessary to carry out
the purposes and duties established in this chapter. Such duties shall include:
   A.   To establish principles, procedures, policies and plans for guiding
actions affecting the development of the city and its environs;
   B.   To prepare and keep current a comprehensive plan for meeting present
requirements and such future needs as may be foreseen;
   C.   To acquire and maintain in current form such basic information and
background data as is necessary for an understanding of past trends, present
conditions and forces at work to cause changes in these conditions;
   D.   To determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the comprehensive plan and development
ordinances;
   E.   To prepare and recommend to the council practical means to implement
the objectives of the comprehensive plan, which may include ordinances
establishing zoning regulations, regulations for the subdivision of land, site
plan regulations, sanitary codes, building standards and official maps;
   F.   To advise the council on matters which have an impact on existing plans
and the future development of the city, including, but not limited to, plans of
other jurisdictions, major improvements, and annexations;
   G.   To conduct such public meetings and hearings as may be required to
gather information necessary for the drafting, establishment, maintenance and
administration of the comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance and subdivision
regulations;
   H.   To establish public committees for the purpose of collecting and
compiling information necessary for the comprehensive plan or for the purpose
of promoting the accomplishment of the plan in whole or in part, as authorized
by the city council;
   I.   To keep the city council informed and advised on development matters;
   J.   To perform other duties which may be assigned by the council. (Ord.
2013-04, 3-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2024-013, 7-16-2024)
CHAPTER 5
LONG RANGE PLANNING COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 2024-013, 7-16-2024)
CHAPTER 6
CEMETERY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Establishment
2-6-2: Purpose
2-6-3: Duties
2-6-4: Perpetual Care Fund; Operating Fund
2-6-5: Lots And Interring
2-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby established a city of Baxter cemetery commission, hereinafter
referred to as the "commission". (Ord. 2016-009, 4-19-2016)
2-6-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose Of Commission: The commission is established to make
recommendations to the city council on the city's cemetery. (Ord. 2016-009, 4-
19-2016)
2-6-3: DUTIES:
The commission shall hold meetings of its members and hold necessary public
hearings and meetings to consider matters as referred to the commission by the
council, or initiated by the members of the commission and deemed necessary to
carry out the purposes and duties established in this chapter. Such duties
shall include:
   A.   Maintenance Of Cemetery: The commission shall make recommendations
regarding the maintenance and improvement of the cemetery grounds to the city
council.
   B.   Annual Report: The commission shall make an annual report to the city
council on all matters pertaining to cemetery affairs.
   C.   Fees: The commission shall recommend fees to be charged for burial
privileges; such fee schedule must be approved by the city council to become
effective.
   D.   Expenditures: The commission shall recommend expenditures for the
Baxter City Cemetery.
   E.   Minutes: Minutes shall be kept of each commission's meeting. Copies of
the last meeting minutes will be distributed before each meeting. Minutes will
be reviewed and approved by the members. Minutes, when approved and accepted by
the city council, shall be filed with the city clerk.
   F.   Rules: The commission shall recommend rules for conduct of the public
in the Baxter City Cemetery. (Ord. 2016-009, 4-19-2016)
2-6-4: PERPETUAL CARE FUND; OPERATING FUND:
The city council shall establish two (2) monetary funds for the Baxter City
Cemetery:
   A.   Perpetual Care Fund: Shall be established by the city council pursuant
to Minnesota statutes. The investment earnings from the perpetual care fund
shall annually be transferred to the operating fund.
   B.   Operating Fund: The city council shall establish an operating fund and
shall use such monies for the management, maintenance and care of the Baxter
City Cemetery. Such funds shall also be used for capital improvements as
needed. (Ord. 2016-009, 4-19-2016)
2-6-5: LOTS AND INTERRING:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this chapter, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
    LOT OWNER: The owner of burial privileges only on lots obtained from the
city.
   THOSE INTERRED: Such persons who were at the time of their death residents
of the city or who prior thereto had been actual residents of the city for a
period of at least ten (10) years. This will also include their children.
   B.   Use Of Lots: No lots shall be used for any purpose other than the
burial of human remains and the placing of markers and monuments. (Ord. 2016-
009, 4-19-2016)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications
3-1-2: Persons Subject To License
3-1-3: Forms
3-1-4: Signatures
3-1-5: Inspections Or Investigations
3-1-6: Term Of License
3-1-7: Building And Premises
3-1-8: Change Of Location
3-1-9: Nuisances
3-1-10: Posting Of License
3-1-11: Revocation Of License Or Permit; Hearing
3-1-12: Appeal Procedure
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall be made
in writing to the city clerk, unless otherwise specifically provided by law.
Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
required by the issuing official. (2002 Code)
3-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the city. (2002 Code)
3-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the city clerk. (2002 Code)
3-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the mayor and the
city clerk in absence of any provision to the contrary. (2002 Code)
3-1-5: INSPECTIONS OR INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
city necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the city clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time
of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation
or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten
(10) days after receiving the application or a copy thereof. For the protection
of health, the building inspector shall make or cause to be made any such
inspections relative to the construction of buildings or other structures. All
other investigations, except where otherwise provided, shall be made by the
chief of police or by some other officer designated by the mayor. (2002 Code)
3-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on June 30 of each year where no provision
to the contrary is made. (2002 Code)
3-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the city. (2002 Code)
3-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation or of any permitted act may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the city clerk, provided the building
requirements of this code are complied with. (2002 Code)
3-1-9: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (2002 Code)
3-1-10: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the city
to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used for such
business at all times. (2002 Code)
3-1-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be revoked by the mayor and city
council during the life of such license or permit for the violation by the
licensee or permittee of any provision relating to the license or permit, the
subject matter of the license or permit, or the premises occupied; such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. The mayor and the city
council shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the
closing of the premises, and the suspension of any business license or permit
for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the city officials have so acted,
the mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee or permittee by certified mail at his last known address or personally
served at least five (5) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-examine
witnesses. The mayor shall preside and shall render the decision and
recommendation.
   D.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the city, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the mayor
and city council after notice and hearing as provided in subsections B and C of
this section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or state law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied;
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the city;
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized city officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in the city code. (2002 Code)
3-1-12: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the city to
issue a license or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall
have the right to appeal the city's decision to the city council. Such appeal
shall be requested by submitting a written request to the mayor within five (5)
days of the action of the city which is appealed.
   B.   Council Consideration: The city council shall consider the appeal at
its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time the applicant shall be
entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing. The council shall act on
the appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold the
action of the city or shall direct the issuance of a license or permit which
the city had denied or the reissuance of a license or permit which the city had
revoked. (2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LODGING TAX
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Administration Of Tax
3-2-3: Imposition Of Tax
3-2-4: Collections
3-2-5: Exemptions
3-2-6: Advertising No Tax
3-2-7: Payments And Returns
3-2-8: Examination Of Return, Adjustments, Notices And Demands
3-2-9: Refunds
3-2-10: Failure To File Return
3-2-11: Monetary Penalties
3-2-12: Examination Of Records
3-2-13: Use Of Proceeds
3-2-14: Designated Entity
3-2-15: Appeals
3-2-16: Term
3-2-17: Violation
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
CITY: The city of Baxter, Minnesota.
LODGER: The person obtaining lodging from an operator.
LODGING: The furnishing for a consideration of lodging at a hotel, motel,
apartment, tourist court, municipal campground, bed and breakfast or resort,
other than the renting or leasing of such premises for a continuous period of
thirty (30) days or more to the same occupant. The furnishing of rooms owned by
religious, educational or nonprofit organizations for self-sponsored activities
shall not constitute "lodging" for purposes of this chapter.
OPERATOR: Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building in the
city, or part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let,
whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, licensee or any other
capacity.
PERSONS: All firms, partnerships, associations, corporations, and natural
persons.
RENT: The total consideration valued in money charged for lodging whether paid
in money or otherwise, but shall not include any charges for services rendered
in connection with furnishing lodging other than the room charge itself. (Ord.
63, 5-2-1995; amd. Ord. 2006-5, 2-7-2006)
3-2-2: ADMINISTRATION OF TAX:
The city shall administer and enforce the assessment and collection of the
taxes imposed by this chapter. The city shall cause to be prepared blank forms
for the returns and other documents required by this chapter and shall
distribute the same throughout the city. Failure to receive or secure such
forms and documents shall not relieve any person from any obligation required
of him or her under this chapter. (Ord. 63, 5-2-1995)
3-2-3: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
Pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 469.190, there is hereby imposed a tax
of three percent (3%) on the rent charged by an operator for providing lodging
to any person. The tax shall be stated and charged separately and shall be
collected by the operator from the lodger. The tax collected by the operator
shall be a debt owed by the operator to the city and shall be extinguished only
by payment to the city. In no case shall the tax imposed by this chapter upon
an operator exceed the amount of tax which the operator is authorized and
required by this chapter to collect from a lodger. (Ord. 63, 5-2-1995)
3-2-4: COLLECTIONS:
Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter at the time the
rent is paid. The tax collected shall be deemed to be held in trust by the
operator for the city. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the
rent charged for the lodging and those persons paying the tax shall receive a
receipt for payment from the operator. (Ord. 63, 5-2-1995)
3-2-5: EXEMPTIONS:
An exemption shall be granted to any person as to whom or whose occupancy it is
beyond the power of the city to tax. No exemption shall be granted except upon
a claim therefor made at the time the rent is collected. Such a claim shall be
made in writing and under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the city. All
such claims shall be forwarded to the city when the returns and collections are
submitted as required by this chapter. (Ord. 63, 5-2-1995)
3-2-6: ADVERTISING NO TAX:
It shall be unlawful for any operator to advertise, hold out or state to the
public or any customer, directly or indirectly, that the tax, or any part
thereof, will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be
added to the rent or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be refunded.
In computing the tax to be collected, amounts of tax less than one cent ($0.01)
shall be considered an additional cent. (Ord. 63, 5-2-1995)
3-2-7: PAYMENTS AND RETURNS:
   A.   Payment Date: The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be paid by the
operator to the city monthly not later than twenty (20) days after the end of
the month in which the taxes were collected.
   B.   Return: At the time of payment, the operator shall submit a return upon
such forms and containing such information as the city may require. The return
shall contain the following minimum information:
      1.   The total amount of rent collected for lodging during the period
covered by the return;
      2.   The total amount of exceptions/exemptions;
      3.   The amount of tax required to be collected and due for the period;
      4.   The signature of the person filing the return or that of his/her
agent duly authorized in writing;
      5.   The period covered by the return;
      6.   The amount of uncollectible rental charges subject to the lodging
tax;
      7.   A certification of accuracy attested to by the person signing the
form for submission to the city.
   C.   Offset: The operator may offset against the taxes payable with respect
to any reporting period the amount of taxes imposed by this chapter previously
paid as a result of any transaction the consideration for which becomes
uncollectible. (Ord. 63, 5-2-1995)
3-2-8: EXAMINATION OF RETURN, ADJUSTMENTS, NOTICES AND DEMANDS:
The city or its duly authorized representative shall, after a return is filed,
examine the same and make any investigation or examination of the records and
accounts of the person making the return deemed necessary for determining its
correctness. The tax computed on the basis of such examination shall be the tax
to be paid. If the tax due is found to be greater than that paid, such excess
shall be paid to the city within ten (10) days after receipt of a notice
thereof given either personally or sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address shown on the return. If the tax paid is greater than
the tax found to be due, the excess shall be refunded to the person who paid
the tax to the city within ten (10) working days after determination of such
refund. (Ord. 63, 5-2-1995)
3-2-9: REFUNDS:
Any person may apply to the city for a refund of taxes paid for a prescribed
period in excess of the amount legally due for that period; provided, that no
application for refund shall be considered unless filed within one year from
the date the return was due to be filed. The city shall examine the claim and
make and file written findings denying or allowing the claim in whole or in
part and shall mail a notice thereof by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to such person at the address stated upon the return. If such claim
is allowed in whole or in part, the city shall credit the amount of the
allowance against any taxes due under this chapter from the claimant and the
balance of said allowance, if any, shall be paid by the city to the claimant.
(Ord. 63, 5-2-1995)
3-2-10: FAILURE TO FILE RETURN:
   A.   Written Notice And Demand: If any operator required by this chapter to
file a return shall fail to do so within the time prescribed or shall make,
wilfully or otherwise, an incorrect, false, or fraudulent return, the operator
shall, upon written notice and demand, file such return or corrected return
within five (5) days of receipt of such notice and shall, at the same time, pay
any tax due on the basis thereof. If such person shall fail to file such return
or corrected return, the city shall make a return or corrected return for such
person based upon such knowledge or information as the city can obtain, and
assess a tax on the basis thereof, which tax (less any payments covered by such
return) shall be paid within five (5) days of the receipt of written notice and
demand for such payment. Any such return or assessment made by the city shall
be prima facie correct and valid, and the burden of proving to the contrary
rests with any person in any action or proceeding in respect thereto.
   B.   Legal Action: If any portion of a tax imposed by this chapter,
including penalties thereon, is not paid within thirty (30) days after it is
required to be paid, the city may institute such legal action as it, in its
sole discretion, may deem appropriate to cover the amount due plus interest,
penalties, and the costs and disbursements of any action. (Ord. 63, 5-2-1995)
   C.   Extension Of Time: Upon a showing of good cause, the city may grant an
operator one 30-day extension of time within which to file a return and make
payment of taxes as required by this chapter; provided, that the city may
require some fee (less than the 10 percent late fee ordinarily due) to
reimburse actual expenses and staff time caused by said delay. (Ord. 2006-5, 2-
7-2006)
3-2-11: MONETARY PENALTIES:
   A.   Late Payment: If any tax imposed by this chapter is not paid within the
time herein specified for the payment or an extension thereof, there shall be
added thereto a specific penalty equal to ten percent (10%) of the amount
remaining unpaid.
   B.   Late Filing: In case of any failure to make and file a return within
the time prescribed by this chapter, unless it is shown that such failure is
not due to wilful neglect, there shall be added to the tax, in addition to the
penalty provided in subsection A of this section, a penalty of ten percent
(10%) for each thirty (30) day period or fraction thereof during which such
failure continues, not exceeding twenty five percent (25%) in the aggregate.
There shall be a minimum penalty assessed of twenty five dollars ($25.00) if
penalties in the aggregate do not exceed that amount. The amount so added to
any tax shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner and as part
of the tax, unless the tax has been paid before the discovery of the
negligence; in which case, the amount so added shall be collected in the same
manner as the tax.
   C.   Wilful Failure To File; False Or Fraudulent Return: If any person
wilfully fails to file any return or make any payment required by this chapter
or wilfully files a false or fraudulent return or wilfully attempts in any
manner to evade or defeat any such tax or payment thereof, there shall also be
imposed as a penalty an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of any tax (less
any amounts paid on the basis of such false or fraudulent return) found due for
the period to which such return related. This penalty shall be collected as
part of the tax, and shall be in addition to any other penalties provided by
this chapter.
   D.   Application Of Payment: All payments received shall be credited first
to penalties, next to interest, and then to the tax due.
   E.   Interest: The amount of tax not timely paid, together with any penalty
provided by this chapter, shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%)
per annum from the time such tax should have been paid until payment is made.
Any interest and penalty shall be added to the tax and be collected as part
thereof. (Ord. 63, 5-2-1995)
3-2-12: EXAMINATION OF RECORDS:
Persons acting on behalf of the city and authorized in writing by the city may
examine the books, papers, and records of any operator in order to verify the
accuracy of any return made; or if no return was made, to ascertain the tax as
provided in this chapter. Every such operator is directed and required to give
to the city the means, facilities, and opportunity during regular city business
hours for such examinations and investigations as are hereby authorized. (Ord.
63, 5-2-1995)
3-2-13: USE OF PROCEEDS:
Ninety five percent (95%) of the proceeds obtained from the collection of taxes
pursuant to this chapter shall be used in accordance with Minnesota statutes
section 469.190 as the same may be amended from time to time to fund a
designated entity designated by the city for the purpose of marketing and
promoting the community as a tourist center. The city shall retain up to five
percent (5%) of the proceeds obtained hereunder to defray the costs and
expenses of collection and administration of such tax. The city shall disburse
the balance of the tax collected to the designated entity by the fifteenth day
of the month following the city's receipt of such funds. (2002 Code)
3-2-14: DESIGNATED ENTITY:
The city shall designate by resolution the entity which shall be responsible
for the disbursement of all funds collected according to Minnesota statutes
section 469.190. The entity shall submit an annual marketing program and budget
to the city for its review. Said resolution may define other procedures
necessary to ensure proper execution of this delegation of authority. (2002
Code)
3-2-15: APPEALS:
   A.   Right Of Review: Any operator aggrieved by any notice, order, or
determination made by the city under this chapter may file a petition for
review of such notice, order, or determination. The petition shall contain the
name of petitioner, the petitioner's address, and the location of the lodging
subject to the notice, order, or determination.
   B.   Filing Petition For Review: The petition for review shall be filed with
the city within ten (10) days after the notice, order, or determination for
which review is sought has been mailed to or served upon the person requesting
review.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: Upon receipt of the petition, the city administrator
shall set a date for a hearing and give the petitioner at least five (5) days'
prior written notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing.
   D.   Hearing: At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity
to show cause why the notice, order, or determination should be modified or
withdrawn.
   E.   Findings Of Fact And Conclusions: The hearing shall be conducted by the
city council or its authorized representative and it shall make written
findings of fact and conclusions based upon the applicable section of this
chapter and the evidence presented. The city council or its authorized
representative may affirm, reverse, or modify the notice, order or
determination which is the subject of the appeal. (Ord. 63, 5-2-1995)
3-2-16: TERM:
The city may repeal this chapter at any time. (2002 Code)
3-2-17: VIOLATION:
Any person who shall wilfully fail to make a return required by this chapter or
who shall fail to remit the taxes collected or any penalty or interest imposed
by this chapter after written demand for such payment, or who shall refuse to
permit the city's authorized agents to examine the books, records and papers
under his or her control, or who shall wilfully make any incomplete, false, or
fraudulent return shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 63, 5-2-1995; amd.
2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-3-1: State Law Adopted
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Application For License
3-3-4: License Fees And Expiration Of Licenses
3-3-5: Granting Of License
3-3-6: Persons Ineligible For License
3-3-7: Places Ineligible For License
3-3-8: Conditions Of License
3-3-9: Restrictions On Purchase And Consumption
3-3-10: Prohibited Conduct
3-3-11: Suspension; Revocation
3-3-12: Penalty
3-3-1: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
The provisions of Minnesota statutes chapter 340A, as it may be amended from
time to time, relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption,
sales, financial responsibility of licensees, hours and days of sale, and all
other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption of
intoxicating liquor are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as if
set out in full. However, the city may choose to be more restrictive than said
state law and if such restrictions are set forth below, they shall be effective
and preempt the more general restrictions of state law. (Ord. 2012-2, 4-3-2012)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   General Requirement: No person, except a wholesaler or manufacturer to
the extent authorized under state license, shall directly or indirectly deal
in, sell, or keep for sale in the city any intoxicating liquor without a
license to do so as provided in this chapter. Each license shall be issued for
a maximum period of one year, expiring on June 30 of each year. All licenses
shall expire on the same date except temporary licenses that shall expire
according to their terms. Liquor licenses shall be of eight (8) kinds: on-sale,
temporary on-sale, on-sale wine, off- sale, club licenses, on-sale brewer
taproom, off-sale growler, and Sunday liquor licenses.
   B.   Classifications:
      1.   On-Sale Intoxicating Liquor Licenses: On-sale intoxicating liquor
licenses shall be issued only to those establishments allowed under Minnesota
Statutes, Section 340A.404, Subd. 1. On-sale liquor licenses shall permit the
sale of intoxicating liquor consumption on the licensed premises only.
      2.   On-Sale Wine Licenses: On-sale wine licenses shall be issued only to
restaurants meeting the qualifications of Minnesota statutes section 340A.404,
subdivision 5, and shall permit only the sale of wine not exceeding fourteen
percent (14%) alcohol by volume for consumption on the licensed premises only
in conjunction with the sale of food. The holder of an on-sale wine license who
is also licensed to sell three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) malt liquor at on-
sale pursuant to article A of this chapter, and whose gross receipts are at
least sixty percent (60%) attributable to the sale of food, may also sell malt
liquors at on-sale without an additional license.
      3.   a.   Temporary On-Sale Licenses: Subject to the approval of the
commissioner of public safety, temporary on-sale licenses shall be issued only
to clubs or charitable, religious, or other nonprofit organizations in
existence for at least three (3) years. A temporary license authorizes the on-
sale of intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the city
sponsored by the licensee and subject to restrictions imposed by the state
liquor act.
         b.   The City may issue to a brewer who manufactures fewer than 3,500
barrels of malt liquor in a year a temporary license for the on-sale of
intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the municipality
sponsored by the brewer.
   The terms and conditions under Minnesota Statute 340A.404, Subd. 10 shall
apply to temporary on-sale licenses.
      4.   Off-Sale Intoxicating Liquor Licenses: Off-sale licenses shall be
issued only to exclusive liquor stores and shall permit off-sales of liquor
only.
      5.   Special Club Licenses: Special club licenses shall be issued only to
incorporated clubs or congressionally chartered veterans' organizations which
have been in existence at least three (3) years.
      6.   On-Sale Brewer Taproom Licenses: An on-sale brewer taproom license
authorizes on-sale of malt liquor produced by the brewer for consumption on the
premises of or adjacent to one brewery location owned by the brewer, subject to
the restrictions of this chapter and Minnesota statutes, section 340A.301,
subdivision 6b, as it may be amended from time to time.
      7.   a.   Off-Sale Growler Licenses: An off-sale growler license
authorizes off-sale of malt liquor produced by a brewer and packaged in sixty
four (64) ounce or seven hundred fifty milliliter (750 ml) containers that are
designed, sealed and labeled pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 340A.285,
as it may be amended from time to time. Only brewers licensed under Minnesota
statutes section 340A.301, subdivision 6(d), (i) or (j) are eligible for an
off-sale growler license, subject to the limitations set forth in section
340A.285 of that statute. The off-sale of growlers may be conducted on Sundays
with a Sunday growler off-sale license. All Sunday sales may be made between
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
         b.   Brewer Off-Sale Malt Liquor Licenses: Brewer off-sale malt liquor
licenses may also be issued, with approval of the commissioner, to a holder of
a brewer's license under Minn. Stat. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) and
meeting the criteria established by Minn. Stat. § 340A.29 as may be amended
from time to time. The amount of malt liquor sold at off-sale under this
license may not exceed one hundred and twenty-eight (128) ounces per customer
per day. Off-sale of malt liquor shall be limited to the legal hours for off-
sale at exclusive liquor stores in the jurisdiction in which the brewer is
located, and the malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the premises
before the applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor stores.
Packaging of malt liquor for off-sale under this license must comply with the
provisions of Minnesota Rules, parts 7515.1080 to 7515.1120.
      8.   Special License For Sunday Sales: A special license authorizing
sales on Sunday in conjunction with the serving of food may be issued to any
hotel, restaurant or club which has facilities for serving at least thirty (30)
guests at one time, and which has an on-sale license. The provisions of
Minnesota statutes section 340A.504, subdivision 3, relating to Sunday sales of
intoxicating liquor are adopted and made a part hereof, except, however, that
the closing time for all licenses shall remain at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. even
though said chapter has now authorized a later closing time. A special Sunday
license is not needed for Sunday sales by wine licensees. Separate application
for the license shall be made in the manner set forth below.
      9.   Combination On-Sale/Off-Sale Licenses: Combination on-sale/off-sale
licenses shall only be issued to restaurants meeting the qualifications of
Minnesota statutes section 340A.101, subdivision 25. All sales of alcohol must
be sold in conjunction with a sale of food.
   C.   Nonenclosed Premises:
      1.   An applicant may make application to have an area that is contiguous
to the completely enclosed licensed premises included in the area licensed to
permit the sale and consumption of intoxicating or 3.2 percent malt liquor in
such contiguous area that is not wholly within a completely enclosed building.
      2.   The building official shall review the suitability of the proposed
nonenclosed premises in light of the applicable fire, building, and life safety
codes, zoning ordinances, design standards, the adequacy of the proposal to
provide for the safety of persons on the premises, impact on the surrounding
properties, adequacy of lighting, appropriateness of noise levels, suitability
of ingress and egress arrangements including control of person entering and
leaving for purposes of preventing consumption by minors and safety of seating
arrangements.
      3.   Nonenclosed areas that immediately abut parking areas that have a
bumper overhand onto a sidewalk shall be set back not less than seven feet (7')
from the curb line or pavement edge.
      4.   Outdoor dining areas located along an area where a handicap
accessible route is required shall maintain or provide an unobstructed walkway
measuring not less than five feet (5') in clear width adjacent to the outdoor
dining area. No tables, seating, enclosures for outdoor dining, or signage
(e.g., handicap, restricted parking) shall be located within this required
walkway. This five foot (5') wide unobstructed walkway may be located in the
seven foot (7') setback specified between outdoor dining areas and adjacent
curbs because the seven foot (7') setback accounts for a two foot (2') bumper
overhang.
      5.   Barriers for the nonenclosed area must be constructed of upgraded
fence or barrier materials to be reviewed and approved by the city such as
wrought iron, brick and/or natural stone material(s) and the like. Barriers for
the nonencolsed area shall be constructed at a minimum of forty two inches
(42") high with a minimum two foot (2') landscaped buffer. In place of the two
foot (2') landscaped buffer, a series of planters containing vegetation to
screen ten percent (10%) of the fencing may be allowed. Any opening in the
barrier shall be spaced such that visibility is allowed but the passage of an
alcoholic beverage through the opening to a person that is not within the
nonenclosed premises area is prohibited. The primary access and egress will be
from the main premises or structure and no other access or egress will be
allowed other than those required as emergency exits. The outdoor sale area
will be defined or structurally constructed so as to prohibit the free passage
of any person or substance beyond said area.
      6.   Any establishment offering outdoor liquor service must file with the
city clerk evidence on insurance insuring against liability imposed by law
arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or operation of such liquor service.
The certificate must state that all coverage afforded to the enclosed premises
is extended to the nonenclosed area. The certificate must further state that
coverage may not be canceled except upon ten (10) days' written notice filed
with the city clerk. Sale of liquor within the nonenclosed area must cease at
any time the required insurance is not in place.
      7.   There shall be no live music allowed on nonenclosed premises except
in the case of a special event, which has prior approval of a special event
permit. Amplified music shall be kept at a level that is not intrusive to
adjacent properties. Unless the establishment has obtained a conditional use
permit from the city.
      8.   Additional parking needs service connection fees for nonenclosed
areas shall be reviewed by the city on a case by case basis.
      9.   Any action of the city allowing outdoor sales must be deemed
experimental and as such, no expectation must be had by the licensee that the
outdoor area will continue to be permitted through annual licensing, even
though no misconduct occurred in the outdoor area.
   D.   Temporary Amendments To On-Sale Licenses:
      1.   The city council may approve a temporary amendment to an existing
on-sale, on-sale wine, or Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor license to allow
the sale of liquor in an area outside the licensed premises if the council
determines in its sole discretion that the following criteria are met:
         a.   The area to be used must be immediately adjacent to the licensed
premises;
         b.   The area will be used in connection with an event no longer than
three (3) days in duration;
         c.   No more than four (4) temporary amendments per year will be
allowed for a licensee at one establishment. A special license issued to a non-
profit organization which contracts with the licensee for provision of service
will be counted as part of this total;
         d.   Adequate measures will be taken to control access to the
additional area, to ensure that alcoholic beverages are not sold to minors and
are not carried outside of the licensed premises and the additional area;
         e.   Adequate measures will be taken to ensure that there will be no
violation of the city's noise ordinance;
         f.   The use of the additional area will not decrease available
parking below that required by the zoning ordinance for the licensed premises;
         g.   The use of the additional area will not unreasonably impede
traffic circulation;
         h.   The licensee has obtained adequate liability insurance for the
additional area; and
         i.   The issuance of the temporary amendment would not be adverse to
the public health, safety and welfare.
      2.   To obtain a temporary amendment, the licensee must submit an
application accompanied by:
         a.   A diagram showing the expanded area to be used;
         b.   A detailed description of the event for which the additional area
will be used;
         c.   A detailed description of the security measures to be used;
         d.   Evidence that the licensee has liability insurance to cover the
additional area; and
         e.   Evidence that the licensee has the right to use the additional
area. (Ord. 2012-2, 4-3-2012; amd. Ord. 2014-09, 5-6-2014; Ord. 2015-08, 5-19-
2015; Ord. 2020-003, 4-7-2020; Ord, 2002-04, 6-2-2020; Ord. 2022-004, 6-7-2022;
Ord. 2023-006, 2-7-2023; Ord. 2023-014, 9-19-2023)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Form:
      1.   Required Information: Every application for a license to sell liquor
shall state the name of the applicant, his age, representations as to his
character (with such references as the council may require), his citizenship,
the type of license applied for, the business in connection with which the
proposed license will operate and its location, whether the applicant is owner
and operator of the business, how long he has been in that business at that
place, and such other information as the council may require from time to time.
      2.   Summons: Every application shall also include a copy of each summons
received by the applicant under Minnesota statutes section 340A.802 during the
preceding year.
      3.   Form; Verification: In addition to containing such information, the
application shall be in the form prescribed by the commissioner of public
safety and shall be verified and filed with the city clerk.
      4.   False Statements: No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   B.   Financial Responsibility: No liquor license may be issued, maintained,
or renewed unless the applicant demonstrates proof of financial responsibility
as defined in Minnesota statutes section 340A.409 with regard to liability
under the Minnesota statutes section 340A.801. Such proof shall be filed with
the commissioner of public safety. Applicants for liquor licenses to whom the
requirement for proof of financial responsibility applies include applicants
for wine licenses with sales of less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) of
wine per year. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this subsection shall conform to Minnesota statutes
section 340A.409.
   C.   Approval Of Security: Applicants for on-sale wine licenses and off-sale
licenses shall be approved by the state commissioner of public safety.
Liability insurance policies required, but not by state law, shall be approved
as to form by the city attorney. Operation of a licensed business without
having on file with the city, at all times, effective security as required by
subsection B of this section is a cause for revocation of the license. (Ord.
10.11, 7-5-1989; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3-4: LICENSE FEES AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   Annual Fees: The annual fees for liquor licenses shall be as set from
time to time by the city council.
   B.   Payment: Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the city treasurer for payment in full of the license fee and the
fixed investigation fee required under subsection
3-3-5A of this chapter, if any. All fees shall be paid into the general fund.
If an application for a license is rejected, the treasurer shall refund the
amount paid as the license fee.
   C.   Term; Pro Rata Fee: Each license shall be issued for a period of one
year, except that if the application is made during the license year, a license
may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee, with any
unexpired fraction of a month being counted as one month. Every license, except
temporary licenses, shall expire on June 30. Temporary licenses shall expire
according to their terms.
   D.   Refunds: No refund of any fee shall be made except as authorized by
statute. (Ord. 10.11, 7-5-1989; amd. Ord. 10.14, 6-18-1991; 2002 Code; Ord.
2023-014, 9-19-2023)
3-3-5: GRANTING OF LICENSE:
   A.   Preliminary Investigation:
      1.   Investigation Fee: On an initial application for an on-sale license
or for an off-sale license and on application for transfer of an existing on-
sale license or an existing off-sale license, the applicant shall pay with his
application an investigation fee as set from time to time by the city council,
and the city shall conduct a preliminary background and financial investigation
of the applicant.
      2.   Application Form: The application in such case shall be made on a
form prescribed by the commissioner of public safety and with such additional
information as the council may require.
      3.   Renewal: If the council deems it in the public interest to have an
investigation made on a particular application for renewal of an on-sale
license, it shall so determine.
      4.   Comprehensive Investigation: In any case, if the council determines
that a comprehensive background and financial investigation of the applicant is
necessary, it may conduct the investigation itself or contract with the
commissioner of public safety for the investigation.
      5.   Investigation Results: No license shall be issued, transferred, or
renewed if the results show, to the satisfaction of the council, that issuance
would not be in the public interest.
      6.   Investigation Outside State: If an investigation outside the state
is required, the applicant shall be charged the cost not to exceed ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), which shall be paid by the applicant after deducting any
initial investigation fee already paid. The fee shall be payable by the
applicant whether or not the license is granted. (Ord. 10.12, 8-1-1989; amd.
2002 Code)
   B.   Hearing And Issuance: The city council shall investigate all facts set
out in the application and not investigated in the preliminary background and
financial investigation conducted pursuant to subsection A of this section.
Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the
granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the council
shall, in its discretion, grant or refuse the application. No on-sale wine
license or off-sale license shall become effective until it, together with the
security furnished by the applicant, has been approved by the commissioner of
public safety.
   C.   Person And Premises Licensed; Transfer: Each license shall be issued
only to the applicant and for the premises described in the application. No
license may be transferred to another person or place without city council
approval. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed a transfer of
the license, and a transfer of stock without prior council approval is a
grounds for revocation of the license. (Ord. 10.11, 7-5-1989)
3-3-6: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
No license shall be granted to any person made ineligible for such a license by
state law. (Ord. 2010-18, 12-20-2010)
3-3-7: PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   General Prohibition: No license shall be issued for any place or any
business ineligible for such a license under state law.
   B.   Delinquent Taxes And Charges: No license shall be granted for operation
on any premises on which taxes, assessments, or other financial claims of the
city are delinquent and unpaid.
   C.   Distance From Schools, Churches And Residential Properties: No license
shall be granted within three hundred feet (300') of any school, church, or
residential premises.
      1.   Commercial Districts: Any limitation as to the distance of any
licensed premises from any school, church, or residence shall not apply as to
any beer, wine or intoxicating liquor licensee whose licensed premises are
within the commercial districts of the city as established by title 10 of this
code, or any amendments thereto.
      2.   Noncommercial Districts: In noncommercial districts, the three
hundred foot (300') limitation as to the distance from any school, church, or
residence shall be measured between the main front entrances following the
route of ordinary pedestrian travel. If there is no route of ordinary
pedestrian travel, then the distance shall be based on the shortest distance
between the front entrances measured outside the structures and aboveground.
      3.   Subsequent Changes: Once any such license is issued in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter, no subsequent change in the location of
the front entrance of any school, church, or residence shall invalidate the
license or make it ineligible for renewal or transfer as long as all other
applicable licensing criteria are met. (Ord. 2012-2, 4-3-2012)
3-3-8: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   In General: Every license is subject to the conditions in the following
subsections and all other provisions of this chapter and of any other
applicable ordinance, state law or regulation.
   B.   Insurance: Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of
state law and of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license granted
pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Licensee's Responsibility: Every licensee is responsible for the
conduct in the licensed establishment and any sale of alcoholic beverages by
any employee authorized to sell such beverages in the establishment is the act
of the licensee.
   D.   Inspections: Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health
officer, or properly designated officer or employee of the city to enter,
inspect, and search the premises of the licensee during business hours without
a warrant.
   E.   Display During Prohibited Hours:
      1.   Display Of Liquor Prohibited: No on-sale establishment shall display
liquor to the public during hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited. (Ord.
10.11, 7-5-1989)
      2.   Hours And Days Of Sale: Hours and days of sale as outlined in
Minnesota statutes section 340A.504 are adopted as the hours and days of sale
within the city, except, however, that the closing time for all licenses shall
remain at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. even though said chapter has now authorized a
later closing time. (Ord. Title 3, 6-17-2003)
      3.   Closed To Public: All on-sale establishments, bottle clubs and
public drinking places shall be closed to the public not later than one-half
(1/2) hour after the required time for stopping sale of either intoxicating
liquor or malt liquor. No persons other than employees shall be permitted
within such establishment during the closed period. (Ord. 10.11, 7-5-1989; amd.
2002 Code)
      4.   Public Entrances: All public entrances to premises shall remain open
and unlocked during all times when such premises have customers therein.
      5.   Reopening: All licensees may reopen at eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on
a day even though, under law, they may not be permitted to make liquor sales or
allow consumption or display if they lock or in some other manner secure all
facilities or equipment for the serving of such liquor. (Ord. 10.11, 7-5-1989)
3-3-9: RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION:
   A.   Liquor In Unlicensed Places: No person shall mix or prepare liquor for
consumption in any public place or place of business unless it has a license to
sell liquor on sale or a permit from the commissioner of public safety under
Minnesota statutes section 340A.414, and no person shall consume liquor in any
such place.
   B.   Consumption In Public Places: No person shall consume liquor on a
public highway, public park, or other public place. (Ord. 10.11, 7-5-1989)
3-3-10: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Unlawful To Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person licensed to
sell malt liquor, intoxicating liquor, or wine, on- sale in the city to permit
on the licensed premises:
      1.   Nudity: Any person to display, either directly, or indirectly, in
person, by pictures, film, or otherwise, "nudity" as term is defined by
Minnesota statutes section 617.292, subdivision 3.
      2.   Sexual Acts: Any person to perform acts of or acts which simulate:
         a.   "Sexual conduct" as this term is defined by Minnesota statutes
section 617.292, subdivision 4;
         b.   "Sexual excitement" as this term is defined by Minnesota statutes
section 617.292, subdivision 5;
         c.   "Sadomasochistic abuse" as this term as defined by Minnesota
statutes section 617.292, subdivision 6.
   B.   Unlawful To Remain On Premises: It shall be unlawful for any on-sale
intoxicating liquor, malt liquor, or wine licensee to permit any person to
remain in or upon the licensed premises who exposes to public view or performs
or simulates any of the conduct or activities enumerated and prohibited in
subsection A of this section.
   C.   Unlawful To Perform: It shall be unlawful for any person within the
premises licensed for the sale of malt liquor, intoxicating liquor, or wine on-
sale to display publicly or perform any acts which are prohibited in subsection
A of this section.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 10.8, 8-3-1982; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3-11: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION:
   A.   Power Of Council: The council shall either suspend for up to sixty (60)
days, revoke any liquor license, or impose a civil fine pursuant to state
statute for each violation upon a finding that the licensee has failed to
comply with any applicable statute, regulation, or ordinance relating to
alcoholic beverages.
   B.   Hearing Required: Except in cases of failure of financial
responsibility, no suspension or revocation shall take effect until the
licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to Minnesota
statutes sections 14.57 through 14.70 of the administrative procedure act.
   C.   Failure Of Financial Responsibility:
      1.   Immediate Suspension: Lapse of required dramshop insurance, or
withdrawal of a required deposit of cash or securities, shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter without
further action of the city council.
      2.   Notice Of Cancellation, Lapse Or Withdrawal: Notice of cancellation,
lapse of a current liquor liability policy, or withdrawal of deposited cash or
securities shall also constitute notice to the licensee of the impending
suspension of the license.
      3.   Request For Hearing: The holder of a license who has received notice
of lapse of required insurance, or withdrawal of a required deposit, or of
suspension or revocation of a license, may request a hearing thereon; and if
such a request is made in writing to the clerk, a hearing shall be granted
within ten (10) days or such longer period as may be requested.
      4.   Length Of Suspension: Any suspension under this subsection shall
continue until the city council determines that the financial responsibility
requirements of this chapter have again been met. (Ord. 10.11, 7-5-1989; amd.
2002 Code)
3-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor;
and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus the cost of prosecution in any case. (Ord. 10.11, 7-5-
1989; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 2020-003, 4-7-2020)
ARTICLE A. MALT LIQUOR
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Definitions
3-3A-2: License Required
3-3A-3: License Applications
3-3A-4: License Fees
3-3A-5: Granting Of License
3-3A-6: Persons Ineligible For License
3-3A-7: Places Ineligible For License
3-3A-8: Conditions Of License
3-3A-9: Closing Hours
3-3A-10: Clubs
3-3A-11: Restrictions On Purchase And Consumption
3-3A-12: Suspension; Revocation
3-3A-13: Penalty
3-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BEER OR MALT LIQUOR: Any malt beverage with an alcoholic content of more than
one-half of one percent (0.5%) by volume and not more than three and two-tenths
percent (3.2%) by weight.
BEER STORE: An establishment for the sale of beer, cigars, cigarettes, all
forms of tobacco, beverages, and soft drinks at retail. (Ord. 38.2, 8-1-1989;
amd. 2002 Code)
3-3A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: No person, except wholesalers and manufacturers to the extent
authorized by law, shall deal in or dispose of by gift, sale or otherwise, or
keep or offer for sale, any beer within the city without first having received
a license as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Classifications: Licenses shall be of five (5) kinds: regular on-sale,
temporary on-sale, off-sale, on-sale brewer taproom, and off-sale growler
licenses.
      1.   Regular On-Sale Licenses: Regular on-sale licenses shall be granted
only to bona fide clubs, beer stores, exclusive on-sale liquor stores,
restaurants and hotels where food is prepared and served for consumption on the
premises, and with a seating capacity of at least twenty five (25) people. On-
sale licenses shall permit the sale of beer for consumption on the premises
only. In accordance with Minnesota statutes section 340A.403, any person
licensed to sell intoxicating liquor on-sale shall not be required to obtain an
on-sale license under this section, and may sell malt beverages at on-sale
without further license.
      2.   Temporary On-Sale Licenses: Temporary on-sale licenses shall be
granted only to bona fide clubs and charitable, religious, and nonprofit
organizations for the sale of beer for consumption on the premises only.
      3.   Off-Sale Licenses: Off-sale licenses shall permit the sale of beer
at retail, in the original package, for consumption off the premises only.
      4.   On-Sale Brewer Taproom Licenses: An on-sale brewer taproom license
authorizes on-sale of malt liquor produced by the brewer for consumption on the
premises of or adjacent to one brewery location owned by the brewer, subject to
the restrictions of this chapter and Minnesota statutes, section 340A.301,
subdivision 6b, as it may be amended from time to time.
      5.   Off-Sale Growler Licenses: An off-sale growler license authorizes
off-sale of malt liquor produced by a brewer and packaged in sixty four (64)
ounce or seven hundred fifty milliliter (750 ml) containers that are designed,
sealed and labeled pursuant to Minnesota statutes, section 340A.301,
subdivision 7(b), as it may be amended from time to time. Only brewers licensed
under Minnesota statutes section 340A.301, subdivision 6(d), (i) or (j) are
eligible for an off-sale growler license, subject to the limitations set forth
in subdivision 7(b) of that statute. (Ord. 2012-2, 4-3-2012)
3-3A-3: LICENSE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Form: Every application for a license to sell beer shall be made to the
city clerk on a form supplied by the city and containing such information as
the clerk or the city council may require. It shall be unlawful to make any
false statement in an application. Every application for the issuance or
renewal of a license shall include a copy of each summons and complaint
received by the applicant under Minnesota statutes section 340A.802 during the
preceding year.
   B.   Proof Of Financial Responsibility: Prior to the issuance of a beer
license, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility,
with reference to liability under the Minnesota statutes section 340A.801. Such
proof shall be filed with the commissioner of public safety except that if a
license involves sales of beer of a prospective vendor who is not required by
law to file such proof with the commissioner of public safety, such proof shall
be filed with the city clerk. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of
financial responsibility under this subdivision shall conform to Minnesota
statutes section 340A.409.
   C.   Approval Of Security: Liability insurance policies required by this
article, but not by state law, shall be approved as to form by the city
attorney. Operation of a business licensed by this article without having on
file with the state insurance commissioner or the city at all times effective
security as required in subsection B of this section is a cause for revocation
or suspension of the license. (Ord. 38.2, 8-1-1989; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3A-4: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Payment Required: Each application for a license shall be accompanied
by a receipt from the city treasurer for payment in full of the required fee
for the license. All fees shall be paid into the general fund of the city. Upon
rejection of any application for a license, the treasurer shall refund the
amount paid.
   B.   Expiration; Pro Rata Fees: Every license, except a temporary license,
shall expire on June 30 of each year. Each license, except a temporary license,
shall be issued for a period of one year, except that if a portion of the
license year has elapsed when the license is granted, the license shall be
issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee. In computing such fee,
any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month. A temporary
license shall be issued for a specific period in which a special event to which
the sale is incident is being held, and such period shall be stated on the
license. (Ord. 38.2, 8-1-1989)
   C.   Fees: Fees for licenses required under this article shall be set by
resolution of the city council. (2002 Code)
   D.   Refunds: No part of the fee paid for any license issued under this
article shall be refunded except in the following instances, upon application
to the council within thirty (30) days from the happening of the event. There
shall be refunded a pro rata portion of the fee for the unexpired period of the
license, computed on a monthly basis, when operation of the licensed business
ceases not less than one month before expiration of the license because of:
      1.   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
      2.   The licensee's illness;
      3.   The licensee's death; (Ord. 38.2, 8-1-1989)
      4.   A change in the legal status making it unlawful for the licensed
business to continue. (Ord. 38.2, 8-1-1989; amd. 2002 Code)
3-3A-5: GRANTING OF LICENSE:
   A.   Investigation And Hearing: The city council and the chief of police
shall investigate all facts set out in the application. Opportunity shall be
given to any person to be heard for or against the granting of the license.
After such investigation and hearing, the council shall grant or refuse the
application in its discretion.
   B.   Transfers: Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and shall
not be transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only for
the premises described in the application. No licenses may be transferred to
another place without the approval of the council. (Ord. 38.2, 8-1-1989)
3-3A-6: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
No license shall be granted to or held by any person who:
   A.   Is under twenty one (21) years of age;
   B.   Has, within five (5) years prior to the application for such license,
been convicted of a felony or of violating any law of this state or local
ordinance relating to the manufacture, sale, distribution, or possession for
sale or distribution of malt liquor, and cannot show competent evidence under
Minnesota statutes section 364.03 of sufficient rehabilitation and present
fitness to perform the duties of a beer licensee;
   C.   Is a manufacturer of beer or is interested in the control of any place
where beer is manufactured, except an on-sale brewer taproom license and off-
sale growler license may be issued under subsections 3-3A-2B4 and B5 of this
article;
   D.   Is an alien or a nonresident of the state;
   E.   Is not of good moral character;
   F.   Is or during the period of this license becomes the holder of a federal
retail liquor dealer's special tax stamp for the sale of intoxicating liquor at
any place unless there has also been issued to him a local license to sell
intoxicating liquor at such place; or
   G.   Is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the license is
issued. (Ord. 2012-2, 4-3-2012)
3-3A-7: PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Conviction Or Revocation: No license shall be granted on any premises
where a licensee has been convicted of a violation of this article, or of the
state beer or liquor law, or where any license hereunder has been revoked for
cause until one year has elapsed after such conviction or revocation. (Ord.
38.2, 8-1-1989; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Distance From Schools, Churches And Residential Properties: No license
shall be granted for any place within three hundred feet (300') of any public
school; within three hundred feet (300') of any church; or within three hundred
feet (300') of any residential properties. In applying this restriction, the
distance shall be measured between the main front entrances following the route
of ordinary pedestrian travel.
   C.   Zoning Requirements: No license shall be granted for any place located
in an area zoned for other than business or commercial uses.
   D.   Delinquent Taxes Or Assessments: No license shall be granted for
operation on any premises upon which taxes or assessments or other financial
claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid. (Ord. 38.2, 8-1-1989)
3-3A-8: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   General Conditions: Every license shall be granted subject to the
conditions in the following subsections and all other provisions of this
article and of any other applicable ordinance of the city or state law.
   B.   Insurance: Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of
state law and of this article is a continuing condition of any license granted
pursuant to this article.
   C.   Sales To Minors Or Intoxicated Persons: No beer shall be sold or served
to any intoxicated person or to any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   D.   Consumption By Minors: No person under the age of twenty one (21) years
shall be permitted to consume beer on the licensed premises.
   E.   Employment Of Minors: No minor under eighteen (18) years of age shall
be employed on the premises of a beer store.
   F.   Interest Of Manufacturer Or Wholesaler: No manufacturer or wholesaler
of beer shall have any ownership of or interest in an establishment licensed to
sell at retail contrary to the provisions of Minnesota statutes section
340A.301, subdivision 7. No retail licensee and manufacturer or wholesaler of
beer shall be parties to any exclusive purchase contract. No retail licensee
shall receive any benefits contrary to law from a manufacturer or wholesaler of
beer and no such manufacturer or wholesaler shall confer any benefits contrary
to law upon a retail licensee.
   G.   Liquor Dealer's Stamp: No licensee shall sell beer while holding or
exhibiting in the licensed premises a federal retail liquor dealer's special
tax stamp unless he is licensed under the laws of Minnesota to sell
intoxicating liquor.
   H.   Sale Of Intoxicating Liquor: No licensee who is not also licensed to
sell intoxicating liquor and who does not hold a consumption and display permit
shall sell or permit the consumption or display of intoxicating liquor on the
licensed premises or serve any liquids for the purpose of mixing with
intoxicating liquor. The presence of intoxicating liquor on the premises of
such a licensee shall be prima facie evidence of possession of intoxicating
liquor for the purpose of sale; and the serving of any liquid for the purpose
of mixing with intoxicating liquor shall be prima facie evidence that
intoxicating liquor is being permitted to be consumed or displayed contrary to
this article.
   I.   Searches And Seizures: Any peace officer may enter, inspect, and search
the premises of a licensee during business hours without a search and seizure
warrant and may seize all intoxicating liquor found on the licensed premises in
violation of subsection H of this section.
   J.   Licensee Responsibility: Every licensee shall be responsible for the
conduct of his place of business and shall maintain conditions of sobriety and
order. Any sale of alcoholic beverages by any employee authorized to sell such
beverage is the act of the licensee.
   K.   Banquet Rooms: A regular on-sale license shall entitle the holder to
serve beer in a separate room of the licensed premises for banquets or dinners
at which are present not fewer than twenty five (25) persons. (Ord. 38.2, 8-1-
1989)
3-3A-9: CLOSING HOURS:
Hours and days of sale as outlined in Minnesota statutes section 340A.504 are
adopted as the hours and days of sale within the city, except, however, that
the closing time for all licenses shall remain at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. even
though said statute has now authorized a later closing time. (Ord. 2014-21, 8-
6-2014)
3-3A-10: CLUBS:
No club shall sell beer except to members and to guests in the company of
members. (Ord. 38.2, 8-1-1989)
3-3A-11: RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION:
   A.   Age Misrepresentation: No person under the age of twenty one (21) years
shall misrepresent his age for the purpose of obtaining beer.
   B.   Inducing Purchase: No person shall induce a person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to purchase or procure beer.
   C.   Procurement: No person other than the parent or legal guardian shall
procure beer for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   D.   Possession: No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall have
beer in his possession with the intent to consume it at a place other than the
household of his parent or guardian and with the consent of the parent or
guardian.
   E.   Entering Licensed Premises: It is unlawful for a person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to enter an establishment licensed under this article
in order to purchase beer or have beer served or delivered.
   F.   Proof Of Age: Proof of age for purchasing or consuming beer may be
established only by a valid driver's license or Minnesota identification card,
or in the case of a foreign national, by a valid passport.
   G.   Liquor Consumption And Display: No person shall consume or display any
intoxicating liquor on the premises of a licensee who is not also licensed to
sell intoxicating liquor or who does not hold a consumption and display permit.
(Ord. 38.2, 8-1-1989)
3-3A-12: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION:
   A.   Power Of Council: The council shall either suspend for up to sixty (60)
days or revoke any beer license, or impose a civil fine not to exceed the
maximum allowed by state statute for each violation upon a finding that the
licensee has failed to comply with any applicable statute, regulation, or
ordinance relating to alcoholic beverages.
   B.   Hearing Required: Except in cases of failure of financial
responsibility, no suspension or revocation shall take effect until the
licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to Minnesota
statutes sections 14.57 through 14.69 of the administrative procedure act.
   C.   Failure Of Financial Responsibility:
      1.   Immediate Suspension: Lapse of required dramshop insurance, or
withdrawal of a required deposit of cash or securities, shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this article without
further action of the city council.
      2.   Notice Of Cancellation, Lapse Or Withdrawal: Notice of cancellation,
lapse of a current liquor liability policy, or withdrawal of deposited cash or
securities shall also constitute notice to the licensee of the impending
suspension of the license.
      3.   Request For Hearing: The holder of a license who has received notice
of lapse of required insurance, or withdrawal of a required deposit, or of
suspension or revocation of a license, may request a hearing thereon; and if
such a request is made in writing to the clerk, a hearing shall be granted
within ten (10) days or such longer period as may be requested.
      4.   Length Of Suspension: Any suspension under this section shall
continue until the city council determines that the financial responsibility
requirements of this article have again been met. (Ord. 38.2, 8-1-1989; amd.
2002 Code)
3-3A-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article is guilty of a misdemeanor;
and upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus the cost of prosecution in any case. (Ord. 38.2, 8-1-
1989; amd. 2002 Code)
ARTICLE B. COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Purpose
3-3B-2: Definitions And Interpretations
3-3B-3: License Required
3-3B-4: Prohibited Sales
3-3B-5: Responsibility
3-3B-6: Enforcement
3-3B-7: Compliance Checks And Inspections
3-3B-8: Exceptions And Defenses
3-3B-9: Judicial Review
3-3B-1: PURPOSE:
Because the city finds that there is a connection between high risk and illegal
conduct related to the illegal sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within the city; and since the city further believes it is in the best
interests of its citizens for the city to regulate the sale and distribution of
alcoholic beverages in a manner which will help to prevent illegal sales and
the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages by minors and underage adults
(those under the legal drinking age), the city believes that it is in the best
interests of its citizens and the general public that the city adopt this
article providing for compliance checks and administrative penalties for
licensees who sell, barter or dispense intoxicating and nonintoxicating
beverages in violation of the provisions of Minnesota statutes chapter 340A and
applicable law. (Ord. 78, 9-4-2001)
3-3B-2: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall include
the plural and the plural shall include the singular. The term "shall" means
mandatory and the term "may" means permissive. The following terms shall have
the definitions given to them:
COMPLIANCE CHECKS: The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell alcoholic beverages are following and complying with
the requirements of applicable state laws and city ordinances with regard to
the sale of alcoholic beverages. Compliance checks may involve the use of
individuals (including minors) under the age of twenty one (21) as authorized
by this article.
INTOXICATING AND NONINTOXICATING LIQUOR: Alcoholic beverages as referred to in
this article are intended to refer to both intoxicating and nonintoxicating
liquors as those terms are defined by Minnesota statute.
   A.   An intoxicating liquor is any distilled, fermented spirituous, vinous
and malt beverage containing more than 3.2 percent ethyl alcohol by weight.
   B.   A nonintoxicating liquor is any malt liquor containing not less than
one-half of one percent alcohol by volume nor more than 3.2 percent alcohol by
weight.
MINOR: Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of eighteen (18)
years.
SALE: Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
UNDERAGE ADULT: Any natural person who is an adult but who has not yet reached
the legal age for the consumption of intoxicating or nonintoxicating beverages
as defined by then existing Minnesota statute. At the time of the adoption of
this article the legal age for consumption of intoxicating and nonintoxicating
beverage is twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord. 78, 9-4-2001)
3-3B-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person or retail establishment shall sell or offer to sell any intoxicating
or nonintoxicating beverage product without first having obtained a license to
do so from the city. Any license issued by the city may be revoked or suspended
as provided in section
3-3B-6 of this article. (Ord. 78, 9-4-2001)
3-3B-4: PROHIBITED SALES:
It shall be a violation of this article for any person to sell or offer to sell
any intoxicating or nonintoxicating alcoholic beverage:
   A.   To any person under the then existing legal drinking age as that term
is defined by Minnesota statute.
   B.   By any other means, or to any other person, prohibited by federal,
state or other local law, ordinance provision or other regulation. (Ord. 78, 9-
4-2001)
3-3B-5: RESPONSIBILITY:
All licensees shall be responsible for the actions of their employees in regard
to the sale of alcoholic beverage on the licensed premises, and for purposes of
this article the sale of such an item by an employee shall be considered a sale
by the license holder. (Ord. 78, 9-4-2001)
3-3B-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violations And Penalties: For purposes of determining the number of
occurrences of violations, the city council shall consider a violation as a
second occurrence if it occurred within eighteen (18) months of the first
violation; and shall consider a violation as a third occurrence if it occurred
within thirty (30) months of the second violation; and shall consider a
violation a fourth occurrence if it occurred within thirty (30) months of the
third violation. If there is a change of ownership (meaning at least 50 percent
of the ownership is transferred to an unrelated party) of the licensed
establishment, previous violation will not apply.
      1.   First violation, the licensee shall pay a civil fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and participate in training concerning liquor and beer sales
regulations and restrictions.
      2.   Second violation, the licensee shall pay a civil fine of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and participate in training concerning liquor and
beer sales regulations and restrictions.
      3.   Third violation, the licensee shall pay a civil fine of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00), have its license suspended for five (5) days as determined
by the chief of police, and participate in training concerning liquor and beer
sales regulations and restrictions.
      4.   Fourth violation, the licensee's license shall be revoked.
All administrative fees imposed by this article are deemed payable within sixty
(60) days of the date of citation or no later than thirty (30) days after the
date of any written decision determining that a violation has occurred for all
appeals. Failure to pay any administrative fee imposed within the time limits
set herein will result in a license suspension until the date of payment.
   B.   Citation Process And Right To Hearing: Upon discovery of a violation of
this article or pursuant to a compliance check, the involved clerk or bartender
and the licensee shall be issued a citation by city police. Each violation, and
every day in which a violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate
offense. All fees imposed by this article will be payable to the city
administrator. No administrative fee may be imposed until the clerk or
bartender and the licensee has received written notice of the violation by
personal service or by certified mail sent to the location of the alleged
violation and the cited parties have been afforded an opportunity for a
hearing. Any cited party that requests a hearing in writing within twenty (20)
days of the date of mailing of the written notice of violation will be afforded
an opportunity for a hearing before a person authorized by the licensing
authority to conduct the hearing. A decision that a violation has occurred must
be in writing and will be completed within ten (10) days of the hearing.
   C.   Right To Obtain Transcript: If a hearing is requested, the hearing will
not be recorded and will only be transcribed if all financial arrangements are
made in advance with a certified court reporter by the person requesting the
hearing. Furthermore, any person requesting that the hearing be transcribed
agrees to provide the city with a copy of the transcript at no cost to the
city. (Ord. 78, 9-4-2001)
3-3B-7: COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Compliance Checks: All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by
city police or other authorized city officials during regular business hours.
From time to time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct
compliance checks by engaging underage youth to enter the licensed premises to
attempt to purchase alcoholic beverage. No minor or underage adult used
incompliance checks shall attempt to use a false identification or theatrical
makeup which misrepresents their age. All minors and underage adults lawfully
engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about their age
truthfully when asked by the licensee and shall produce any identification
which he is asked to produce. In all instances, the minors or underage adults
shall be accompanied by city police or authorized city officials to the
location of the compliance check.
   B.   Mandatory Keg Registration: As of the date of the adoption of this
article, all off sale licensed establishments will be required to register and
mark for identification all kegs sold to the public. The information that will
be required for registration includes, but is not limited to, any registration
number located or placed on the keg, the name and address and driver's license
number of the individual to whom the keg was sold, the day in which the keg was
sold, the brand of beer in the keg and the keg size. Merchants/licensees will
be required to maintain this information on all kegs sold within the city for a
minimum of one year. In addition, the merchant/licensee will be required to
make this information available to the city police officers upon demand during
normal hours of operation. Merchant license holders will be required to mark
the kegs sold in a manner in which to allow them to specifically identify them.
Failure to comply with this provision will result in an administrative penalty
of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a first offense and five hundred dollars
($500.00) for a second or any subsequent offense. (Ord. 78, 9-4-2001)
3-3B-8: EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES:
Nothing in this article shall prevent the providing or use of alcoholic
beverages to underage adults or minors as part of a lawfully recognized
religious, spiritual or cultural ceremony, or by a parent or guardian of a
minor or underage adult in the household of the parent or guardian. It shall
also be an affirmative defense to the violation of this article for a person to
have reasonable relied on proof of age as described by law. (Ord. 78, 9-4-2001)
3-3B-9: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person who maintains they are aggrieved by a decision pursuant to this
article may have the decision reviewed in the district court consistent with
Minnesota statutes section 462.361. (Ord. 78, 9-4-2001)
CHAPTER 4
ADULT USES AND SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Findings And Purposes
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: License Required
3-4-4: Persons Ineligible For License
3-4-5: Places Ineligible For License
3-4-6: Nonconforming Uses
3-4-7: Conditions Of License
3-4-8: Revocation, Suspension Or Nonrenewal Of License
3-4-9: Sign Restrictions
3-4-10: Penalty
3-4-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to control, through licensing
and zoning regulations, certain land uses that have a direct and detrimental
effect on the character of the city's residential and commercial neighborhoods.
   B.   Findings: The city council makes the following findings about the
effect adult uses and sexually oriented businesses have on the character of the
city's neighborhoods. In making the findings, the city council accepts the
recommendations of staff that has studied the experiences of other urban areas
about such businesses. The Minnesota attorney general; the American planning
association; and the cities of St. Paul and Rochester, Minnesota; Indianapolis;
Phoenix, Arizona; Los Angeles, Seattle and New York have studied the impacts of
adult uses and sexually oriented businesses on urban areas. These studies have
concluded that adult uses and sexually oriented businesses have adverse impacts
on the surrounding neighborhoods. Based on these studies and findings, the city
council concludes:
      1.   Adult uses and sexually oriented businesses can contribute to an
increase in crime in the area where such businesses are located. This can be a
burden to city crime prevention programs and law enforcement services.
      2.   Adult uses and sexually oriented businesses can significantly
contribute to the deterioration of residential neighborhoods and can increase
neighborhood blight. These businesses also can impair the character and quality
of the residential housing in the area where such businesses are. This
situation could lessen the amount of desirable housing for residents.
      3.   The concentration of adult uses and sexually oriented businesses in
one area can greatly affect the area where such businesses are concentrated and
on the quality of urban life. A cycle of decay can result from the influx and
concentration of adult uses and sexually oriented businesses. Others may
perceive the presence of such businesses as an indication that the area is
deteriorating and the result can be devastating. That is, other businesses move
out of the vicinity and residents flee from the area. Lower property values
that can result from the concentration of such businesses erode the city's tax
base and contribute to urban blight.
      4.   Adult uses and sexually oriented businesses have adverse secondary
impacts of the type discussed above.
      5.   It is necessary to provide for the special and express regulation of
businesses, establishments or commercial enterprises that operate as adult body
painting studios, adult bookstores, adult cabarets, adult car washes, adult
companionship establishments, adult hotels or motels, adult massage parlors or
health clubs, adult minimotion picture theaters, adult modeling studios, adult
motion picture arcades or theaters, adult novelty businesses, adult saunas, and
similar adult oriented services operating under different names to protect the
public health, safety and welfare, and to guard against the inception and
transmission of disease.
      6.   The commercial enterprises such as the types described in subsection
B5 of this section and all other similar establishments whose services include
sessions offered to adults conducted in private by members of the same or
opposite sex, and employing personnel with no specialized training are
susceptible to operations contravening, subverting, or endangering the morals
of the city by being the site of acts of prostitution, illicit sex, and
occasions of violent crimes, and thus requiring close inspection, licensing and
regulation.
      7.   Control and regulation of commercial establishments of these types,
in view of the abuses often perpetrated, require intensive efforts by the
police department and other departments of the city. It is necessary for the
city to provide services to all of the city without concentrating the public
services in one area. The concentrated use of city services detracts from and
reduces the level of service available to the rest of the city. Thus, these
types of establishments can diminish the ability of the city to protect and
promote the general health, welfare, morals and safety of the city.
      8.   The city council adopts the following land use and licensing
regulations, recognizing that it has an interest in the present and future
character of the city's residential and commercial neighborhoods. These
regulations are to lessen the detrimental and adverse effects adult uses and
sexually oriented businesses have on adjacent land uses and to protect and
promote the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city.
It is not the intent of the city council to prohibit adult uses or sexually
oriented businesses or establishments from having an opportunity to locate in
the city. It also is not the intent of the city council to regulate these
businesses on the basis of content, but only on the basis of likely adverse
secondary effects. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words shall have the following meanings:
ADULT USE, ACCESSORY: The offering of goods and/or services classified as adult
uses on a limited scale that are incidental to the primary activity and goods
and/or services offered by the establishment. Examples of such items include
adult magazines, adult movies, adult novelties, and the like.
ADULT USES: Adult body painting studios, adult bookstores, adult cabaret, adult
car wash, adult hotels or motels, adult motion picture theaters, adult
minimotion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult health/sport clubs,
adult saunas/steam rooms/bath houses, adult companionship establishments, adult
rap/conversation parlors, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture
arcades, adult modeling studios, and other premises, enterprises,
establishments, businesses, or places open to some or all members of the public
at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas which
the public could see. This definition does not apply to the practice of
medicine, surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy or podiatry by
state licensed or registered persons. Activities classified as obscene as
defined by Minnesota statutes section 617.241 are not lawful and are not
included in the definition of adult uses.
ADULT USES, PRINCIPAL: The offering of goods and/or services classified as
adult uses as a primary or sole activity of a business or establishment and
include, but are not limited to, the following:
   Adult Body Painting Studio: An establishment or business that provides the
service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent or
nontransparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Bookstore: An establishment, building or business engaging in the
barter, rental, or sale of items or merchandise consisting of printed matter,
pictures, slides, records, audiotapes, videotapes, computer or video disks,
motion picture film, or any other similar materials, if such a shop is not open
to the public generally but only to one or more classes of the public,
excluding any minor because of age, if more than twenty percent (20%) of the
usable floor area of the establishment, building or business, or if at least
five hundred (500) square feet, whichever is smaller, has products or materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing
or related to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Cabaret: An establishment, building or business that provides dancing
or other live entertainment if such dancing or other live entertainment is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the performance, presentation,
display, depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   Adult Car Wash: A wash facility for any type of motor vehicle that allows
employees, agents, independent contractors or persons to appear in a state of
partial or total nudity in terms of specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Companionship Establishment: An establishment or business if such
establishment excludes minors because of age, or which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if such service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   Adult Entertainment Facility: A building or space in which an admission is
charged for entrance, or food or nonalcoholic beverages are sold or intended
for consumption, and in which may be observed live presentation of
entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   Adult Establishment: An establishment, building or business engaging in any
of the following activities or which uses any of the following business
procedures or practices, either:
   A.   Any business conducted exclusively for the patronage of adults and
about which minors are specifically excluded from patronage thereat either by
law or by the operators of such business; or
   B.   Any other business that offers its patrons services, products or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, exposing,
describing, discussing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
Specifically included in the term, but without limitation, are adult
bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult minimotion picture theaters,
adult massage parlors, adult health clubs, adult saunas, adult companionship
establishments, adult health clubs, adult cabarets, adult car washes, adult
novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult
hotel or motel, and adult body painting studios.
   Adult Hotel Or Motel: A hotel or motel from which minors are specifically
excluded from patronage and in which material is presented that is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Massage Parlor, Health/Sport Club: A massage parlor or health/sport
club that restricts minors because of age, which provides the services of
massage, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Minimotion Picture Theater: A business, building or establishment in
an enclosed building with a capacity for less than fifty (50) persons used for
presenting visual media material if such business as a prevailing practice
excludes minors by virtue of age, or if said material is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
   Adult Modeling Studio: An establishment or business whose major business is
the provision to customers of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers who
engage in specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted by such customers.
   Adult Motion Picture Arcade: Any building or place to which the public is
allowed or invited in which coin or slug operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, computers, or other image producing devices that show images to
five (5) or fewer persons per machine at once, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Motion Picture Theaters: A business premises within an enclosed
building with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used for presenting
visual media material if said business as a prevailing practice excludes minors
by virtue of age, or if said material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
   Adult Novelty Business: A business that has as a principal activity the sale
of materials or devices that stimulate human genitals or devices designed for
sexual stimulation or which depict or which relate to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult Sauna/Steam Room/Bathhouse: A business that excludes minors because of
age, or which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for bathing,
pleasure, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna/steam room/
bathhouse is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
LICENSED FAMILY DAYCARE HOME, LICENSED GROUP FAMILY DAYCARE HOME, LICENSED
CHILDCARE CENTER: A facility holding a license from Crow Wing County or
Minnesota pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapter 245A and/or Minnesota rules
chapter 9502 or chapter 9503, as amended.
MINOR: Any natural person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than fully opaque covering; the showing of the female breast with less
than fully opaque covering of any portion thereof below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; or the depiction or showing of the male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
PLACE OF WORSHIP: A building or space that is principally used as a place where
people of the same faith or religion regularly assemble for worship.
PUBLIC LIBRARY: Any library that provides free access to all residents of a
city or county without discrimination and is organized under the provisions of
Minnesota statutes chapter 134.
PUBLIC PARK: A park, reservation, open space, playground, beach or recreation
or community center in the city, owned, leased, or used, wholly or in part, by
a city, county, state, school district or federal government for recreational
purposes.
SCHOOL: A building or space that is principally used as a place where twenty
five (25) or more persons receive a full course of educational instruction. Any
postsecondary or posthigh school educational building, including any college or
any vocational- technical college, shall not be deemed a school for purposes of
this chapter.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An "adult book store", "adult body painting
studio", "adult car wash", "adult cabaret", "adult hotel or motel", "adult
companionship establishment", "adult motion picture theater", "adult minimotion
picture theater", "adult massage parlor", "adult entertainment facility",
"adult health or sports club", "adult novelty business", "adult modeling
studio", or "adult sauna" as defined herein. Activities classified as "obscene"
as defined by Minnesota statutes section 617.241 are not lawful and are not
included in the definition of adult uses.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Anatomical areas consist of:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covering human genitals, pubic region
or pubic hair, buttock, anus, or female breast or breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areola or any combination of the foregoing;
and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Activities consisting of the following:
   A.   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation or
fondling of unclothed genitals, pubic region, buttock or female breast,
flagellation or torture in a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory
functions in a sexual relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented
acts or conduct: anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus,
fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, sodomy,
zooerasty;
   B.   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;
   C.   Use or acts of human or animal ejaculation, sexual intercourse, sodomy,
oral copulation, coitus, or masturbation;
   D.   Fondling or touching of human genitals, pubic regions or pubic hair,
buttocks, or female breast or breasts;
   E.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, clad in
undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, who are engaged in activities
involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other physical
restraint of any such person;
   F.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented contact
with an animal by a human being;
   G.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation;
or
   H.   Any combination of the above. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
3-4-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required; Types: No person shall own or operate an adult use or
sexually oriented business in the city without having first secured a license
as provided herein. Licenses shall be one of two (2) types:
      1.   Adult use principal.
      2.   Adult use accessory.
   B.   Application: The City shall prepare an application for an adult use
principal or sexually oriented business license. This application shall
include:
      1.   The name, residence, phone number and birth date of the applicant,
if an individual; and, if a corporation, partnership, LLC or similar entity,
the names, residences, phone numbers and birth dates of those owners holding
more than five percent (5%) of the issued and outstanding stock of the
corporation or ownership interest in a partnership, LLC or similar entity;
      2.   The name, address, phone number and birth date of the operator and
manager of such operation, if different from the owners;
      3.   The address and legal description of the building, establishment or
premises where the adult use or sexually oriented business is to be located;
      4.   A statement detailing each gross misdemeanor or felony relating to a
sex offense and/or the operation of adult uses and related activities of which
the applicant or, for a corporation, the owners of more than five percent (5%)
of the issued and outstanding stock of the corporation, or ownership interest
in a partnership, LLC or similar entity, have been convicted, and whether the
applicant has ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar type of
business in other cities;
      5.   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
      6.   The hours of operation;
      7.   The provisions made to restrict access by minors;
      8.   A building plan of the premises detailing internal operations and
activities; and
      9.   A description or building plan that details all proposed interior
and exterior changes to an existing building or structure. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996)
   C.   License Fees:
      1.   Payment; Receipt: Each application for a license shall be
accompanied by a receipt from the city finance officer for payment in full of
the required application and investigative fee for the license as established
by the city council. All fees shall be paid into the general fund of the city.
(Ord. 68, 8-20-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
      2.   Prorated Fee: The city shall issue each license for one year, except
that if part of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, the
city may issue a license for the remainder of the year for a prorated fee. In
computing such fee, the city shall count any unexpired fraction of a month as
one month. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996)
      3.   Annual Fee; Investigative Fee: The annual fee and the investigative
fee for an adult use or sexually oriented business license shall be as
established from time to time by the city council. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996; amd.
Ord. 68.1, 10-7-1997; 2002 Code)
      4.   Refund: No part of the fee paid for any license issued under this
chapter shall be refunded except in the following instances upon application to
the city administrator within thirty (30) days from the happening of the event.
The city shall refund a prorated portion of the fee for the unexpired period of
the license, computed monthly, when operation of the licensed business ceases
not less than one month before expiration of the license because of: (Ord. 68,
8-20-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
         a.   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
         b.   The licensee's illness;
         c.   The licensee's death;
         d.   A change in the legal status making it unlawful for the licensed
business to continue.
      5.   Withholding Information; False Information: Each application shall
contain a provision on the application in bold print stating that any
withholding of information or the providing of false or misleading information
will be grounds for the denial or revocation of a license.
      6.   Change In Information: Any changes in the information provided on
the application or provided during the investigation shall be reported to the
city council by the applicant or licensee. If said changes take place during
the investigation, the data shall be provided to the city administrator in
writing, and the administrator shall report the changes to the city council.
Failure to report said changes by the applicant or the licensee may result in a
denial or revocation of a license.
   D.   Granting Of License: The city shall investigate all facts set out in
the application. After the city finishes its investigation, the city shall hold
a public hearing and shall give everyone to be heard for or against the
granting of the license a chance to present their views. After the
investigation and public hearing, the city council shall grant or refuse the
application. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996)
   E.   Term: All licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year. (Ord. 68, 8-
20-1996; amd. Ord. 68.1, 10-7-1997)
   F.   Transfer Of License: The city shall only issue the license to the
applicant. The license shall not be transferred to another holder. The city
shall only issue each license for the premises or location described in the
application. No license may be transferred to another place without the
approval of the city council. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996)
3-4-4: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
The city shall not grant a license to nor may one be held by any person who:
   A.   Is under twenty one (21) years of age;
   B.   Has been convicted of a felony or of violating any Minnesota law;
   C.   Is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the license is
issued;
   D.   Has not paid the license and investigative fees required by this
chapter;
   E.   Is not a citizen of the United States; or
   F.   Has had an adult use or similar license or permit revoked under an
ordinance or statute similar to this. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996)
3-4-5: PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Prior Violation; Revocation: No license shall be granted for adult uses
or sexually oriented business on any premises where a licensee has been
convicted of a violation of this chapter, or where any license hereunder has
been revoked for cause, until one year has elapsed after such conviction or
revocation.
   B.   Compliance Required; Exception: Except uses lawfully existing at the
time of the adoption of this chapter, no license shall be granted for any adult
use or sexually oriented business that does not meet all city ordinance
requirements, all building and fire code requirements, and all provisions of
state and federal law. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996)
3-4-6: NONCONFORMING USES:
Any adult use or sexually oriented business existing on the effective date of
the adoption of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   Expansion; Enlargement: No such adult use or sexually oriented business
shall be expanded or enlarged except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Obtain License: A nonconforming adult use or sexually oriented business
shall be required to apply for and receive an adult use license from the city.
The city does not require a public hearing before issuing a license for the
nonconforming adult use or sexually oriented business. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996)
3-4-7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   Applicable Law: Every license shall be granted subject to the
conditions in the following subsections and all other provisions of this
chapter and of any applicable city, state and federal law.
      2.   Posting Of License: All licensed premises shall have the license
posted in a conspicuous place.
      3.   Minors:
         a.   Not Allowed On Premises: No minor shall be allowed in or on the
premises of an adult use or sexually oriented business.
         b.   Offer, Sale, Transfer, Etc., To Minor: No adult goods, materials
or services shall be offered, sold, transferred, conveyed, given, displayed or
bartered to any minor.
      4.   Inspections: Any designated inspection officer or law enforcement
officer of the city shall have the right to enter, inspect, and search the
premises of a licensee during business hours.
      5.   Responsibility Of Licensee: Every licensee shall be responsible for
the conduct of their place of business and shall maintain conditions consistent
with this chapter and the city ordinances generally. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996)
   B.   Adult Use Principal: The city permits adult use principal and sexually
oriented businesses only in the industrial/office zoning districts, subject to
the following conditions:
      1.   Required Distances:
         a.   No adult use principal or sexually oriented business shall be
located closer than one thousand feet (1,000') from any other adult use
principal or sexually oriented business in the city. Measurements shall be made
in a straight line, without regard to city boundaries, intervening structures
or objects, from the nearest point of the actual business premises of the adult
use principal or sexually oriented business to the nearest point of the actual
business premises of any other adult use principal or sexually oriented
business.
         b.   No adult use principal or sexually oriented business shall be
located closer than seven hundred feet (700') from any residential lot line,
place of worship, school, public park, open space, licensed family daycare
home, licensed group family daycare home, public library, or licensed child
care or daycare center in the city. Measurements shall be made in a straight
line, without regard to city boundaries, intervening structures or objects,
from the nearest point of the actual business premises of the adult use
principal or sexually oriented business to the nearest property line of the
premises or building used as a dwelling or residence, place of worship, school,
public park, open space, licensed family daycare home, licensed group family
daycare home, public library, or licensed child care or daycare center.
         c.   No adult use principal or sexually oriented business shall be
located closer than seven hundred feet (700') from any residential lot line,
any residential zoning district or any residential planned unit development
(PUD) in the city. Measurements shall be made in a straight line, without
regard to city boundaries, intervening structures or objects, from the nearest
point of the actual business premises of the adult use or sexually oriented
business to the nearest residential lot line, boundary of the residential
zoning district or planned unit development (PUD). (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996; amd.
2002 Code)
      2.   Compliance Required: All adult uses and sexually oriented businesses
must follow all of this chapter.
      3.   Use Limited: The city prohibits any building owner or operator from
having more than one of the following uses, tenants or activities in the same
building or structure:
Adult body painting studio.
Adult bookstore.
Adult cabaret.
Adult car wash.
Adult companionship establishment.
Adult entertainment facility.
Adult health/sports club.
Adult hotel or motel.
Adult massage parlor.
Adult minimotion picture theater.
Adult modeling studio.
Adult motion picture theater.
Adult novelty business.
Adult sauna/steam room/bath house.
Any business or establishment in which there is an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction, or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas that the public can see. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996)
      4.   Liquor: An adult use principal and sexually oriented business shall
not sell or dispense malt or intoxicating liquors, nor shall it be located in a
building that contains a business that sells or dispenses malt or intoxicating
liquors. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
      5.   Prohibited Conduct:
         a.   Activity: No adult use principal and sexually oriented business
entertainment shall engage in any activity or conduct or permit any other
person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the adult use
establishment that is prohibited by any ordinance of the city, the laws of the
state or the United States of America. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as authorizing or permitting conduct that is prohibited or regulated
by other statutes, ordinances, including, but not limited to, statutes or
ordinances prohibiting the exhibition, sale or distribution of obscene material
generally, or the exhibition, sale or distribution of specified materials to
minors.
         b.   Location:
            (1)   Any adult use establishment must be designed so that any
nudity, specified sexual activity or the exposure of any specified anatomical
area is conducted in a performance area separated from the patrons by a
barrier. Said barrier must either be: a) a glass wall that goes from floor to
ceiling and is of sufficient width so that one cannot touch the performance
area while sitting or standing in the patron area or b) a permanent low wall,
rail or other permanent structure that prevents patrons from getting closer
than ten feet (10') from the performance area.
            (2)   It shall be unlawful for any "patron", which for the purposes
of this subsection B5b shall mean anyone who pays or will pay for entry into
the adult use establishment or pays or will pay for any beverage, food or
service within the adult use establishment, to enter the performance area.
            (3)   It shall be unlawful for any employee, performer (including
amateur performer) or patron in any adult use establishment to engage in any
specified sexual activity or expose any specified anatomical area outside of
this performance area as described in subsection B5b(1) of this section.
            (4)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to purposely or knowingly
solicit, induce, or attempt to induce any employee, performer (including
amateur performer) or patron in any adult use establishment to engage in any
specified sexual activity or expose any specified anatomical area outside of
this performance area as described in subsection B5b(1) of this section.
            (5)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, proprietor or
manager of any adult use establishment to allow any employee, performer
(including amateur performer) or patron in any such establishment to engage in
any specified sexual activity or expose any specified anatomical area outside
of this performance area as described in subsection B5b(1) of this section.
(Ord. 2003-1, 8-5-2003)
      6.   View From Unapproved Property: No adult use principal or sexually
oriented business shall be conducted in any manner that permits the perception
or observation from any property not approved as an adult use of any materials
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas by any visual or auditory media, including display,
decoration, sign, show window, sound transmission or other means.
      7.   Sign Required: All adult use principal and sexually oriented
businesses shall prominently display a sign at the entrance and located within
two feet (2') of the door opening device of the adult use establishment or
section of the establishment devoted to adult books or materials which states:
This business sells or displays material containing adult themes. Persons under
18 years of age shall not enter.
      8.   Age Restriction: No person under the age of eighteen (18) years
shall be permitted on or in the premises of an adult use or sexually oriented
business establishment. No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be
permitted access to material displayed, offered for sale, given, transferred,
conveyed or rented by an adult use or sexually oriented business.
      9.   Hours Of Operation: Adult use principal and sexually oriented
businesses shall not be open between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on the days of Monday through Saturday, nor between
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Sunday.
   C.   Adult Use Accessory: The city may issue adult use accessory licenses to
businesses or establishments located in the commercial or light commercial
zoning districts subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Maximum Area: The adult use accessory shall comprise no more than
twenty percent (20%) of the floor area or up to five hundred (500) square feet,
whichever is smaller, of the establishment, space, structure or building in
which it is located.
      2.   Display Areas: Display areas for adult movie or videotape rentals or
other products shall be restricted from general view and shall be located
within a separate room from which access is in clear view and in the control of
the person responsible for the operation.
      3.   Magazines; Publications: Magazines and publications or other similar
products classified or qualified as adult uses shall not be accessible to
minors and shall be covered with a wrapper or other means to prevent display of
any materials other than the publication title.
      4.   Advertising; Signing: Adult use accessory shall be prohibited from
both internal and external advertising and signing of adult materials and
products. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996)
3-4-8: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR NONRENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds: The city council may revoke, suspend, or not renew a license
upon recommendation of the city administrator that shows the licensee, its
owners, managers, employees, agents or any other interested parties have
engaged in any of the following conduct:
      1.   Fraud, deception or misrepresentation about securing the license.
      2.   Habitual drunkenness or intemperance in use of drugs including, but
not limited to, the use of drugs defined in Minnesota statutes section 618.01,
barbiturates, hallucinogenic drugs, amphetamines, benzedrine, dexedrine or
other sedatives, depressants, stimulants or tranquilizers.
      3.   Engaging in conduct involving moral turpitude or permitting or
allowing others within their employ or agency to engage in conduct involving
moral turpitude or failing to prevent agents, officers, or employees in
engaging in conduct involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure to follow any requirement of the ordinances of the city
about sanitary and safety conditions, zoning requirements, building code
requirements or ordinances, the violation of which involves moral turpitude, or
failure to follow the requirements of this chapter.
      5.   Conviction of an offense involving moral turpitude. (Ord. 68, 8-20-
1996)
   B.   Appeal: The licensee may appeal such suspension, revocation or
nonrenewal to the city council. The council shall consider the appeal at a
regularly scheduled public hearing on or after ten (10) days from service of
the notice of appeal to the city administrator. At the conclusion of the
hearing, the council may order:
      1.   The revocation, suspension or nonrenewal be affirmed;
      2.   The revocation, suspension or nonrenewal be lifted and that the
license be returned to the licensee.
      3.   The council may impose, at their discretion, any additional terms,
conditions or stipulations for the suspension or issuance of the license. (Ord.
68, 8-20-1996; amd. 2002 Code)
3-4-9: SIGN RESTRICTIONS:
The following sign regulations shall apply to all adult use and sexually
oriented businesses in the city. These regulations are to protect children from
exposure to sexually oriented or shocking signs and materials and to preserve
the value of property near adult use and sexually oriented businesses. These
regulations are aside from any other provision of this code:
   A.   All signs shall be flat wall or freestanding signs. No signs shall be
located on the roof, or contain any flashing lights, moving elements, or
electronically or mechanically changing messages.
   B.   The city's sign regulations for the zoning district where the business
is located shall regulate the amount of allowable sign area and the number of
allowed signs for an adult use or sexually oriented business.
   C.   No merchandise, photos, or pictures of the products or entertainment on
the premises shall be displayed in window areas or any area where they can be
viewed from the sidewalk or public right of way adjoining the building or
structure in which the adult use or sexually oriented business is located.
   D.   No signs shall be placed in any window. A two foot (2') square sign may
be placed on the door to state hours of operation and admittance to adults
only. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996)
3-4-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, shall be punished not more than the maximum penalty for a
misdemeanor as prescribed by state law. (Ord. 68, 8-20-1996)
CHAPTER 5
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: License Required
3-5-2: Application
3-5-3: License Fee
3-5-4: Fire Protection
3-5-5: Health Precautions
3-5-6: Good Order On Premises
3-5-7: Penalty
3-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate or engage in the business of operating an amusement
center, bowling alley or pool hall within the limits of this city without
paying for each such operation the license fee and obtaining a license
therefor. (Ord. 4.1, 1-19-1988)
3-5-2: APPLICATION:
The applicant for a license shall disclose upon or attach to the form of
application the following information:
   A.   His name and business and home addresses; or if the applicant is a
partnership, association or corporation, the name and address of such
partnership, association or corporation;
   B.   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and business and home
addresses of all partners; if the applicant is an association or corporation,
the names and business and home addresses of the majority of the owners
thereof;
   C.   The address of the business; and
   D.   A plan of the premises in which such business is to be conducted, drawn
to scale, showing the number and location of the amusement devices, pool
tables, and/or bowling lanes, the location and a description of standpipes and
fire extinguishing equipment, the location of exits, the width and location of
all doors, and the location and arrangement of toilet and washing facilities.
(Ord. 4.1, 1-19-1988)
3-5-3: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for each year or any portion thereof shall be as set from time
to time by the city council. Licenses shall be issued for a period of one year,
from July 1 to June 30, expiring June 30 of any given year. (Ord. 4.2, 6-18-
1991; amd. 2002 Code)
3-5-4: FIRE PROTECTION:
Every such business and the equipment therein shall comply with all of the
applicable requirements for protection against fire contained in Minnesota
statutes. (Ord. 4.1, 1-19-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
3-5-5: HEALTH PRECAUTIONS:
Every such business and the equipment therein shall comply with all of the
applicable requirements for protection of health contained in Minnesota
statutes. (Ord. 4.1, 1-19-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
3-5-6: GOOD ORDER ON PREMISES:
The owner or operator of any such business shall be responsible for the
maintenance of good order on his premises and shall provide a sufficient number
of attendants to eject persons who misconduct themselves by rude, boisterous or
offensive behavior, shouting, pushing, or use of obscene or insulting language.
Failure on the part of the owner or operator or his employees to exercise all
reasonable means of maintaining good order shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter, and cause for revocation or nonrenewal of the license provided for
herein. (Ord. 4.1, 1-19-1988)
3-5-7: PENALTY:
Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. Such penalty may be imposed in addition to suspension or
revocation of a license. (Ord. 4.1, 1-19-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 6
LAWFUL GAMBLING
SECTION:
3-6-1: Declaration Of Policy
3-6-2: State Law Adopted
3-6-3: License Required
3-6-4: Application
3-6-5: Granting Of Licenses
3-6-6: Organizations Ineligible For License Approval
3-6-7: Conditions Of License
3-6-8: Revocation; Suspension
3-6-9: Penalty
3-6-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
In order to promote the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city,
it is necessary that measures relating to the licensing and conduct of lawful
gambling within the city be established. The council shall grant, suspend, and
revoke licenses subject to the applicable state laws and regulations relative
to lawful gambling within the state, and shall endeavor to prevent syndicates,
outside influences, and the like from infiltrating the organizations licensed
to conduct such lawful gambling within the city. The council shall be satisfied
that each applicant for a license is the operator in fact of its establishment
and will conduct it in conformance with the laws of the state and this chapter.
(Ord. 44.1, 4-19-1988)
3-6-2: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
Chapter 349 of Minnesota statutes, as now exists or shall be hereinafter
amended, as well as the adopted rules of the gambling control board, as now
exist or are hereinafter amended, are hereby adopted and made a part of this
chapter as if fully set out herein. (Ord. 44.1, 4-19-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
3-6-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person or organization shall conduct lawful gambling as defined by the laws
of the state without the required state license issued through the gambling
control board and as approved by the city under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 44.1, 4-19-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
3-6-4: APPLICATION:
Every application for a gambling license shall be verified and filed with the
city clerk and shall be in compliance with the statutes and the rules governing
same adopted by the state and the gambling control board. (Ord. 44.1, 4-19-
1988; amd. 2002 Code)
3-6-5: GRANTING OF LICENSES:
The city police shall investigate the facts set out in the application and do a
background check on the applicant, making its recommendation to the city
council based thereon concerning the applicant. After such investigation and
recommendation, the city council shall act on the application in granting it or
refusing it at its discretion. (Ord. 44.1, 4-19-1988)
3-6-6: ORGANIZATIONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE APPROVAL:
No license shall be approved as to any organization or person not eligible for
such license under state law. Applicants must have their home office or base of
operations within the city limits of either the city of Baxter or the city of
Brainerd, Minnesota, and be an organization which serves the residents of
either city. (Ord. 44.2A, 12-17-1998)
3-6-7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
Every license shall be approved subject to the conditions in the following
subsections and all other provisions of this chapter and of any other
applicable ordinance of the city or state law:
   A.   Responsibility Of Licensee: Every licensee shall be responsible for the
conduct of its place of operation as described in its license application. Any
peace officer of the city shall have the unqualified right to enter, inspect
and search such premises of the licensee during business hours in order to
ensure that such premises are conducted in compliance with this chapter and
applicable state laws and regulations.
   B.   Liquor License Required: The premises within which lawful gambling may
be conducted pursuant to this chapter must be duly licensed for the sale of on
sale intoxicating liquor.
   C.   Management: All gambling operations conducted by the applicant must be
managed by bona fide members of the organization applying for the license.
(Ord. 44.1, 4-19-1988)
   D.   Profits: Every licensee shall be required to make cash lawful cash
expenditures of a minimum of ten percent (10%) of its gambling profits within
the trade area of the city of Baxter, Minnesota, as provided for under the
adopted rules of the gambling control board. The trade area of the city of
Baxter, Minnesota, is defined as including the entire corporate limits of both
the cities of Baxter and Brainerd, Minnesota. (Ord. 44.2A, 12-17-1998; amd.
2002 Code)
   E.   Premises: All charitable gambling operations conducted by the licensee
must be within premises owned by said licensee or upon premises leased by said
licensee. Any such lease shall be a written lease, a copy of which shall be
filed with the city, and shall provide for no greater monthly rent than the
state gambling rules allow, with no other payments being made to the liquor
establishment or its owners or agents, either directly or indirectly. (Ord.
44.2, 8-5-1997; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Monthly Report: Each licensee shall submit to the city a monthly report
for each site. This report shall consist at least of the front page, the tax
report page, and the schedule C of the report that is required to be filed with
the gambling control board. Such reports shall be filed with the city at the
same time that such reports are filed with the state. (Ord. 44.1, 4-19-1988;
amd. 2002 Code)
3-6-8: REVOCATION; SUSPENSION:
The city council may revoke or suspend any gambling license for violation of
any provision or condition of this chapter or any state law or rule
incorporated herein, subject to the requirements and conditions as contained in
state law and applicable rules of the gambling control board. (Ord. 44.1, 4-19-
1988; amd. 2002 Code)
3-6-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor; and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, plus the cost of prosecution in either case. (Ord. 44.1, 4-
19-1988; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 7
THEATERS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Fire Protection
3-7-2: Health Precautions
3-7-3: Good Order On Premises
3-7-4: Penalty
3-7-1: FIRE PROTECTION:
No person shall engage in the business of operating a theater for the showing
of motion pictures, plays, musicals, concerts, or other entertainments without
first having obtained a license hereunder. (Ord. 35, 7-3-1979)
3-7-2: HEALTH PRECAUTIONS:
Every theater and equipment therein shall comply with all of the applicable
requirements for protection of health contained in Minnesota statutes. (Ord.
35, 7-3-1979; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 2016-043, 12-20-2016)
3-7-3: GOOD ORDER ON PREMISES:
The owner or operator of any theater shall be responsible for the maintenance
of good order on his premises and shall provide a sufficient number of ushers
and attendants to eject persons who misconduct themselves by rude, boisterous
or offensive behavior, shouting, pushing, or use of obscene or insulting
language. Failure on the part of the owner or operator or his employees to
exercise all reasonable means of maintaining good order shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 35, 7-3-1979; amd. Ord. 2016-043, 12-20-2016)
3-7-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Such penalty may be imposed in addition to
suspension or revocation of a license. (Ord. 35, 7-3-1979; amd. Ord. 2016-043,
12-20-2016)
CHAPTER 8
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Invitation Required; Nuisance Declared
3-8-3: Sales Prohibited; Temporary Sales Permit
3-8-4: License Required
3-8-5: Application; Issuance
3-8-6: License Fees
3-8-7: Term Of License
3-8-8: License Not Transferable
3-8-9: License To Be Carried
3-8-10: Practices Prohibited
3-8-11: Exemptions
3-8-12: Revocation
3-8-13: Penalty
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms defined in this section have the
meanings ascribed to them:
PEDDLER: Any person with no fixed place of business who goes from house to
house, from place to place, or from street to street, carrying or transporting
goods, wares, or merchandise, and offering or exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and deliveries to purchasers.
SOLICITOR: Any person who goes from house to house, from place to place, or
from street to street soliciting or taking or attempting to take orders for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, including books, periodicals, magazines, or
personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery. Solicitor does
not include any person taking or attempting to take orders to be filled by
goods, wares, or merchandise delivered to the purchaser from other states.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person, firm or corporation who engages temporarily in
the business of selling and delivering goods, wares, or merchandise within the
city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies
any building, structure, vacant lot, motor vehicle, trailer, or railroad car.
(Ord. 9.1, 7-19-1983)
3-8-2: INVITATION REQUIRED; NUISANCE DECLARED:
The practice of going in and upon private residences or residence properties in
the city by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants, and transient
vendors of merchandise, not having been requested or invited to do so by the
owner or occupant of such private residence, for the purpose of soliciting
orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, or for the purpose of
disposing of or peddling the same, or for the purpose of soliciting orders for
the sale of services to be performed then or in the future, is hereby declared
to be a nuisance. (Ord. 9.1, 7-19-1983)
3-8-3: SALES PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY SALES PERMIT:
   A.   Sales From Vehicles On Public Streets: The practice of selling goods,
wares, and produce from vehicles parked on city streets or public rights of way
is hereby prohibited, it being in the public interest to avoid the traffic
hazards, parking congestion and health hazards that such practices create. This
prohibition shall extend to all temporary stalls, vehicle attachments or other
temporary structures erected on public property without the written prior
consent of the city council.
   B.   Temporary Sales Permit; Fees: Permits for such temporary sales
locations on public property may be obtained upon application to the city
clerk. Forms and fees for such permits shall be set from time to time by the
city council. (Ord. 9.1, 7-19-1983)
3-8-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall sell or offer for sale any
services, goods, wares, or merchandise by invitation within the city unless a
license therefor shall first be secured as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 9.1,
7-19-1983)
3-8-5: APPLICATION; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Form; Required Information: Application for such license shall be made
to the city clerk on a form supplied by the city. The application shall state:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant and of all persons associated
with him in his business;
      2.   The type of business for which the license is desired;
      3.   In case of transient merchants, the place where the business is to
be carried on;
      4.   The length of time for which the license is desired;
      5.   A general description of the thing or things to be sold;
      6.   The places of residence of the applicant for the five (5) years next
preceding the date of application.
   B.   Police Investigation: Every application shall bear the written report
and recommendation of the chief of police after an investigation of the moral
character of the applicant.
   C.   Council Consideration: The completed application shall be presented to
the council for its consideration and if granted by the council, a license
shall be issued by the city clerk upon payment of the required fee. (Ord. 9.1,
7-19-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
3-8-6: LICENSE FEES:
Fees for licenses shall be as set from time to time by the city council. (Ord.
9.1, 7-19-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
3-8-7: TERM OF LICENSE:
Each license shall be valid only for the period specified therein and no
license may extend beyond December 31 of the year in which it is granted. (Ord.
9.1, 7-19-1983)
3-8-8: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
All licenses shall be nontransferable. No refunds shall be made on unused
portions of licenses except by resolution of the council. Each peddler,
solicitor, or transient merchant shall secure a separate license. (Ord. 9.1, 7-
19-1983)
3-8-9: LICENSE TO BE CARRIED:
All licenses shall be carried by the licensee or conspicuously posted in his
place of business, and the license shall be exhibited to any officer or citizen
upon his request. (Ord. 9.1, 7-19-1983)
3-8-10: PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall call attention to his
business or to his merchandise by crying out, by blowing a horn, by ringing a
bell, or by any loud or unusual noise. (Ord. 9.1, 7-19-1983)
3-8-11: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter does not apply to any sale under court order, to any bona fide
auction sale, or to a sale at wholesale to a retail dealer. This chapter shall
likewise not apply to any charitable organizations as defined and regulated by
Minnesota statutes sections 309.50 to 309.61. (Ord. 9.1, 7-19-1983; amd. 2002
Code)
3-8-12: REVOCATION:
Any license may be revoked by the council for a violation of any provision of
this chapter if the licensee has been given a reasonable notice and an
opportunity to be heard. (Ord. 9.1, 7-19-1983)
3-8-13: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, plus the costs of prosecution. (Ord. 9.1, 7-19-1983; amd.
2002 Code)
CHAPTER 9
HOME OCCUPATIONS; GARAGE AND YARD SALES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Purpose
3-9-2: Definitions
3-9-3: Performance Standards
3-9-4: Inspections
3-9-5: Existing Home Occupations
3-9-6: Permitted Home Occupations
3-9-7: Prohibited Home Occupations
3-9-8: Garage And Yard Sale Restrictions
3-9-9: Relationship To Zoning Regulations
3-9-10: Violation; Penalty
3-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to permit only those home occupations and home
sales that are compatible with other permitted uses and with the residential
character of neighborhoods. (Ord. 72, 4-15-1997)
3-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
GARAGE OR YARD SALE: Any display for purposes of sale of personal property
conducted on residential premises by the occupant thereof.
HOME OCCUPATION: A gainful occupation engaged in by a person residing in the
dwelling in conformance with requirements set forth by the city.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display, logo, illustration or
device which is affixed to, painted or represented directly or indirectly upon
a building or other surface or piece of land, and which directs attention to an
object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or
business. For the purposes of this chapter, a "nameplate sign" is defined as a
sign giving the title of the home occupation. (Ord. 72, 4-15-1997; amd. Ord.
72.2, 2-17-1998)
3-9-3: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Home occupations authorized by this chapter shall conform to the following
standards:
   A.   Employees: No more than two (2) persons other than a member of the
immediate family occupying the dwelling shall be employed on the premises.
(Ord. 72, 4-15-1997)
   B.   Nameplate Wall Sign: Each home occupation may have one nameplate wall
sign attached to the home. The sign area shall not exceed three (3) square
feet. No additional advertising, temporary or other signs shall be allowed,
including devices giving customer information. No signs placed inside the
dwelling shall be visible to the public. The nameplate sign shall not be
illuminated or be double faced. Any existing sign for a home occupation that
was lawfully constructed and placed, but which now becomes nonconforming by
virtue of the provisions of this subsection may be continued for a period of
thirty six (36) months from and after the date of the publication hereof,
whereupon any such nonconforming sign usage shall cease. (Ord. 72.2, 2-17-1998)
   C.   Appearance Of Structure: In no way shall the appearance of the
structure be altered or the occupation within the residence be conducted in a
manner which would cause the premises to differ from its residential character,
either by the use of colors, materials, construction, lighting, advertising
signs or the emission of sounds, odors, noises, vibrations, heat, glare or
electrical disturbances.
   D.   Code Compliance Required: Home occupations which require entrance of
the general public shall comply to all applicable regulations of the uniform
building and fire codes of the state adopted by the city.
   E.   Area Of Home Used: Home occupations shall be an accessory use of the
principal structure and shall not occupy more than two (2) rooms within the
building.
   F.   Traffic; Parking: The use shall not create substantial traffic. More
than ten (10) vehicles coming to the dwelling unit for service or products
during any one day shall be considered substantial additional traffic. Any need
for parking shall be met off the street and other than in a required front
yard.
   G.   Sewer And Water Usage: No home occupation shall cause an increase in
sewer or water usage so that the combined total use for dwelling and home
occupation purposes exceeds the normal range for residences in the city.
   H.   Storage; Display: There shall be no storage or display of any kind
connected with the home occupation visible from the outside of the dwelling
unit.
   I.   Fire Rating; Fire District: Any construction, alteration or electrical
or mechanical equipment, or chemicals or materials, shall not change the fire
rating of the structure or the fire district in which the structure is located.
   J.   Hours Of Operation: The hours of operation of a home occupation open to
the public may be from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   K.   Multiple Dwelling Units: Home occupations shall not be permitted in any
building containing three (3) or more dwelling units. (Ord. 72, 4-15-1997)
3-9-4: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Zoning Administrator Authorized: The zoning administrator or a
designated representative is hereby authorized to make inspections from time to
time of any dwelling at which a home occupation, garage sale or yard sale is
being conducted.
   B.   Days And Hours Of Inspection: Such inspections may be made between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. on
Monday through Friday, except for days which are generally recognized as
holidays.
   C.   Notice Of Inspection: If time permits, the zoning administrator or
designated representative may, but shall not be required to, give an occupant
of the dwelling advance notice of the inspection.
   D.   Notice To Correct: Any person who is found to be operating a use in
violation of this chapter shall be ordered by notice to correct the violation.
   E.   Refusal To Permit Access: Any person who shall, without good cause,
refuse to permit access to a dwelling by the zoning administrator or designated
representative for the purpose of making the inspection shall receive a notice
to terminate the use.
   F.   Notice To Terminate: The notice may list specific conditions that need
to be complied with in order to bring the use into conformity with the
requirements of this chapter. The zoning administrator or designated
representative shall notify the owner or occupant of the dwelling. The notice
shall be served in person or by certified mail. The home occupation, garage
sale or yard sale shall be terminated and abated within twenty four (24) hours
unless the zoning administrator or designated representative provides
additional time to comply with the order.
   G.   Failure To Comply: If the notice is not complied with in the time
specified, the zoning administrator or designated representative shall report
such fact to the city administrator, who shall report the same to the city
council. Thereafter, the city council may, after notice to the owner or
occupant and an opportunity to be heard, provide for the termination and
abatement of the home occupation, garage sale or yard sale.
   H.   Abatement By City: If the city must take action to physically abate
nuisances caused by a home occupation, garage sale or yard sale, it may do so
in accordance with title 4, chapter 1 of this code. (Ord. 72, 4-15-1997)
3-9-5: EXISTING HOME OCCUPATIONS:
Home occupations already existing at the time of adoption of this chapter that
are not permitted "home occupations" as defined by this chapter but meet the
performance standards of this chapter, and are not a "nuisance" as defined in
title 4, chapter 1 of this code, may continue as nonconforming home
occupations. These nonconforming home occupations shall not be expanded or
altered, except to bring them into conformity with this chapter. If such home
occupations cease operation for a period of twelve (12) months, it shall not be
reestablished. (Ord. 72, 4-15-1997)
3-9-6: PERMITTED HOME OCCUPATIONS:
The following uses are permitted as home occupations, but are still subject to
the performance standards of this chapter:
Artists, sculptors, authors or composers.
Barber or beauty shops.
Dressmakers, seamstresses and tailors.
Home crafts, such as model making, rug weaving, wood crafts and lapidaries
work.
Limited carpentry work.
Limited photo developing or processing.
Limited upholstering.
Music, art or dancing teachers, limited to not more than five (5) students at
any one time.
Office facility of lawyers, architects, engineers, realtors, insurance agents,
brokers, salesmen, contractors and members of similar professions.
Office facility of ministers, rabbis, priests or members of religious orders.
Office facility of physicians, dentists, or other licensed medical
practitioners. (Ord. 72, 4-15-1997)
3-9-7: PROHIBITED HOME OCCUPATIONS:
The following home occupations shall not be permitted:
Animal hospital or pet shop.
Auto repair, major or minor.
Clinics or hospital.
Kennels or stables.
Manufacturing.
Mortuaries.
Office facility for retail or wholesale businesses, and industrial uses.
   Painting or restoration of vehicles, trailers or boats.
   Private clubs.
   Renting of trailers.
Repair shops or service establishments except the repair of nonmotorized
bicycles, electrical appliances, typewriters, cameras or other similar small
items.
   Restaurants.
Retail sales; however, such retail sales as are directly related to a permitted
home occupation under section
3-9-6 of this chapter are permitted.
Warehousing or on site storage of goods for redistribution or materials used by
contractors. (Ord. 72, 4-15-1997; amd. Ord. 72.1, 11-4-1997)
3-9-8: GARAGE AND YARD SALE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Area Restricted: Any garage or yard sale shall be conducted solely
within the boundaries of the property owned or occupied by the occupant who is
conducting the sale.
   B.   Number Limited Per Year: There shall be no more than three (3) garage
or yard sales conducted at any one residence during any period of twelve (12)
calendar months.
   C.   Length Of Sale: No garage or yard sale shall be conducted during any
part of more than three (3) consecutive days.
   D.   Hours Of Sale: No garage or yard sale may be conducted before seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. or after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   E.   Parking: All parking of vehicles shall be in compliance with city
ordinances and shall furthermore not impede or interfere with normal traffic.
(Ord. 72, 4-15-1997)
3-9-9: RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING REGULATIONS:
In the event of any conflict between this chapter and title 10 of this code,
the provisions of this chapter shall govern. (Ord. 72, 4-15-1997)
3-9-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty: Violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor; and upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that the violation is permitted
to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 72, 4-15-1997; amd. 2002
Code)
   B.   Additional Remedies: In the event of a violation or threatened
violation of this chapter, the council, or any member thereof, in addition to
other remedies, may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such violations through the city attorney.
   C.   Mandamus Proceedings: Any taxpayer may institute mandamus proceedings
in district court to compel specific performance by the proper official of any
duty required by this chapter. (Ord. 72, 4-15-1997)
CHAPTER 10
SECONDHAND AND SALVAGE AUTOMOBILE DEALERS
(Rep. by Ord. 2012-1, 4-3-2012)
CHAPTER 11
MOBILE HOME, TRAILER HOUSE AND TRAVEL TRAILER DEALERS
(Rep. by Ord. 2012-1, 4-3-2012)
CHAPTER 12
TAXICABS; FOR HIRE VEHICLES
SECTION:
3-12-1: License Required
3-12-2: Application
3-12-3: License Fee
3-12-4: Insurance Requirements
3-12-5: Certificate Of Public Convenience Necessary
3-12-6: Rules And Regulations
3-12-7: Issuance Of License
3-12-8: Driver's Permit
3-12-9: Name Of Car
3-12-10: Substitution Of Vehicles
3-12-11: Revocation
3-12-12: Penalty
3-12-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall carry or transport any person for hire by means of any
automobile or taxicab within the limits of the city without first obtaining a
license from the city so to do. (Ord. 33, 7-3-1979)
3-12-2: APPLICATION:
Any person wishing to obtain a license under and by virtue of this chapter
shall fill out and file with the city clerk an application for such license on
a form provided by the city clerk for that purpose, which application shall
state the name and address of the licensee, the kind, model, number of engine
and serial number and year of manufacture of the automobile or taxicab to be
used in the business, and the period for which application is made, which
application shall be forthwith presented to the city council and, if approved
by them, then license shall be issued by the city clerk therefor. (Ord. 33, 7-
3-1979)
3-12-3: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for each applicant shall be as set from time to time by the
city council. Each license shall expire on June 30 after same is issued. (Ord.
33, 7-3-1979; amd. 2002 Code)
3-12-4: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
No license shall be issued for and no taxicab, automobile, or similar vehicle
used for hire, shall be operated or used in and upon the streets of the city
for the purpose of carrying passengers for hire, and it shall be unlawful to so
operate such taxicab, unless there shall have been filed with the city clerk a
liability contract of insurance, issued to the owner of such taxicab, which
shall be on the form of the standard automobile liability insurance policy in
customary use, to be approved by the city council and issued by an insurance
company licensed to do business in the state, such policy to secure payment, in
accordance with the provisions thereof, to any person, except injuries to such
persons and for any damage to property, except property owned by, rented to,
leased to, in charge of, or transported by the owner, other than baggage of
passengers, caused by the operation of such taxicab, for the following amounts:
(Ord. 33, 7-3-1979)
   A.   Personal Injury: As respects injuries to person, to the extent of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for personal injury or death of any one
person and subject to that limit for each person. Three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00) for each accident; and
   B.   Property Damage: As respects damage to property, fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) for each accident. (Ord. 33, 7-3-1979; amd. 2002 Code)
3-12-5: CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE NECESSARY:
No license to operate a vehicle for hire shall be issued unless and until the
city council shall, by resolution, declare that public convenience requires the
licensing of such vehicle for which application is made and issues a
certificate of public convenience therefor.
   A.   Authority To Issue Certificate: The council shall have the power and it
shall be their duty to issue such certificate of convenience, or to refuse to
issue the same, according to their judgment the public convenience of the city
and its inhabitants may require. Upon receipt of an application and in
determining whether such convenience requires the licensing of a vehicle, the
council shall take into consideration:
      1.   Whether the demands of public convenience require such proposed or
additional transportation service.
      2.   The financial responsibility of the applicant and likelihood of the
proposed service being permanent, responsible and satisfactory.
      3.   The number, kind, type and condition of equipment.
      4.   The number of vehicles for hire now operating in the city and the
increased traffic condition and demand for increased parking spaces upon the
streets in the city by the public, both vehicular and pedestrian, will be
preserved.
      5.   Any such further investigation or relevant factors as the city deems
advisable and necessary.
   B.   Decision Of Council Final: The findings and decisions of the city
council upon all questions of public convenience shall be final and conclusive.
No license shall be issued to operate less than five (5) days a week, nor less
than six (6) hours daily. The city council may at any time after hearing and
for good cause suspend, alter, amend or revoke any such license. (2002 Code)
3-12-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations shall be observed by all persons operating
taxicabs or automobiles for hire, and it shall be unlawful to operate such
taxicabs or vehicles for hire in violation of any of the following rules:
   A.   Identification: Any person operating a taxicab must have in plain view
within the vehicle, picture identification including his/her name, permit
number, description, etc.
   B.   Stop At Railroad Crossings: All taxicabs and vehicles for hire shall,
while carrying passengers, come to a full stop within thirty feet (30') of the
nearest rail before crossing any railroad tracks where no gates are maintained.
   C.   Vehicles Left Standing: No vehicle for hire or taxicab shall remain
standing upon any portion of any public street except for loading and unloading
passengers, and then not for a period of more than five (5) minutes, except at
such stand as may be described in the application for license and designated by
the city council. The provisions of the subsection shall not apply to any
vehicle for hire or taxicab while the same is engaged by or being paid for by a
passenger or while a licensed operator is seated at the vehicle's seat in the
taxicab or vehicle for hire awaiting engagement by a passenger.
   D.   Exclusive Right To Full Use: No operator or owner of any vehicle for
hire or taxicab shall solicit, take or carry any passengers after such vehicle
shall have been engaged or while in use for another passenger, without the
consent of the passenger first engaging the same having been first obtained. A
passenger engaging such vehicle shall have the exclusive right to full and free
use of the passenger compartment and the whole thereof if he/she desires the
same. The operator of any taxicab, shall carry any passenger engaging the same
safely and expeditiously to his/her destination by the most direct and
accessible route.
   E.   Inspection Required: All vehicles affected by this chapter shall be
maintained in good working order and must be inspected by the chief of police
or his/her deputy each month.
   F.   Age Requirement: No taxicab or vehicle for hire shall be operated by
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years or by any person who does not
have a valid driver's license as prescribed by the state motor vehicle code or
by any person under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs or by any
person who is for any reason whatsoever unable or incompetent to safely handle
such vehicle.
   G.   Unfair Competition Or Fraud: No owner or operator of any vehicle for
hire or taxicab shall indulge in unfair competition with competitors or shall
commit any fraud upon the public or upon persons engaged in the same business,
and the city council shall be the sole judge as to what constitutes fraud or
unfair competition pursuant to the provisions of this subsection. Any complaint
or violation of the provisions of this subsection shall be heard upon written
complaint specifying the act complained of and sworn to by the complainant
before a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths.
   H.   Schedule Of Rates: A taxicab shall have posted in the passenger's
compartment a schedule of rates for the hire of such vehicle.
   I.   Charge In Excess Of Rates: No charge shall be made by any operator or
owner of a taxicab or vehicle for hire in excess of the rates posted in the
passenger compartment of such vehicle and approved by the city council.
   J.   Condition Of Vehicle: No vehicle for hire shall be operated unless the
passenger compartment shall be kept clean and in a sanitary condition.
   K.   Vehicle And Driver Requirements:
      1.   Every automobile for hire, dial-a-ride vehicle, jitney or taxicab
shall be maintained in a safe, neat, clean and sanitary condition.
      2.   Every automobile for hire, dial-a-ride vehicle, jitney or taxicab
shall be equipped with an air conditioning unit. These air conditioning units
are to be in good working condition at all times.
      3.   The driver of all such vehicles shall be courteous and clean of body
and wearing apparel.
      4.   Smoking by drivers or passengers in any such vehicle while same is
available for, or actually hired for use, shall be prohibited.
      5.   All vehicle for hire operations shall have handicapped accessible
vehicles as required by federal law as it now exists or may hereafter be
amended. (2002 Code)
3-12-7: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The city clerk upon receipt and filing of said application approved by the city
council shall issue to applicant a license to operate such vehicle for the
purpose of carrying passengers for hire. (2002 Code)
3-12-8: DRIVER'S PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any taxicab or vehicle for hire
without first obtaining a permit in writing from the police chief. Such permit
shall entitle the driver to work only for the owner whose name appears on the
permit. A new permit shall be required for each subsequent employment.
   A.   Application: The applicants for such permit shall file an application
therefor with the police chief upon blanks to be furnished by the city.
   B.   Issuance; Refusal: Permits shall be in the form of a card which shall
bear the signature, photograph and fingerprints of the applicant. Such card
shall be issued in duplicate and one copy shall be filed with the police
department and the other card shall be conspicuously displayed in the vehicle
operated by the driver. No permit shall be issued to anyone for the following
reasons:
      1.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years;
      2.   Any person not a citizen of the United States or who has not
declared his/her intentions to become such;
      3.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony or a crime involving
moral turpitude;
      4.   Any person who has been convicted of reckless driving or driving
while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics; or
      5.   Any person not possessing a valid driver's license as required by
the motor vehicle code of the state.
   C.   Examination: Each applicant shall be examined by a person designated by
the police chief as to the applicant's knowledge of the provisions of this
chapter, the vehicle code of the state and the geography of the city, and if
the result of the examination is not satisfactory, he/she shall be denied a
permit.
   D.   Verification: The police chief may revoke a permit issued or may refuse
to renew a permit if the driver or applicant has since the granting of a
permit:
      1.   Been convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude;
      2.   Been convicted of reckless driving or driving while under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics;
      3.   Had his/her state operator's license revoked or suspended;
      4.   Had two (2) or more convictions of speeding within any twelve (12)
month period; or
      5.   Violated any provisions of this chapter. (2002 Code)
3-12-9: NAME OF CAR:
Every vehicle for hire for the operation for which a permit has been issued
shall have the name under which the owner operates plainly in letters at least
two inches (2") in height in the center of the main panel of their rear doors.
(2002 Code)
3-12-10: SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES:
The holder of any license may substitute one car for another but if such
substitution continues for more than three (3) days a description of such car
so substituted shall be filed with the chief of police. (2002 Code)
3-12-11: REVOCATION:
Any license granted under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked at any
time by the city council upon motion to that end, without return of license
fee. (Ord. 33, 7-3-1979)
3-12-12: PENALTY:
Each and every person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Such penalty may be imposed in addition to suspension
or revocation of license. (Ord. 33, 7-3-1979)
CHAPTER 13
GASOLINE FILLING STATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 2012-1, 4-3-2012)
CHAPTER 14
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
3-14-1: Regulations
3-14-2: License; Bond; Insurance
3-14-3: Registration Fee
3-14-4: Liability
3-14-5: Penalty
3-14-1: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Registration Required: It is deemed in the interest of the public and
the residents of the city that any person who engages in the business of
"building construction or related work", as defined in subsection B of this
section, shall first secure a registration/license therefor as provided herein.
   B.   Professions: Registrations shall be obtained by every person engaged in
the following business or work in accordance with the applicable ordinances of
the city and state laws:
      1.   General contractors, including those involved in erection,
alteration or repair of buildings;
      2.   Masonry, cement work, cement block work, block laying or brickwork;
      3.   Heating and ventilating;
      4.   Roofing;
      5.   Plastering, stucco work and Sheetrock taping;
      6.   Excavations, including excavations for footings, basements and
grading of lots;
      7.   Moving and wrecking of buildings;
      8.   Plumbing installers, state license required, see subsection G of
this section;
      9.   Septic system installers, state license required, see subsection G
of this section;
      10.   Signs, including the erection and hanging of the same;
      11.   All persons hired to complete any type of construction oriented
work.
   C.   Employees; Property Owner: Nothing herein shall be construed as
preventing any such qualified licensee from performing the work by an employee
under his supervision and control, or a property owner from performing his own
work providing all provisions of the international building code are adhered
to. (Ord. 2003-7, 10-7-2003)
   D.   General Contractors And Subcontractors: A general contractor who has
complied with section
3-14-2 of this chapter shall include the right to perform all of the work
included in the general contract. Such license shall include any or all of the
persons performing the work which is classified and listed in this code
providing that each person performing such work is in the regular employ of the
general contractor or is a subcontractor of the general contractor and, in
either case, qualified under state law and the provisions of the building code
to perform such work. In these cases, the general contractor shall be
responsible for all of the work so performed. (Ord. 2006-9, 3-21-2006)
   E.   Public Service Corporations: Public service corporations shall not be
required to obtain registration for work upon or in connection with their own
property except as may be provided by other ordinances or state laws.
   F.   Manufacturers: Manufacturers shall not be required to obtain
registrations for work incorporated within equipment as a part of manufacturing
except as may be provided by other ordinances or state laws.
   G.   State License Required: In addition, before any person performs any
roofing, plumbing, electrical, septic installing and general contracting work
within the city, he must first be licensed to perform such work by the state.
   H.   Mechanical Contractors: Mechanical contractors are required to post a
mechanical surety bond in the amount of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) and must file with the Minnesota department of administration,
building codes and standards division annually. A copy of this must also be
submitted to the city along with the registration application each year. (Ord.
2003-7, 10-7-2003)
3-14-2: LICENSE; BOND; INSURANCE:
Any person, firm or corporation who desires to engage in the business of
building construction or related work, as defined in subsection 3-14-1D of this
chapter, shall first present a valid contractor license or certificate of
exemption both pursuant to Minnesota statutes sections 326.83-326.991 to the
city administrator. If said person presents a valid state license he or she is
exempt from this section. If said person presents a certificate of exemption
from said applicable state laws, he or she must apply for a license with the
city administrator. Said license will be granted upon proof of the applicant's
qualifications therefor and upon filing a bond in the amount of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) conditioned upon compliance with the provisions of said
city ordinances and the filing of certificates evidencing the holding of public
liability insurance in the limits of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
per person, three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per accident or bodily
injury and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for property damages and
certificates of workers' compensation insurance as required by law.
Note that providing a state license pursuant to section 326 only applies to
residential construction. Commercial construction shall require a local license
pursuant to this section. (Ord. 2006-9, 3-21-2006)
3-14-3: REGISTRATION FEE:
The registration fee shall be as set from time to time by the city council.
Each registration shall expire on May 1 after the same is issued and shall not
be prorated. (Ord. 2003-7, 10-7-2003)
3-14-4: LIABILITY:
This chapter shall not be construed to affect the responsibility or liability
for any party owning, operating or installing the above described work for
damages to persons or property caused by any defect therein nor shall the city
be held as assuming any such liability by reason of the registering of persons
engaged in such work. (Ord. 2003-7, 10-7-2003)
3-14-5: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2003-7, 10-7-2003)
CHAPTER 15
FOOD HANDLERS
(Rep. by Ord. 2012-1, 4-3-2012)
CHAPTER 16
GARBAGE, FOG AND SEWAGE COLLECTORS
SECTION:
3-16-1: Definition; License Required
3-16-2: Application For License
3-16-3: License Fees
3-16-4: Insurance
3-16-5: Vehicles
3-16-6: Recycling
3-16-7: Refuse Collection Schedule
3-16-8: Reporting
3-16-9: License Revocation
3-16-10: Penalty
3-16-1: DEFINITION; LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Definition:
    FATS, OILS AND GREASE (FOG): Any substance, such as vegetable, animal, or
other product that is used in, or is a byproduct of, the cooking or food
preparation process and that turns or may turn viscous or solidifies with a
change in temperature or other condition or organic polar compounds derived
from animal or plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride
molecules. These substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test
procedures established in 40 CFR 136, as may be amended from time to time.
   B.   License Required: No person shall collect for removal off site any
refuse, FOG or sewage within the city without a license from the city. No
person shall permit refuse, FOG or sewage to be removed from their premises by
an unlicensed collector.
A person shall be exempt from this requirement if they are licensed by the
state. To maintain this exemption, however, said person must present written
proof of a valid state license each year as city license fees are due. In
addition, persons with state licenses must still comply with sections
3-16-7 through
3-16-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-7, 3-5-2008)
3-16-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license shall make application to the city clerk on a
form prescribed by the clerk. The application shall set forth:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant;
   B.   A description of each piece of equipment proposed to be used in the
collection;
   C.   The proposed charges to be made of those who use the service;
   D.   A description of the kind of service proposed to be rendered;
   E.   The place to which the refuse is to be hauled; and
   F.   The manner in which the refuse is to be disposed of. (Ord. 36, 7-3-
1979)
3-16-3: LICENSE FEES:
Licenses shall be issued for a period of one year expiring on June 30 of any
given year. The license fee shall be set from time to time by the city council.
(Ord. 36.1, 6-18-1991; amd. 2002 Code)
3-16-4: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required: No license shall be issued until the applicant files with the
clerk a current policy of public liability insurance covering all vehicles to
be used by the applicant in the licensed business.
   B.   Policy Limits: The limits of coverage of such insurance shall be:
      1.   Personal Injury: Each person injured, at least fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00); each accident, at least three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00); and
      2.   Property Damage: Property damage, at least fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00).
   C.   Notice Of Termination: Each policy shall expressly provide that the
city be given ten (10) days' notice of any termination or cancellation of the
coverage. Each contract shall terminate upon termination of the required
insurance coverage. (Ord. 36, 7-3-1979)
3-16-5: VEHICLES:
Each refuse collection vehicle shall be marked on the outside so as to identify
the licensee. Every vehicle used for hauling garbage, FOG and sewage shall be
covered, leakproof, durable, and of easily cleanable construction. Every
vehicle used for hauling refuse shall be sufficiently airtight and so used as
to prevent unreasonable quantities of dust, paper, or other collected materials
to escape. Every vehicle shall be kept clean to prevent nuisances, pollution,
or insect breeding, and shall be maintained in good repair. (Ord. 36, 7-3-1979;
amd. Ord. 2008-7, 3-5-2008)
3-16-6: RECYCLING:
All collectors shall offer collection of recyclables to all residential
customers. Recyclables include paper, glass, aluminum cans, metal cans and
other materials defined by agreement between the collector and city. Collection
of recyclables shall be made twice a month. The collector shall provide
containers approved by the city for each residential account. The collector
shall be responsible for picking up and disposing of recyclable materials at an
approved recycling center. (Ord. 36.2, 8-19-1997)
3-16-7: REFUSE COLLECTION SCHEDULE:
The licensee shall collect refuse within the city in accordance with this
chapter. No refuse collection shall take place before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
or after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. of any day. (Ord. 36, 7-3-1979; amd. 2002
Code)
3-16-8: REPORTING:
FOG and sewage collectors shall, within thirty (30) days of collection, file
with the city public works director a report indicating what FOG or sewage was
removed from a particular business or residence. The city shall have on file
appropriate forms for such reporting. (Ord. 2008-7, 3-5-2008)
3-16-9: LICENSE REVOCATION:
The council may revoke any license under this chapter after hearing, either for
a violation of the chapter or for the good of the public health or morals.
(Ord. 2008-7, 3-5-2008)
3-16-10: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision or part of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, for each offense be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2008-7, 3-5-2008)
CHAPTER 17
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
3-17-1: Purpose
3-17-2: Definitions And Interpretations
3-17-3: License
3-17-4: Prohibited Sales
3-17-5: Responsibility
3-17-6: Inspections
3-17-7: Judicial Review
3-17-1: PURPOSE:
Due to recent state law changes, some fireworks may now be legally sold. Since
fireworks are inherently dangerous and cannot be legally sold to minors, the
city believes that it is in the best interest of its citizens and the general
public that the city adopt an ordinance providing for the regulation of the
sale of fireworks. (Ord. 79, 6-17-2002)
3-17-2: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall include
the plural and the plural shall include the singular. The term "shall" means
mandatory and the term "may" means permissive. The following terms shall have
the definitions given to them:
FIREWORKS: Any fireworks that cannot be sold under state law pursuant to
Minnesota statutes sections 624.20 through 624.25 are not considered fireworks
for the purposes of this chapter since they cannot be sold, possessed or used
in the city in any manner. For the purposes of this chapter, fireworks shall
mean those types of fireworks that are now legal to sell, possess and use under
state law, which are: wire or wood sparklers of not more than one hundred grams
(100 g) of mixture per item, other sparkling items which are nonexplosive and
nonaerial and contain seventy five grams (75 g) or less of chemical mixture per
tube or a total of two hundred grams (200 g) or less for multiple tubes, snakes
and glowworms, smoke devices, or trick noisemakers which include paper
streamers, party poppers, string poppers, snappers, and drop pops, each
consisting of not more than twenty five hundredths grains of explosive mixture.
MINOR: Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of eighteen (18)
years.
SALE: Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other consideration.
(Ord. 79, 6-17-2002)
3-17-3: LICENSE:
No person or retail establishment shall sell or offer to sell any fireworks
without first having obtained a license to do so from the city.
   A.   A license application shall be on a form prepared by the city, shall
only reference one proposed location for fireworks sales and shall include:
      1.   The name and address of the licensee.
      2.   The proposed location where fireworks are to be sold.
      3.   The name and address of the owner of the premises in which the
fireworks will be sold and the legal relationship between the owner and
applicant.
      4.   A sketch of the sales location showing where the fireworks shall be
displayed, the proposed amount of fireworks on the premises at any one time and
all relevant information regarding fire safety on the premises.
   B.   A license application may be denied if it presents a possible fire or
safety hazard as determined by city staff, will result in violations of this
chapter or state law, or the application is incomplete or inaccurate.
   C.   Upon receipt of a denial to license, the proposed licensee shall have
the right to a hearing as set forth in section
3-17-5 of this chapter.
   D.   The term of the license shall be one year and the license fee shall be
one hundred dollars ($100.00), or as updated by subsequent city resolutions. A
license fee shall be due upon any renewal. A license renewal may be granted
without application unless so required by city staff. Any updated application
must accurately depict the then existing conditions of the premises and all
relevant fireworks sales information. (Ord. 79, 6-17-2002)
3-17-4: PROHIBITED SALES:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to sell
fireworks:
   A.   To any minor. It is the responsibility of the licensee to check photo
identification.
   B.   By any other means, or to any other person, prohibited by federal,
state, or other local law, ordinance provision, or other regulation.
   C.   In any zoning district other than neighborhood commercial or regional
commercial unless the proposed licensee operates a retail business that either
predates the city zoning ordinance or has a conditional use permit to conduct
retail sales.
   D.   Within three hundred feet (300') of a school, church or residential
premises.
   E.   Without a valid city license. (Ord. 79, 6-17-2002)
3-17-5: RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Employee Actions: All licensees shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of fireworks on the licensed premises,
and for purposes of this chapter the sale of such an item by an employee shall
be considered a sale by the license holder.
   B.   Violations And Penalties: For purposes of determining the number of
occurrences of violations, the council shall consider a violation as a second
occurrence if it occurred within eighteen (18) months of the first violation;
and shall consider a violation as a third occurrence if it occurred within
thirty (30) months of the second violation; and shall consider a violation a
fourth occurrence if it occurred within thirty (30) months of the third
violation. If there is a change of ownership (meaning at least 50 percent of
the ownership is transferred to an unrelated party) of the licensed
establishment, previous violation will not apply.
      1.   First violation: The licensee shall pay a civil fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
      2.   Second violation: The licensee shall pay a civil fine of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      3.   Third violation: The licensee shall pay a civil fine of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00), have its license suspended for five (5) days as determined
by the chief of police.
      4.   Fourth violation: The licensee's license shall be revoked.
All administrative fees imposed by this chapter are deemed payable within sixty
(60) days of the date of citation or no later than thirty (30) days after the
date of any written decision determining that a violation has occurred for all
appeals. Failure to pay any administrative fee imposed within the time limits
set herein will result in a license suspension until the date of payment.
   C.   Citation Process And Right To A Hearing: Upon discovery of a violation
of this chapter or pursuant to a compliance check, the licensee shall be issued
a citation by city police. Each violation, and every day in which a violation
occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense. All fees imposed by
this chapter will be payable to the city administrator of the city of Baxter.
No administrative fee may be imposed until the licensee has received written
notice of the violation by personal service or by certified mail sent to the
location of the alleged violation and the cited parties have been afforded an
opportunity for a hearing. Any cited party that requests a hearing in writing
within twenty (20) days of the date of mailing of the written notice of
violation will be afforded an opportunity for a hearing before a person
authorized by the licensing authority to conduct the hearing. A decision that a
violation has occurred must be in writing and will be completed within ten (10)
days of the hearing.
   D.   Right To Obtain A Transcript: If a hearing is requested, the hearing
will not be recorded and will only be transcribed if all financial arrangements
are made in advance with a certified court reporter by the person requesting
the hearing. Furthermore, any person requesting that the hearing be transcribed
agrees to provide the city with a copy of the transcript at no cost to the
city. (Ord. 79, 6-17-2002)
3-17-6: INSPECTIONS:
All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by city police or other
authorized city officials during regular business hours. From time to time, the
city may engage underage youth to enter the licensed premises to attempt to
purchase fireworks. No minor used in compliance checks shall attempt to use a
false identification or theatrical makeup which misrepresents their age. All
minors lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about
their age truthfully when asked by the licensee and shall produce any
identification which he or she is asked to produce. In all instances, the
minors shall be accompanied by city police or authorized city officials to the
location of the compliance check. (Ord. 79, 6-17-2002)
3-17-7: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person who maintains they are aggrieved by a decision pursuant to this
chapter may have the decision reviewed in the district court consistent with
Minnesota statutes, section 462.361. (Ord. 79, 6-17-2002)
CHAPTER 18
PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND GOODS DEALERS
SECTION:
3-18-1: Definitions
3-18-2: Licensing Requirements
3-18-3: Application Procedure
3-18-4: Ineligibility For License
3-18-5: Records and Reports
3-18-6: Inspection of Premises
3-18-7: Business Transactions; Requirements and Restrictions
3-18-8: Denial, Suspension or Revocation of License
3-18-9: Violation; Penalty
3-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
AUTOMATED    A computer database operated by a third party vendor approved by the Chief of
PAWN SYSTEM  Police, accessible from a remote location, designated to input and retrieve data
OR APS:      on pawnbroker transactions, by those municipalities that subscribe to the
             system.
CONSIGNMENT: A written agreement between a dealer and a seller that authorizes the dealer to
             take possession of secondhand property owned by the seller.
             Any loan on the security of pledged goods or any purchase of pledged goods on
PAWN         the condition that the pledged goods are left with the pawnbroker and may be
TRANSACTION: redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of
             time.
             Any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the
             security of pledged goods left in pawn, or in the business of purchasing
             tangible personal property to be left in pawn on the condition that it may be
             redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of
             time. The following are exempt from the definition of "pawnbroker": Any bank
             regulated by the state of Minnesota, the comptroller of the currency of the
PAWNBROKER:  United States, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the board of governors
             of the federal reserve system, or any other federal or state authority and their
             affiliates; any bank or savings association whose deposits or accounts are
             eligible for insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any
             successor to it and all affiliates of those banks and savings associations; any
             state or federally chartered credit union; and any industrial loan and thrift
             company or regulated lender subject to licensing and regulation by the
             department of commerce.
PAWNSHOP:    The location at which or premises in which a pawnbroker regularly conducts
             business.
PERSON:      An individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, joint
             venture, trust, association, or any other legal entity, however organized.
             Tangible personal property other than choses in action, securities, bank drafts,
PLEDGED      or printed evidence of indebtedness that are purchased by, deposited with, or
GOODS:       otherwise actually delivered into the possession of a pawnbroker in connection
             with a pawn transaction.
             Every transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in which merchandise is received
             through a pawn, purchase, consignment or trade, or in which a pawn is renewed,
             extended or redeemed, or for which a unique transaction number or identifier is
             generated by their point of sale software, or an item is confiscated by law
             enforcement, is reportable, except:
REPORTABLE   A.   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used merchandise from a
TRANSACTION: merchant, manufacturer, or wholesaler having an established permanent place of
             business, and the retail sale of said merchandise, provided the pawnbroker must
             maintain a record of such purchase or consignment which describes each item, and
             must mark each item in a manner which relates it to that transaction record.
             B.   Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise originally received by pawn or
             purchase, and for which all applicable hold and/or redemption periods have
             expired.
             Any person whose regular business includes selling or receiving tangible
SECONDHAND   personal property which has been previously used, rented, owned or leased,
GOODS        specifically including, but not limited to, video games, compact discs, sports
DEALER:      memorabilia, collectible magazines, and coin collections, but excluding motor
             vehicles, furniture, clothing, and sporting equipment. (Ord. 2021-004, 4-20-
             2021)
 
3-18-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required; Fee: No person shall engage in the business of
pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer within the City unless such person is
licensed under this chapter. Any pawn transaction made without benefit of a
license is void. The annual fee for such license shall be established by
council ordinance from time to time.
   B.   Payment, Proration And Refund Of Fees:
      1.   Payment of Fee; Proration: The license fee shall be paid in full
before issuance. The fee for a pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer license
granted after the commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a
monthly basis. For the purposes of establishing the prorated license fee, the
month of the application is excluded.
      2.   Refunds: Upon withdrawal of the application for a license before
approval of the issuance by the council, the license fee shall be refunded.
   C.   Nontransferability Of License; Information Regarding Buildings: A
license under this section shall authorize the licensee to carry on its
business only at the permanent place of business designated in the license. No
license may be transferred to a different location or to a different person.
Any and all property or buildings used for storage of items related to the
pawnshop or secondhand goods dealership must be identified in the application
for a license.
   D.   Pawnbrokers As Secondhand Goods Dealers; Secondhand Goods Dealers As
Pawnbrokers: A pawnbroker may not operate or engage in the business of
secondhand goods dealer without having obtained a secondhand goods dealer
license in addition to a pawnbroker's license. A secondhand goods dealer may
not conduct, operate, or engage in the business of pawnbroker without having
first obtained a pawnbroker license in addition to a secondhand goods dealer
license.
   E.   Exemptions From License Requirements: The aforementioned license
requirements do not apply to or include the following:
      1.   The sale of secondhand goods at events commonly known as "garage
sales", "yard sales" or "estate sales", where all of the following conditions
are present:
         a.   The sale is held on property occupied as a dwelling by the
seller, or owned, rented or leased by a charitable or political organization;
         b.   The sale does not exceed a period of seventy two (72) consecutive
hours;
         c.   Not more than two (2) sales are held either by the same person or
on the same property in any twelve (12) month period; and
         d.   None of the items offered for sale have been purchased for resale
or received on consignment for purpose of resale.
      2.   Any person engaged in the business of dealing in secondhand motor
vehicles or secondhand parts for motor vehicles.
      3.   The sale of goods at an auction held by a licensed auctioneer.
      4.   The business of buying or selling only those secondhand goods taken
as part or full payment for new goods, and where such business is incidental to
and not the primary business of a person.
      5.   A bulk sale of property from a merchant, manufacturer, or wholesaler
having an established place of business or of goods sold at open sale from
bankrupt stock.
      6.   Goods sold at a public market.
      7.   Goods sold at an exhibition.
      8.   The sale of furniture, clothing and related accessories.
   F.   Multiple Secondhand Goods Dealer Licenses:
      1.   The owner of a business at which two (2) or more secondhand goods
dealers are engaged in business by maintaining separate sales space and
identifying themselves to the public as individual dealers may obtain a
multiple secondhand goods dealer license for that location. A multiple license
may not be issued unless the following requirements are met:
         a.   The businesses must have a single name and address.
         b.   The businesses must operate in a compact and contiguous space.
         c.   The businesses must be under the unified control and supervision
of the one person who holds the license.
         d.   Sales must be consummated at a central point or register operated
by the owner of the business, and the owner must maintain a comprehensive
account of all sales.
         e.   The full name, date of birth and address of all dealers must be
disclosed at least ten (10) days prior to conducting business at the time of
original application and renewal.
      2.   The holder of a secondhand goods dealer license under this section
for a business with more than one dealer at the same location must comply with
all of the requirements of this chapter, including the responsibility for
police reporting and record keeping, in the same manner as any other dealer
licensed under this section. A dealer licensed under this subsection is
responsible to its customers for stolen or misrepresented goods sold at its
place of business in the same manner as any other dealer licensed under this
section.
3-18-3: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application Filed; Fee; Distribution Of Copies: Every applicant for a
license or the renewal of a license to maintain, operate, conduct or a
pawnbroker business or a secondhand goods dealer business shall file a
completed application under oath with the city upon a form provided by the
office of the city clerk and pay a nonrefundable investigation fee established
by city council ordinance from time to time. The application, once accepted,
shall be referred to the City of Baxter police division for investigation.
Copies of the application shall be forwarded to such other city departments as
shall be necessary for verification and investigation of the facts set forth in
the application.
   B.   Contents of Application; Issuance Or Denial Recommended:
      1.   The chief of police and such other department heads as necessary
shall make a written recommendation to the city council as to the issuance or
nonissuance of a license within sixty (60) days following receipt of the
completed application. The city may order and conduct such additional
investigation, as it deems necessary. If additional investigation is necessary,
the applicant shall pay the city the actual cost for the additional
investigation. The license shall not be issued until any additional
investigation costs are paid. Every application for a license under this
chapter shall be made on a form supplied by the city and shall contain the
following information:
         a.   Whether the applicant is a natural person, corporation,
partnership or other form of organization.
            (1)   If the applicant is a natural person:
               (A)   The true name, address, social security number, phone
number, driver's license number, date of birth, and residential address of the
applicant.
               (B)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or
a resident alien.
               (C)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a
name other than his present true name and, if so, what was such name or names
and information concerning dates and places where used.
               (D)   The name of the business, if it is to be conducted under a
designation, name or type other than the full individual name of the applicant,
and in such case, a copy of the certification, as required by chapter 333 of
Minnesota statutes, certified by the clerk of district court.
               (E)   The street address at which the applicant has lived during
the preceding five (5) years.
               (F)   The type, name, and location of every business or
occupation in which the applicant has been engaged during the preceding five
(5) years and the names and addresses of the applicant's employers and
partners, if any, for the preceding five (5) years.
               (G)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any
felony, crime, or violation of this code or any other ordinance, other than
traffic. If so, the applicant shall furnish information as to the time, place,
and offense for which convictions were had.
               (H)   The physical description of the applicant.
               (I)   Applicant's current personal financial statement and true
copies of the applicant's federal and state tax returns for the two (2) years
prior to application.
               (J)   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of
the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them required in subsections B1a(1)(A) through B1a(1)(H) of
this section.
               (K)   Whether the applicant has ever been engaged as an employee
or in operating a secondhand goods dealership, pawnbroker, or similar business.
If so, the applicant shall furnish information as to the time, place, and
length of time.
               (L)   If the applicant is married, the true name of the
applicant's spouse and all information regarding the applicant's spouse as is
required of the applicant under subsections B1a(1)(A), B1a(1)(C), and B1a(1)(E)
through B1a(1)(I) of this section.
            (2)   If the applicant is a partnership:
               (A)   The names, addresses, and business addresses of all
general and limited partners and all information concerning each general
partner as is required in subsection B1a(1) or B1a(3) of this section, as
appropriate.
               (B)   The name(s) of managing partner(s) and the interest of
each partner in the business.
               (C)   A true copy of the partnership agreement shall be
submitted with the application. If the partnership is required to file a
certificate as to a trade name under the provisions of chapter 333 of Minnesota
statutes, a copy of such certification by the clerk of district court shall be
attached to the application.
               (D)   A true copy of the federal and state tax returns for
partnership for the two (2) years prior to application.
               (E)   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of
the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them as required in subsection B1a(1) of this section.
         (3)   If the applicant is a corporation or other organization:
               (A)   Name of the corporation or business form, and if
incorporated, the state of incorporation.
               (B)   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, articles
of incorporation or association agreement and bylaws must be attached to the
application. If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a certificate of
authority as required by Minnesota statutes, section 303.06, must be attached.
                (C)   The name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge
of the business and all information containing each manager, proprietor or
agent required in subsection B1a(1) of this section.
               (D)   A list of all persons who control or own an interest in
excess of five percent (5%) in such organization or business form or who are
officers of the corporation or business form and all information concerns said
persons required in subsection B1a(1) of this section. This subsection B1a(3)
(D), however, shall not apply to a corporation whose stock is publicly traded
on a stock exchange and is applying for a license to be owned and operated by
it.
         (4)   All applications shall include the following:
               (A)   The exact legal description of the premises to be
licensed, together with a plot plan of the area showing dimensions, location of
buildings, streets, access, parking facilities and the location of and
distances to the nearest church building and school grounds.
               (B)   Whether the applicant holds a current pawnbroker or
secondhand goods dealer license from any other governmental unit.
               (C)   Whether the applicant has previously been denied, or had
revoked or suspended, a pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer license from any
other governmental unit.
               (D)   The exact location of the business premises.
               (E)   If the applicant does not own the business premises, a
true and complete copy of the executed lease.
               (F)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that
are due and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not
paid, the years and amounts that are unpaid.
               (G)   Whenever the application is for premises either planned or
under construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application must
be accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed
premises to be licensed.
               (H)   The applicant's hours of operation.
               (I)   An executed data privacy advisory and consent form
authorizing the release of criminal history information.
               (J)   Such other information as the city may require.
   C.   Manager: When a licensee places a manager in charge of a business, or
if the named manager(s) in charge of a licensed business changes, the licensee
must complete and submit the appropriate application within fourteen (14) days.
The application must include all appropriate information required in this
section. Upon completion of an investigation of a manager, the licensee must
pay an amount equal to the cost of the investigation to assure compliance with
this chapter. If the investigation process is conducted solely within the state
of Minnesota, the applicant shall pay a fee established by council ordinance
from time to time. If the investigation is conducted outside the state of
Minnesota, the city may recover the actual investigation costs not exceeding an
amount established by council ordinance from time to time.
   D.   False Information: No person shall make any material false statement in
the application. In addition to other penalties, the licensee's license may be
revoked by the city council for giving false information on the application.
   E.   Expiration of License; Change In Application; Additional Fee: All
licenses shall expire on December 31 next after their issuance unless earlier
renewed. A new application fee shall be required whenever there is any change
in the facts presented by the application other than date, applicant's home
address or building owner's address.
   F.   Background Investigation: All applicants requesting a license pursuant
to this chapter shall be required to submit to a background investigation,
including, but not limited to, a criminal history check. The background
investigation will be performed in accordance with section
3-6-5 of this code.
   G.   Bond Required: Each application for a pawnbroker license shall be
accompanied by a bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
executed by a corporation authorized to do business in this state and
conditioned that in conducting such business the licensee will observe all laws
in relation to pawnbrokers and will conduct business in conformity thereto, and
that the licensee will account for and deliver to any person legally entitled
any goods which have come into the licensee's possession through the licensee's
business as a pawnbroker, or in lieu thereof, will pay the reasonable value in
money to the person. Such bond shall be maintained so long as the pawnbroker
does business and shall be for the benefit of the city or any person who shall
suffer any damage through the act of such pawnbroker and shall not be
terminable without the bond company giving written notice thirty (30) days in
advance of termination to the city clerk. (Ord. 2021-004, 4-20-2021)
3-18-4: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Persons Ineligible: No license under this chapter will be issued to an
applicant who is a natural person, a partnership if such applicant has any
general partner or managing partner, a corporation or other organization if
such applicant has any manager, proprietor or agent in charge of the business
to be licensed, if the applicant:
      1.   Is a person not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien;
      2.   Is a person under eighteen (18) years of age;
      3.   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by Minnesota statutes, section 364.03, subdivision 2,
and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and present
fitness to perform the duties of a licensee under this chapter as prescribed by
Minnesota statutes 364.03, subdivision 3;
      4.   Is a person who, within five (5) years of the license application
date, had a pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer license revoked;
      5.   Is a person who the city council determines not to be of sufficient
good moral character and repute; or
      6.   When the city council determines, after investigation and public
hearing, that issuance or renewal of the license would adversely affect the
public health, safety, or welfare.
   B.   Ineligible Locations: A license will not be issued or renewed under
this chapter for any place or for any business:
      1.   If taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city or the
state on the licensee's business premises are delinquent and unpaid;
      2.   If the premises for a pawnbroker is located within three hundred
feet (300') of a school or church; or
      3.   Where operation of a licensed premises would violate zoning
ordinances. (Ord. 2021-004, 4-20-2021)
3-18-5: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Receipt Of Sale: Every pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer purchasing
or receiving on deposit for a loan any article of personal property shall give
to the person selling or depositing such article a plain written or printed
ticket or receipt for the article sold or deposited, showing the terms of such
sale or loan.
   B.   Records Required: At the time of any reportable transaction other than
renewals, extensions, or redemptions, every licensee must immediately record in
English the following information by using ink or other indelible medium on
forms or in a computerized record approved by the director of public safety or
designee.
   The records so kept shall include the following information about each
transaction:
      1.   Description: A complete and accurate description of each item
including, but not limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial
number, model number, brand name, or other identifying mark on such an item.
      2.   Price: The purchase price, amount of money loaned upon, asking price
if consigned, or value attributed to item if accepted in trade, for each item
received.
      3.   Receipt Date And Transaction Identifier: Date and time the item of
property was received by the licensee, and the unique alpha and/or numeric
transaction identifier that distinguishes it from all other transactions in the
licensee's records.
      4.   Description Of Seller/Pledger: Full name, residence address,
residence telephone number, date of birth and accurate physical description of
the person from whom the item of property was received, including: sex, height,
weight, race, color of eyes, and color of hair.
      5.   Maturity Date And Amount Due: For pawnbroker, the maturity date of
the transaction and the amount due, including monthly and annual interest rates
and all pawn fees and charges.
      6.   Identification Documents Of Seller/Pledger: The identification
number and state of issue from any of the following forms of identification
presented by the seller or pledger:
         a.   Current valid Minnesota driver's license.
         b.   Current valid Minnesota identification card.
         c.   Current valid photo identification card issued by another state
or a province of Canada.
      7.   Signature: The signature of the person pledging or selling the item.
      8.   Photographic Records: The licensee must also take a color photograph
or color video recording which meets acceptable video standards as established
by the public safety director or designee of:
         a.   Every customer involved in a "reportable transaction" as defined
in this chapter; and
         b.   Every item that does not have a unique serial or identification
number permanently engraved or affixed.
      If a photograph is taken, it must be done in a format that will produce a
picture at least two inches (2") in length by two inches (2") in width and must
be maintained in such a manner that the photograph can be readily matched and
correlated with all other records of the transaction to which it relates. Such
photographs must be available to the public safety director, or designee, upon
request. The major portion of the photograph must include an identifiable front
facial close up of the person who sold, consigned, traded or pawned the item.
Items photographed must be accurately depicted.
      The licensee must inform the person that he or she is being photographed
by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous place on the premises.
      If a video photograph is taken, the video camera must zoom in on the
person selling or pawning the item so as to include an identifiable close up of
that person's face. Items photographed by video must be accurately depicted.
Video photographs must be electronically referenced by time and date so they
can be readily matched and correlated with all other records of the transaction
to which they relate. The licensee must inform the person that he or she is
being videotaped orally and by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a
conspicuous place on the premises. The licensee must keep the exposed videotape
for three (3) months.
      9.   Digital Images: Licensees may fulfill the color photograph
requirements in subsection B8 of this section by generating them as digital
images, in a format specified by the public safety director, or designee,
electronically cross referenced to the reportable transaction the images are
associated with. The licensee must keep the digital images on the premises
available for inspection for ninety (90) days. Notwithstanding that digital
images may be captured from video recordings, this provision does not alter or
amend the requirements in subsection B8 of this section.
      10.   Records For Renewal, Extension And Redemption: For renewals,
extensions and redemptions, the licensee shall provide the original transaction
identifier, the date of the current transaction, and the type of transaction.
      11.   Inspection Of Records: The records must at all reasonable times be
open to inspection by the chief of police, or designee. Records of all
transactions shall be retained for at least three (3) years from the date of
transaction. Entries of digital images, when implemented, shall be retained a
minimum of ninety (90) days.
   C.   Reports Required:
      1.   Pawnbroker: Upon connection to a multiple jurisdiction computerized/
automated pawn data reporting system by the police division, a pawnbroker
licensee shall submit all information required for pawnbroker transaction
records via computerized transmission in accordance with the standards and
procedures established by the chief of police. All required transactions record
data shall be transmitted at the close of each business day. Upon connection to
APS, the licensee need not adhere to the written submission requirements unless
the licensee is unable to successfully transfer the required reports by modem.
All licensees shall be required to convert to APS reporting within six (6)
months after the police department notifies the licensee that the police
division APS system is in operation. All costs for set up, submittal per
transaction, and any other determined costs shall be the sole responsibility of
the licensee. The records required herein shall be kept at the licensee's place
of business for four (4) years and shall be available for police inspection at
any reasonable time.
      2.   Secondhand Goods Dealer: All secondhand goods dealers must submit to
the chief of police, or designee, a complete list of the following recordable
transactions, regardless of resale price, once per month, no later than twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon the first business day of the following month, on a form
approved by the chief of police. The report shall include a description of the
goods received during the preceding month, together with the time received and
a description of the person from whom the goods were received:
         a.   Items with a serial number identification or "operation
identification" symbol or number, or other identification number;
         b.   Cameras;
         c.   Electronic audio, including, but not limited to, audio equipment,
video equipment, computers and computer related equipment;
         d.   Precious jewelry or gems, and precious metals (including precious
scrap metals);
         e.   Artist signed or artist attributed works of art;
         f.   Coin collections;
         g.   Sports memorabilia;
         h.   Guns and firearms; and
         i.   Items not included in the above, except furniture and kitchen or
laundry appliances, which the secondhand goods dealer intends to sell for more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 2021-004, 4-20-2021)
3-18-6: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
Any person, firm or corporation licensed under the provisions of this chapter
shall, at all times during the terms of said license, allow the officers of the
police force of the city police department or any other law enforcement agency
to enter the premises where the licensee is carrying on such business or at any
property or buildings used for storage of items related to the business, for
the purpose of inspecting such premises and inspecting the goods, wares and
merchandise therein for the purpose of locating goods suspected or alleged to
have been stolen or otherwise improperly disposed of. (Ord. 2021-004, 4-20-
2021)
3-18-7: BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS; REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Required Holding Period:
      1.   When the chief of police, or any member of the police department
designated by the chief of police, or any other law enforcement agency notifies
any pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer not to sell any property received on
deposit or purchased by him or her, or not to permit the same to be redeemed,
the pawnbroker shall not sell nor permit such property to be redeemed until
such property is released in writing by the chief of police, or designee.
      2.   No personal property deposited with or purchased by any licensee
under this chapter shall be sold from the place of business of licensee until
thirty (30) days after the copy of the records required by section 3-18-5 of
this chapter have been made available to the chief of police except upon
written permission of the chief of police.
      3.   No personal property deposited with or purchased by any licensee
under this chapter shall be permitted to be redeemed from the place of business
of the licensee until three (3) working days after the copy of the records
required by section 3-18-5 of this chapter have been made available to the
chief of police except upon written permission of the chief of police.
   B.   Report Of Stolen Or Lost Goods: If any goods, articles or things shall
be advertised in any public newspaper of the city as having been lost or
stolen, and such goods, articles or things shall then be, or shall thereafter
come into the possession of any licensee under the terms hereof, said licensee
shall, upon actual notice thereof, immediately thereafter, as a supplement to
said licensee's required report pertaining to that day to the chief of police,
give information in writing that certain goods, articles or things advertised
are in said licensee's possession, and shall not thereafter dispose of the same
except upon written authority so to do from the chief of police.
   C.   Redemption Period: Any person who pawns an item shall have at least
thirty (30) days to redeem the item before it may be sold.
   D.   Prohibited Transactions:
      1.   No pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer shall purchase or receive
on deposit or pledge anything of value as security for a loan of money from any
person under age eighteen (18) nor knowingly from an intoxicated person or one
of unsound mind.
      2.   A pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer may not receive goods unless
the seller presents identification in the form of a driver's license or other
picture identification in the approved prescribed manner.
      3.   Prohibited Goods: No licensee under this section shall accept any
item of property which contains an altered or obliterated serial number or
operations identification number or any item of property whose serial number
has been removed.
   E.   Storage Of Firearms And Weapons: A pawnbroker or secondhand goods
dealer holding for sale a firearm or other dangerous weapon shall store the
firearm or dangerous weapon in a locked and opaque compartment except when
being viewed by a customer following a request to view the firearm or dangerous
weapon. The licensee shall meet all local, state and federal requirements prior
to receiving or selling any firearm or dangerous weapon and make available to
the chief of police all records and documents prior to engaging in such
activity.
   F.   Method Of Payment: When a pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer accepts
an item for purchase or as security for a loan, payment shall be made by check
only, made payable to the actual intended seller or borrower.
   G.   Camera Surveillance: Licensee shall be required to videotape all
transactions and maintain a data copy of the recording for ninety (90) days.
The video recording shall include a clear view of the customer and shall
display the date and time of the transaction. The videotape recordings shall be
provided to the police division or other law enforcement agency upon request.
It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to notify the customer of the
videotaping and post in a conspicuous place that the tapes are made available
to the police division.
   H.   Burglar Alarm: Licensee shall maintain an electronic burglar alarm
system for the licensed premises, such system must be maintained in working
order and properly licensed with the city clerk.
   I.   Labels: Licensee must attach a label to every item at the time it is
pawned, purchased or received in inventory from any reportable transaction.
Permanently recorded on this label must be the number or name that identifies
their transaction in the pawnshop records, the transaction date, the name of
the item, the model and serial number as they were reported to the police
division, if applicable, and the date the item is out of pawn care or can be
sold, if applicable. The label must be of the type that can be attached to a
variety of surfaces and remains easily removable but of such construction that
it may not be easily removed in one piece. Labels shall not be reused. (Ord.
2021-004, 4-20-2021)
3-18-8: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any license under this chapter may be denied, suspended, or revoked for
any of the following reasons:
      1.   The proposed use does not comply with the Baxter zoning code.
      2.   The proposed use does not comply with any health, building, building
maintenance provisions, or other provisions of this code or state law.
      3.   The applicant or licensee has failed to comply with one or more
provisions of this chapter.
      4.   The applicant is not a citizen of the United States or a resident
alien, or upon whom it is impractical or impossible to conduct a background or
financial investigation due to the unavailability of information.
      5.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or bribery in securing or renewing a
license.
      6.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in the
application and investigation for, or in the course of the applicant's
business.
      7.   Violation within the preceding five (5) years, of any law relating
to theft, damage or trespass to property, sale of a controlled substance, or
unlawful operation of a business.
      8.   The owner of the premises licensed or to be licensed would not
qualify for a license under the terms of this chapter.
      9.   Any falsification on a license application shall result in the
denial of a license. If the falsification is discovered after a license is
issued, the license is null and void without any further action by the city
council. (Ord. 2021-004, 4-20-2021)
3-18-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in
section 1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2021-004, 4-20-2021)
CHAPTER 19
SEASONAL RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
3-19-1: Purpose
3-19-2: Definitions
3-19-3: License Required
3-19-4: Application For License
3-19-5: License Fee; Term
3-19-6: License Not Transferable
3-19-7: Posting Of License
3-19-8: Health Standards
3-19-9: Development And Performance Standards
3-19-10: Other Conditions
3-19-11: Penalty
3-19-1: PURPOSE:
The city council finds that there is a need to regulate the operation of a
seasonal recreational camping vehicle park (SRCVP) by requiring an annual
license. Annual review of the operation will ensure proper maintenance and
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public. (Ord. 2006-24, 8-1-2006)
3-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions set forth in the "Baxter Seasonal Recreational Camping Vehicle
Park Policy Manual" shall apply to this chapter. (Ord. 2006-24, 8-1-2006)
3-19-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of operating an SRCVP without first
having obtained a license hereunder. It shall be unlawful for any person to
continue to operate any SRCVP unless they hold a valid city license. (Ord.
2006-24, 8-1-2006)
3-19-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for an SRCVP shall be filed each year with the city clerk. The
application shall contain the following information:
   A.   Name, business and home address, or if the applicant is a partnership,
association or corporation, the name and address of such partnership,
association or corporation;
   B.   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and business and home
addresses of all partners; if the applicant is an association or corporation,
the names and business and home addresses of the majority of the owners
thereof;
   C.   The address and legal description of the SRCVP; and
   D.   A plan of the SRCVP, drawn to scale, showing compliance with the
"Baxter Seasonal Recreational Camping Vehicle Park Policy Manual". (Ord. 2006-
24, 8-1-2006)
3-19-5: LICENSE FEE; TERM:
The license fee for each year or any portion thereof shall be as set from time
to time by the city council. Licenses shall be issued for a period of one year,
from January 1 to December 31, expiring on December 31 of any given year. (Ord.
2006-24, 8-1-2006)
3-19-6: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
Licenses hereunder shall be nontransferable. No refunds shall be made on unused
portions of licenses except upon resolution of the council. (Ord. 2006-24, 8-1-
2006)
3-19-7: POSTING OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued hereunder shall be posted in the place of business of the
licensee and shall be shown to any officer or citizen who demands to see the
same. (Ord. 2006-24, 8-1-2006)
3-19-8: HEALTH STANDARDS:
Every SRCVP shall comply with all of the health standards set forth in the
"Baxter Seasonal Recreational Camping Vehicle Park Policy Manual" and state
requirements. (Ord. 2006-24, 8-1-2006)
3-19-9: DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The owner or operator of any SRCVP shall develop and maintain the operation in
compliance with the "Baxter Seasonal Recreational Camping Vehicle Park Policy
Manual". Failure on the part of the owner or operator or his employees to
comply shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-24, 8-1-2006)
3-19-10: OTHER CONDITIONS:
The city may impose reasonable conditions to a license renewal to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the general public. In connection with an SRCVP,
the council will consider the following matters and impose restrictions to
protect the general public and the residents of property adjacent to the
property where the licensed activity is conducted:
   A.   Management of the SRCVP;
   B.   Adequacy of off street parking facilities;
   C.   Compliance by the applicant with other applicable provisions of this
code; and
   D.   Other factors deemed necessary by the council. (Ord. 2006-24, 8-1-2006)
3-19-11: PENALTY:
Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Such penalty may be imposed in addition to
suspension or revocation of a license. (Ord. 2006-24, 8-1-2006)
CHAPTER 20
MOBILE AND SEASONAL VENDING
SECTION:
3-20-1: Purpose And Findings
3-20-2: Definitions
3-20-3: Permit
3-20-4: Mobile Vending Regulations
3-20-5: Seasonal Vending Regulations
3-20-6: Permit Application And Plan Submission
3-20-7: Permit Review
3-20-8: Indemnification
3-20-9: Insurance Requirements
3-20-10: Compliance With Permit
3-20-11: Permit Revocation
3-20-12: Enforcement
3-20-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
It is the purpose of the city council to regulate the time, place and manner of
mobile and seasonal vending when the use impacts upon the health, sanitary,
fire, police, transportation and utility services exceed those regularly
provided to that property. This chapter is enacted in order to promote the
health, safety and welfare of all residents and visitors of the city by
ensuring that mobile and seasonal vending does not create disturbances, become
nuisances, menace or threaten life, health or property, disrupt traffic or
threaten or damage private or public property. (Ord. 2016-015, 5-3-2016)
3-20-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, will have
the following meanings:
GROCERY STORE: A retail store that primarily sells food but not including gas
station stores.
MOBILE CATERING: A mobile vending operation that provides food and/or
nonalcoholic beverage from a mobile vending unit to a private group or
gathering of people where a bill is paid in advance and the mobile vending unit
is not open for sales to the general public.
MOBILE VENDING: An operation that stores, prepares, packages, cooks, serves,
vends or otherwise provides food and/or nonalcoholic beverage for human
consumption from a mobile vending unit. Mobile vending is a temporary use that
remains stationary on private property for the duration of a sale period, which
lasts between one and twelve (12) hours in an approved location that is
authorized with a mobile vending permit.
MOBILE VENDING UNIT: Not more than one readily movable mobile truck, vehicle,
recreational vehicle, trailer, kiosk (stand or booth), wagon, cart or other
mobile temporary structure used for mobile or seasonal vending.
SEASONAL VENDING: An operation that stores, prepares, packages, cooks, serves,
vends or otherwise provides food and/or nonalcoholic beverage for human
consumption from a mobile vending unit. Seasonal vending is a temporary
accessory use to grocery stores, whereby the owner of the grocery store
operates a mobile vending unit to sell prepared food products that are
customarily sold in their grocery store. Seasonal vending allows a mobile
vending unit to remain stationary on private property for a summer season not
to exceed one hundred fifty (150) consecutive days of sales in an approved
location that is authorized with a mobile vending permit for seasonal vending.
(Ord. 2016-015, 5-3-2016)
3-20-3: PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, business, organization shall operate mobile
and seasonal vending in the city without first obtaining a mobile vending
permit from the city, in addition to any other permits required by the county,
state or other city ordinance. The mobile vending operation shall comply with
all applicable requirements of this Code or other food, fire prevention,
health, safety, County, State and Federal laws and regulations.
   B.   Exceptions: A permit is not required for:
      1.   A temporary fundraising event located directly adjacent to the front
entrance of a grocery store or other retail store involving food from small
scale grill or other temporary food distribution using a small temporary table,
shall not be categorized as mobile and seasonal vending.
      2.   Mobile vending operations accessory to a permitted special event
permit that is approved by the City. A mobile vending operation on its own does
not constitute a special event.
      3.   Peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants as defined by chapter
8 of this title shall be regulated based on the requirements of chapter 8 of
this title.
      4.   Mobile catering operations on private property. Locations for mobile
catering operations shall be compatible with the character of the surrounding
neighborhood considering the possible creation of problems including noise,
lighting, traffic, sanitation, congestion and other factors affecting the
public health, safety and welfare of such areas in addition to compliance with
all ordinances of this City and applicable statutes and regulations. (Ord.
2016-015, 5-3-2016)
3-20-4: MOBILE VENDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permit applications shall expire on January 1 of each year. The permit
is valid for the permittee only and is not transferable in any manner. The
permit shall be valid only when used for approved locations, as allowed under
the permit in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   A mobile vending permit is valid for one mobile vending unit, which can
be relocated to as many as ten (10) approved sites in the City. Each site shall
be established with the mobile vending permit with permission in writing from
property owners. A permit applicant may apply to amend their permit to revise
locations provided that no more than ten (10) total locations are used during
the calendar year. Revised permits shall be approved by City staff based on the
requirements of this chapter.
   C.   A mobile vending unit may locate in the City’s Business Zoning
Districts, including the C1, C2, OS, or I District, provided that the mobile
vending unit is located at least two hundred feet (200') from a Residentially
zoned or used property and at least three hundred feet (300') from a brick and
mortar restaurant. The three hundred foot (300') setback may be waived by the
City if the permittee furnishes written consent from the proprietor of the
brick and mortar restaurant.
   D.   Collocating more than one separately licensed mobile vending unit on
the same site may be allowed, provided the site is designed to accommodate
multiple vending units.
   E.   Any two (2) or more separate, licensed, mobile vendors that receive
approval for the same property, shall develop a specific plan/schedule to avoid
any disputes as one vendor’s rights over another for locating mobile vending
units on the site.
   F.   A mobile vending unit may locate at school sites or the Northland
Arboretum with the permission of the property owner.
   G.   A mobile vending unit must locate on private property, on a paved
surface, in a location that does not interfere with pedestrian or accessible
routes, required parking, traffic circulation or emergency vehicle access on
the site. Mobile vending units are prohibited within the public right-of-way.
   H.   A mobile vending unit may not locate at a given site for more than two
(2) days per week. The mobile vending unit may locate on a given site only
between the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and twelve o’clock (12:00)
midnight or close of business for the principal use on the property, whichever
is earlier.
   I.   Providing or selling of merchandise or other retail items related to a
mobile vending operation is prohibited.
   J.   The mobile vending area shall be kept clean by the permittee. Trash
receptacles including leakproof, nonabsorbent containers shall be kept covered
with tightfitting lids and provided in proximity to the mobile vending unit.
The trash receptacles shall be maintained to avoid any littering in association
with the use and properly disposed of. Each permittee is responsible for the
disposal of trash left by customers.
   K.   A staff person, legally capable of moving the unit shall stay with the
mobile vending unit at all times.
   L.   The use of seating, tents, canopies or umbrellas related to the mobile
vending operation is prohibited. The exception is that a canopy that is
attached to the mobile vending unit may be used to provide shade for the sales
location.
   M.   The use of power cords or water hoses related to the mobile vending
unit is prohibited. An exception includes the use of power cords that run from
generator placed in the vicinity of the mobile vending unit to the mobile
vending unit.
   N.   The City may require the use of bollards or other traffic or pedestrian
flow devices, as needed to maintain safety.
   O.   The use of sound amplifying equipment, televisions or similar visual
entertainment devices, lights, or noisemakers, such as bells, horns, whistles
related to the mobile vending unit is prohibited. Exceptions include low volume
use of a vehicle radio or other music that can only be heard at the mobile
vending unit and televisions or other screens used in association with a menu
board for the vending unit.
   P.   Other than lighting required for a vehicle or trailer, no lighting
shall be used to light the mobile vending unit or the area around the mobile
vending unit. Lighting shall not be used to attract attention to the mobile
vending unit.
   Q.   A mobile vending permittee shall be allowed signage on any face of the
mobile vending unit. The signage shall be secured flat against the mobile
vending unit, not projecting more than six inches (6") from the exterior of the
unit and no more than three feet (3') above the roof deck of the unit. No
signage shall be placed on top of a roof deck of any mobile vending unit. Any
menu boards shall be directly attached or inside of the mobile vending unit. No
external freestanding signage or banners are allowed for the mobile vending
operation. No inflatables, lights, or other attention attracting devices are
allowed for the mobile vending operation.
   R.   At the time of the mobile vending permit, the owner shall submit a Best
Management Practices plan to be reviewed and approved by the City Council that
identifies how they will appropriately dispose of wastewater and FOG (fats,
oils and grease).
   S.   A mobile vending unit may not have a drive-through.
   T.   A mobile vending permittee shall obey any lawful order of a police
officer, traffic control agent, or regulatory services inspector to move to a
different authorized location to avoid congestion or obstruction of parking
lots, pedestrian trails, or adjacent streets.
   U.   No mobile vending unit shall be kept, stored, or maintained on a
Residentially zoned property. No mobile vending unit shall be used as sleeping
quarters in the City.
   V.   The mobile vending permit locations shall be compatible with the
character of the surrounding neighborhood considering the possible creation of
problems including noise, lighting, traffic, sanitation, congestion and other
factors affecting the public health, safety and welfare of such areas in
addition to compliance with all ordinances of this City and applicable statutes
and regulations. (Ord. 2018-004, 4-3-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-018, 11-2-2021)
3-20-5: SEASONAL VENDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Seasonal vending is a temporary accessory use to grocery stores,
whereby the owner of the grocery store operates a mobile vending unit on the
same property as the grocery store to sell prepared food products that are
customarily sold in their grocery store.
   B.   A maximum of one mobile vending unit may be authorized by permit for
each grocery store.
   C.   The mobile vending unit may be located on the site for a summer season
not to exceed one hundred fifty (150) consecutive days of sales. The dates for
the sale period shall be identified with the permit application. Two (2)
additional days are authorized at the beginning and two (2) additional days are
authorized at the end of the sale period for set up and removal of the mobile
vending unit.
   D.   The mobile vending unit shall remain stationary on private property, in
an approved location on the site for the duration of the permit. The owner may
move the mobile vending unit to and from the approved mobile vending unit site
during the one hundred fifty (150) day period, provided the mobile vending unit
is not used within the city, unless otherwise authorized by this chapter.
   E.   The mobile vending unit shall be located at least two hundred feet
(200') from a residentially zoned or used property.
   F.   Collocating more than one separately licensed mobile vending unit on
the same site may be allowed, provided the site is designed to accommodate
multiple vending units and provided the mobile vending units are permitted
through the requirements of this chapter.
   G.   A mobile vending unit must locate on private property, on a paved
surface, in a location that does not interfere with pedestrian or accessible
routes, required parking, traffic circulation or emergency vehicle access on
the site. Mobile vending units are prohibited within the public right of way.
   H.   Exterior materials and colors of the mobile vending unit shall be
designed to be complementary to the principal building. The community
development director has the authority to require that the mobile vending unit
be reviewed by the city architectural review commission and city council to
ensure that the mobile vending unit is consistent with the purpose and intent
of the city's architectural design standards for commercial property.
   I.   The size of the mobile vending unit shall be complementary to the site
and location where it is parked. The mobile vending unit shall not exceed
twenty six feet (26') in total length and shall not exceed ten feet (10') in
total height from grade to the highest point of the mobile vending unit. The
community development director has the authority to require the size of the
mobile vending unit be reviewed by the city architectural review commission and
city council to ensure that the size of the mobile vending unit is
complementary to the surrounding property.
   J.   The mobile vending unit may be open between the hours of eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. Additionally, the mobile vending unit
may not be open unless the grocery store is open so that customers have access
to restroom facilities inside the building.
   K.   Providing or selling of merchandise or other retail items related to a
seasonal vending operation is prohibited.
   L.   The seasonal vending area shall be kept clean by the permittee. Trash
receptacles including leakproof, nonabsorbent containers shall be kept covered
with tightfitting lids and provided in proximity to the mobile vending unit.
The trash receptacles shall be maintained to avoid any littering in association
with the use and properly disposed of. Each permittee is responsible for the
disposal of trash left by customers.
   M.   At the time of the mobile vending permit for seasonal vending, the
owner shall submit a best management practices plan to be reviewed and approved
by the city council that identifies how they will appropriately dispose of
wastewater and FOG (fats, oils and grease).
   N.   A staff person, legally capable of moving the unit shall be on the
premises at all times while the mobile vending unit is open for business.
   O.   The use of seating, tents, canopies or umbrellas related to the
seasonal vending operation is prohibited. The exception is that a canopy that
is attached to the mobile vending unit may be used to provide shade for the
sales location.
   P.   The use of temporary power cords or water lines or sewer lines related
to the mobile vending unit is prohibited. If the owner chooses to hook the
mobile vending unit up to electric, water, or sanitary sewer services, the
connections shall be installed underground in a permanent manner to a hookup
post installed in close proximity to the mobile vending unit. The permanent
utilities shall be approved with separate electric and/or mechanical permits.
The owner may also use power cords that run from generator placed in the
vicinity of the mobile vending unit to the mobile vending unit.
   Q.   The city may require the use of bollards or other traffic or pedestrian
flow devices, as needed to maintain safety.
   R.   The use of sound amplifying equipment, televisions or similar visual
entertainment devices, lights, or noisemakers, such as bells, horns, whistles
related to the mobile vending unit is prohibited. Exceptions include low volume
use of a vehicle radio or other music that can only be heard at the mobile
vending unit and televisions or other screens used in association with a menu
board for the vending unit.
   S.   Other than lighting required for a vehicle or trailer, no lighting
shall be used to light the mobile vending unit or the area around the mobile
vending unit. Lighting shall not be used to attract attention to the mobile
vending unit.
   T.   A seasonal vending permittee shall be allowed signage up to twenty five
percent (25%) of any face of the mobile vending unit. The signage shall be
secured flat against the mobile vending unit, not projecting more than six
inches (6") from the exterior of the unit and no more than three feet (3')
above the roof deck of the unit. No signage shall be placed on top of a roof
deck of any mobile vending unit. Any menu boards shall be directly attached or
inside of the mobile vending unit. No external freestanding signage or banners
are allowed for the seasonal vending operation. No inflatables, lights, or
other attention attracting devices are allowed for the seasonal vending
operation.
   U.   A mobile vending unit may not have a drive-through.
   V.   A seasonal vending permittee shall obey any lawful order of a police
officer, traffic control agent, or regulatory services inspector to move to a
different authorized location to avoid congestion or obstruction of parking
lots, pedestrian trails, or adjacent streets.
   W.   For the dates beyond the approved sale period, the mobile vending unit
shall be removed from the property, moved inside a building, or moved to a
staff approved storage location in the back or side of the building, away from
primary street frontages. No mobile vending unit shall be kept, stored, or
maintained on a residentially zoned property in the city of Baxter. No mobile
vending unit shall be used as sleeping quarters in the city.
   X.   The seasonal vending permit locations shall be compatible with the
character of the surrounding neighborhood considering the possible creation of
problems including noise, lighting, traffic, sanitation, congestion and other
factors affecting the public health, safety and welfare of such areas in
addition to compliance with all ordinances of this city and applicable statutes
and regulations. (Ord. 2016-015, 5-3-2016)
3-20-6: PERMIT APPLICATION AND PLAN SUBMISSION:
   A.   Form: Application for a mobile vending permit must be made in writing
and must contain a statement made upon oath or affirmation that the statements
contained therein are true and correct to the best knowledge of the applicant
and must be signed and sworn to or affirmed by the individual making
application in the case of a corporation, by all partners in the case of a
partnership, or by all officers of an unincorporated association, society or
group, or, if there are no officers, by all members of such association,
society, or group. The application must contain and disclose the following:
      1.   Applicant name, address, phone number and signature and mobile or
seasonal vending signature if different from the applicant;
      2.   A scaled site plan or aerial photo showing lot lines, buildings,
parking areas, and the proposed mobile or seasonal vending location (to scale)
proposed for the site. A separate site plan or aerial photo with this
information shall be submitted for each of the proposed sites under the permit.
The plan shall include the dimensions of the mobile vending unit;
      3.   Property owner consent for any mobile or seasonal vending sites
under the permit;
      4.   A written description of the use, the products to be sold, and
schedule for operation of the mobile vending unit, including a listing of
locations and their addresses, the activities planned, and beginning and end
times for the mobile or seasonal vending to take place under the permit;
      5.   Estimated number of persons to operate the mobile vending unit;
      6.   Any public health plans for water, waste, and toilet facilities, as
applicable;
      7.   A statement signed by the applicant agreeing to meet all of the
requirements of this section;
      8.   Insurance as identified (below) in this chapter;
      9.   Health department approval for the mobile or seasonal vending
operation;
      10.   Any other information requested by the city, acting through its
city administrator or chief of police deemed reasonably necessary in order to
determine the nature of the mobile vending permit.
   B.   Time For Filing: Mobile vending permit applications must be submitted
no earlier than January 1 for that year's license. The city shall have at least
thirty (30) days from January 1 to review the license applications. Mobile
vending permit applications for seasonal vending must be submitted at least
thirty (30) days in advance of the sale start date.
   C.   Permit Fee: An applicant for a mobile vending permit must pay a
nonrefundable permit fee in the amount established from time to time by the
city's fee ordinance. The fee shall not be prorated. (Ord. 2016-015, 5-3-2016)
3-20-7: PERMIT REVIEW:
   A.   Application And Review: Upon receipt of a mobile vending permit
application, the community development director shall be responsible for
promptly processing the application, including conferring with department heads
and the applicant as necessary to implement the provisions of this chapter,
and, when required by this chapter. Mobile and Seasonal permits may be approved
administratively by the Community Development Director, provided that the
application complies with this chapter. The Community Development Director
shall have the authority to defer any application to the City Council.
   B.   Permit Denial: The city may deny an application for a mobile vending
permit if it determines from a consideration of the application or other
pertinent information, that:
      1.   The information contained in the application or supplemental
information requested from the applicant is false or nonexistent in any
material detail;
      2.   The applicant fails to supplement the application after having been
notified by the city of additional information or documents needed;
      3.   The applicant fails to agree to abide or comply with all of the
conditions and terms of the mobile vending permit and this chapter, including
payment of all costs and expenses;
      4.   The mobile vending permit would substantially or unnecessarily
interfere with traffic in the city, would interfere with access to the fire
station or fire hydrants, or would interfere with access to businesses or
residences in the immediate vicinity;
      5.   A location of the mobile vending unit will substantially interfere
with any construction or maintenance work scheduled to take place upon or along
public property or right of way;
      6.   The mobile vending permit would likely endanger the public safety or
health;
      7.   The mobile vending permit would substantially or unnecessarily
interfere with police, fire, water, public works or other services to the city
as a whole and there are not sufficient city resources to mitigate the
disruption;
      8.   The applicant fails to comply with the liability insurance
requirements or the applicant’s insurance lapses or is canceled;
      9.   The mobile vending permit would likely create or constitute a public
nuisance;
      10.   The mobile vending permit would be likely to cause significant
damage to public property or facilities;
      11.   The mobile vending permit would engage in or encourage participants
to engage in illegal acts;
      12.   The applicant, responsible party or the person on whose behalf the
application is submitted has on prior occasions made material
misrepresentations regarding the nature and extent of mobile vending permit or
has violated the terms of a prior mobile vending permit; or
      13.   A mobile vending unit used for seasonal vending has an exterior
design, materials, and colors that are not complementary to the principal
building and are inconsistent with the purpose and intent of the city’s
architectural design standards for commercial property. (Ord. 2016-015, 5-3-
2016; amd. Ord. 2021-018, 11-2-2021)
3-20-8: INDEMNIFICATION:
A mobile vending permittee shall defend and hold the city, its officials,
employees, and agents harmless from any claim that arises in whole or in part
out of the mobile vending permit, except any claims arising solely out of the
negligent acts or omissions of the city, its officials, employees and agents.
(Ord. 2016-015, 5-3-2016)
3-20-9: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Liability Insurance Required: The applicant of the mobile vending
permit must possess or obtain liability insurance to protect against loss from
liability imposed by law for damages on account of bodily injury or property
damage arising from the mobile or seasonal vending operation. A certificate of
insurance must be filed with the city prior to issuance of the mobile vending
permit. The certificate of insurance must name the city, its officials,
employees and agents as additional insured. Insurance coverage must be
maintained for the duration of the mobile vending permit.
   B.   Minimum Limits: Insurance coverage must be a commercial general
liability policy. The minimum limits must be at least one million dollars
($1,000,000.00). The city may require additional endorsements depending upon
the type of mobile or seasonal vending operation and the proposed activities.
   C.   Waiver Or Reduction Of Required Limits: The city may waive or reduce
insurance requirements of this section under the following circumstances:
      1.   The applicant or officer of the sponsoring organization signs a
verified statement that the insurance coverage required by this section is
impossible to obtain; or
      2.   The city determines that the insurance requirements are in excess of
the reasonable risk presented by the proposed mobile vending permit. (Ord.
2016-015, 5-3-2016)
3-20-10: COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT:
   A.   Unlawful To Exceed The Scope Of The Permit: The mobile vending permit
authorizes the permittee activities only as described in the permit, and in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the permit. It is unlawful for the
permittee to wilfully violate the terms and conditions of the permit. (Ord.
2016-015, 5-3-2016)
3-20-11: PERMIT REVOCATION:
A mobile vending permit may be revoked by the city at any time for failure to
comply with the provisions of this chapter and conditions of the permit. The
provisions of this chapter are not exclusive. Revocation may be based upon good
cause as authorized by this chapter but shall not preclude the enforcement of
any other provisions of this code or other food, fire prevention, health,
safety, county, state and federal laws and regulations. (Ord. 2016-015, 5-3-
2016)
3-20-12: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Injunction: The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by
injunction in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Public Nuisance: If a mobile vending permit is in violation of any
provision or condition contained in this chapter, the permit will be deemed a
public nuisance and may be abated as such. Issuance of a mobile vending permit
by the city does not preclude the right of an individual to pursue a private
nuisance action against the applicant. (Ord. 2016-015, 5-3-2016)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Public Nuisance Defined
4-1-2: Nuisances Affecting Health
4-1-3: Nuisances Affecting Morals And Decency
4-1-4: Nuisances Affecting Peace And Safety
4-1-5: Duties Of City Officers
4-1-6: Notice Of Public Nuisance; Abatement
4-1-7: Recovery Of Cost
4-1-8: Penalty
4-1-1: PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED:
Whoever by his act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally does any of
the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is a
misdemeanor:
   A.   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures, or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort, or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public; or
   B.   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage, any
public highway or right of way, or waters used by the public; or
   C.   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or this chapter
to be a public nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically provided.
(Ord. 5.1, 6-5-1984)
4-1-2: NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   A.   Decayed Or Unwholesome Food Or Vegetable Matter: Exposed accumulation
of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable matter.
   B.   Diseased Animals: All diseased animals running at large.
   C.   Stagnant Water: All ponds or pools of stagnant water.
   D.   Carcasses: Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within twenty
four (24) hours after death.
   E.   Manure; Debris: Accumulations of manure, refuse, or other debris.
   F.   Privy Vaults; Garbage Cans: Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not
rodentfree or flytight or which are so maintained so as to constitute a health
hazard or to emit foul and disagreeable odors.
   G.   Pollution: The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake,
canal or body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances. (Ord.
5.1, 6-5-1984)
   H.   Tall Grass And Weeds: Any violation of chapter 4, "Regulating Growth Of
Tall Grass And Weeds", of this title. (Ord. 2009-9, 5-19-2009)
   I.   Smoke And Fumes: Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders,
in unreasonable quantities.
   J.   Contagious Disease: All public exposure of persons having a contagious
disease.
   K.   Offensive Trade Or Business: Any offensive trade or business as defined
by statute not operating under local license. (Ord. 5.1, 6-5-1984)
4-1-3: NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals and
decency:
   A.   All gambling devices, slot machines, and punchboards.
   B.   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in such occupations.
   C.   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdyhouses.
   D.   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, persons are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining such a place.
   E.   Any vehicle used for the transportation of intoxicating liquor, or for
promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal purpose. (Ord.
5.1, 6-5-1984)
   F.   Notwithstanding the above provisions, any gambling authorized and
licensed by the state of Minnesota pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapter 349
shall not be considered a nuisance and may be permitted as set forth in said
statutes. (Ord. 2005-2, 1-18-2005)
4-1-4: NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY:
The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and safety:
   A.   Snow And Ice: All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks twelve
(12) hours after the snow or other precipitation causing the condition has
ceased to fall.
   B.   Obstructions At Intersections: All trees, hedges, billboards, or other
obstructions which prevent persons from having a clear view of all traffic
approaching an intersection.
   C.   Wires; Tree Limbs: All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to
the surface of a sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or
vehicles.
   D.   Noises; Vibrations: All unnecessary noises and annoying vibrations.
   E.   Obstructions; Excavations: Obstructions and excavations affecting the
ordinary use by the public of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds
except under such conditions as are permitted by this code or other applicable
law.
   F.   Radio Aerials; Television Antennas: Radio aerials or television
antennas erected or maintained in a dangerous manner.
   G.   Obstruction Of Streets: Any use of property abutting on a public street
or sidewalk or any use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds
of people to gather, obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or
sidewalk.
   H.   Hanging Objects Over Public Ways: All hanging signs, awnings, or other
similar structures over streets and sidewalks, or situated so as to endanger
public safety, or not constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance.
   I.   Stormwater, Ice Or Snow: The allowing of rainwater, ice, or snow to
fall from any building or structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow
across any sidewalk.
   J.   Barbed Wire Fence: Any barbed wire fence less than six feet (6') above
the ground and within three feet (3') of a public sidewalk or way.
   K.   Dangerous, Unguarded Machinery: All dangerous, unguarded machinery in
any public place, or so situated or operated on private property as to attract
the public.
   L.   Wastewater: Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or
other public property.
   M.   Accumulations: Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused
machinery, household appliances automobile bodies, or other material, in a
manner conducive to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or the rank
growth of vegetation among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating
fire, health, or safety hazards from such accumulation.
   N.   Well, Hole Or Similar Excavation: Any well, hole, or similar excavation
which is left uncovered or in such other condition as to constitute a hazard to
any child or other person coming on the premises where it is located.
   O.   Obstruction Of Free Flow: Obstruction to the free flow of water in a
natural waterway or a public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash or other
materials.
   P.   Harmful Objects; Placing Or Throwing: The placing or throwing on any
street, sidewalk, or other public property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles,
or other substance which may injure any person or animal or damage any
pneumatic tire when passing over such substance.
   Q.   Garbage Or Refuse: The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public
right of way or on adjacent private property.
   R.   Other Conditions: All other conditions or things which are likely to
cause injury to the person or property of anyone. (Ord. 5.1, 6-5-1984)
   S.   Depositing Of Snow: The depositing of snow upon any city street or
right of way except any right of way directly adjacent to the depositor's own
driveway. (Ord. 5.2, 3-6-2001)
4-1-5: DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS:
   A.   Building Inspector: The building inspector shall enforce the provisions
of this chapter relating to nuisances affecting public safety.
   B.   Police Department: The police department shall enforce provisions
relating to other nuisances and shall assist the other designated officers in
the enforcement of provisions relating to nuisances affecting public safety.
   C.   Power Of Officials: Such officers shall have the power to inspect
private premises and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission
and maintenance of public nuisances. (Ord. 5.1, 6-5-1984)
4-1-6: NOTICE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Nuisance Declared; Notice: Whenever the officer charged with
enforcement determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on
premises in the city, the officer shall notify, in writing, the owner or
occupant of the premises of such fact and order that such nuisance be
terminated and abated.
   B.   Service Of Notice:
      1.   Personal Service; Certified, Registered Mail: The notice shall be
served in person or by certified or registered mail.
      2.   Posting: If the premises are not occupied and the owner is unknown,
the notice may be served by posting it on the premises.
   C.   Contents Of Notice: The notice shall specify the steps to be taken to
abate the nuisance and the time, not exceeding thirty (30) days, within which
the nuisance is to be abated.
   D.   Failure To Comply: If the notice is not complied with within the time
specified, the enforcing officer shall report that fact forthwith to the
council.
   E.   Abatement By City; Hearing: Thereafter the council may, after notice to
the owner or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, provide for abating the
nuisance by the city. The notice shall be served in the same manner as notice
by the enforcing officer is served and shall be given at least ten (10) days
before the date stated in the notice when the council will consider the matter.
If notice is given by posting, at least thirty (30) days shall elapse between
the day of posting and the hearing. (Ord. 5.1, 6-5-1984)
4-1-7: RECOVERY OF COST:
   A.   Personal Liability: The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the city clerk or other official designated
by the council shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner.
Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the
city clerk.
   B.   Assessment: If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on
private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks, the
growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled portion of streets,
or unsound or insect infected trees, the clerk shall, on or before September 1
next following abatement of the nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along
with all other such charges as well as other charges for current services to be
assessed under Minnesota statutes section 429.101 against each separate lot or
parcel to which the charges are attributable. The council may then spread the
charges against such property under that statute and other pertinent statutes
for certification to the county auditor and collection along with current taxes
the following year or in annual installments not exceeding ten (10), as the
council may determine in each case. (Ord. 5.1, 6-5-1984)
4-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus the costs of prosecution. (Ord. 5.1, 6-5-1984; amd.
2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: General Regulations
4-2-3: Disposal Required
4-2-4: Containers
4-2-5: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases have the meaning given them in this section for
the purposes of this chapter:
GARBAGE: Organic waste resulting from the preparation of food and decayed and
spoiled food from any source.
RECYCLING CENTER: Premises within the city approved by the council for receipt,
storage, and processing of recyclables and premises outside the city approved
as a recycling center by the local unit of government having jurisdiction.
REFUSE: Includes garbage and rubbish, but shall not include sewage.
RUBBISH: Nongarbage solid waste such as tin cans, glass, paper, sweepings,
slippings, ash, etc. (Ord. 36, 7-3-1979; amd. Ord. 36.2, 8-19-1997)
4-2-2: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Unauthorized Accumulation: Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on
any premises is a nuisance and prohibited.
   B.   Refuse In Public Ways: No person shall place any refuse in any street,
alley, or public place or upon private property except in proper containers for
collection or other lawful disposal. No person shall throw or deposit refuse in
any stream or other body of water.
   C.   Scattering Of Refuse: No person shall deposit anywhere within the city
any refuse in such manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements
upon any public place or any other premises within the city.
   D.   Burying Of Refuse; Composting: No person shall bury any refuse in the
city except in an approved sanitary landfill. This provision does not prevent
anyone from composting leaves, grass clippings, and other easily biodegradable,
nonpoisonous garbage on his own premises. Composting of garbage shall be
allowed only when application has been made to and approval granted by the
council on a finding that such composting will be done in a rodentproof
structure and in an otherwise sanitary manner. (Ord. 36, 7-3-1979)
4-2-3: DISPOSAL REQUIRED:
Every person shall, in a sanitary manner, store and dispose of refuse that may
accumulate upon property owned or occupied by him in accordance with the terms
of this chapter. Garbage shall be collected or otherwise lawfully disposed of
at least once each week throughout the course of the year and such additional
collections or disposals in the case of business or commercial property as
necessary in order to maintain sanitary conditions and to otherwise comply with
the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 36, 7-3-1979)
4-2-4: CONTAINERS:
   A.   General Requirement: Every householder, occupant, or owner of any
residence and any restaurant, industrial establishment, or commercial
establishment shall provide, on the premises, one or more containers to receive
and contain all refuse which may accumulate between collections or other
disposal. All normal accumulations of refuse shall be deposited in such
containers except that leaves, trimmings from shrubs, grass clippings,
shavings, excelsior, and other rubbish of similar volume and weight may be
stored in closed containers not meeting the requirements of subsection B of
this section.
   B.   Container Requirements: Each container shall be watertight, shall be
impervious to insects and rodents, shall be fireproof, and shall not exceed
thirty three and one-third (331/3) gallons in capacity, except that any
commercial or business establishment having refuse volume exceeding two (2)
cubic yards per week shall provide bulk or box type refuse storage containers
of a type approved by the city. Containers shall be maintained in good and
sanitary condition. Any container not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter or having ragged or sharp edges or any other defect likely to hamper or
injure the person collecting the contents shall be promptly replaced after
notice by the city. (Ord. 36, 7-3-1979; amd. 2002 Code)
4-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Such penalty may be imposed in addition to suspension or
revocation of license. (Ord. 36, 7-3-1979)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Statute Adopted; City May Be More Restrictive
4-3-4: Prohibited Burning
4-3-5: Open Burning Prohibited Except By Permit
4-3-6: Open Burning Permits
4-3-7: Permit Holder Responsibility
4-3-8: Revocation Of Permit
4-3-9: Burning Ban Or Air Quality Alert
4-3-10: Penalty
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate open burning within the city of
Baxter, to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. Through passage of
this chapter, the designated fire official is hereby authorized to adopt and
impose burning restrictions to aid in the prevention of wildfire and to consult
with the department of natural resources (DNR), division of forestry to develop
any restrictions or other criteria. (Ord. 2016-005, 2-2-2016)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms in this section have the meanings
given them, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
DESIGNATED FIRE OFFICIAL: The fire chief, fire marshal, city fire warden, or
other designee who provides fire protection or public safety services to the
city.
LEAF BURNING MAP: A map adopted by the city council depicting property located
within the city of Baxter where the conducting of leaf burning is identified as
either allowed or not allowed.
OPEN BURNING: The burning of any matter if the resulting combustion products
are emitted directly into the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct,
or chimney, except a "recreational fire" as defined herein. Mobile cooking
devices such as charcoal grills, wood smokers, manufactured hibachis, and
propane or natural gas devices are not considered open burning devices.
RECREATIONAL FIRE: A fire set with an approved starter fuel no more than three
feet (3') in diameter by three feet (3') high contained within a recreational
fire site: using dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor, or
soot beyond the property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all
times; for recreational, ceremonial, or social food preparation; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans, and air quality requirements so that nuisance, health,
or safety hazards will not be created. A campfire is a type of recreational
fire. No more than one recreational fire is allowed on any property at one
time.
RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE: An area of no more than a three foot (3') diameter
circle (as measured from the inside of the fire ring or border): either natural
rock, cement, brick, tile, blocks, or ferrous metal. Burning barrels are not a
recreational fire site. Recreational fire sites shall not be located closer
than twenty five feet (25') to any structure or combustible material.
RUNNING FIRE: An attended fire allowed to spread through surface vegetative
matter under controlled conditions for the purpose of vegetative management,
forest management, game habitat management, or agricultural improvement.
SNOW COVERED: The ground has a continuous, unbroken cover of snow to a depth of
three inches (3") or more, surrounding the immediate area of the fire
sufficient to keep the fire from spreading.
STARTER FUELS: Dry, untreated, or unpainted kindling, branches, or charcoal
fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as starter fuels and
as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas burning
devices causing minimal pollution may be used to start an open burn.
VEGETATIVE MATERIALS: Dry leaves, dry grass clippings, twigs, branches, tree
limbs, untreated or unpainted wood that contains no glues or resins, and other
similar materials. Paper and cardboard are not considered vegetative materials.
WOOD: Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, manufactured
fireplace logs, charcoal, cordwood or untreated dimensional lumber. "Wood" does
not include wood that is green, with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil
soaked, or treated with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used
for recreational fires when cut into less than three foot (3') lengths. (Ord.
2016-005, 2-2-2016)
4-3-3: STATUTE ADOPTED; CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE:
   A.   Statute Adopted: Minnesota statutes chapter 88, as may be amended from
time to time, with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of
operation, permits, and all other matters pertaining to open burning is hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth
herein. It is the intention of the city council that all future amendments of
Minnesota statutes chapter 88, are hereby adopted by reference as if they had
been in existence at the time this chapter was adopted.
   B.   City May Be More Restrictive Than State Law: The council is authorized
to impose, and has imposed in this chapter, additional restrictions on open
burning within its limits beyond those contained in Minnesota statutes chapter
88, as it may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 2016-005, 2-2-2016)
4-3-4: PROHIBITED BURNING:
   A.   Excessive Or Noxious Smoke: No person shall conduct, cause or permit
open burning of oils; petroleum fuels; rubber; plastics; chemically treated
materials; or other materials which produce excessive or noxious smoke such as,
but not limited to: tires; railroad ties; treated, painted or glued wood
composite shingles; tarpaper; insulation; composition board; sheetrock; wiring;
paint or paint filters.
   B.   Hazardous Waste; Industrial And Commercial Waste; Building Demolition
Materials: No person shall conduct, cause, or permit the open burning of:
hazardous waste or materials from salvage operations; solid waste generated
from an industrial or manufactured process; materials from a service or
commercial establishment; or building materials generated from demolition of
commercial or institutional structures.
   C.   Food Waste: No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of
discarded materials resulting from the handling, processing, storage,
preparation, serving or consumption of food.
   D.   Burners: "Burners" as currently defined in Minnesota statutes shall not
be allowed within the city limits.
   E.   Leaves: No person shall conduct the burning of leaves in areas not
identified as approved leaf burning areas as established/identified on the leaf
burning map adopted by the city council. Leaf burning shall only be allowed
between September 15 and December 1. (Ord. 2016-005, 2-2-2016)
4-3-5: OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED EXCEPT BY PERMIT:
No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burning permit, except a permit is not
required for any fire which is a "recreational fire" or if the ground is "snow
covered" as defined in section
4-3-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-005, 2-2-2016)
4-3-6: OPEN BURNING PERMITS:
   A.   Permitted Open Burning:
      1.   Under special or extraordinary circumstances, open burning permits
may be issued by the fire chief or by a DNR forestry official for:
         a.   Elimination of a health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means, as determined by the commissioner of the department of health
or the local health authority.
         b.   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction.
         c.   Running fires.
         d.   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie, or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights of
way where chipping, composting, land spreading, or other alternative methods
are not practical.
         e.   Disposal of diseased trees generated on site, diseased or
infested nursery stock, or diseased beehives.
         f.   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, nonglued lumber and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal, or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical.
      2.   Fire training permits may only be issued by the DNR.
      3.   Permits for the operation of a permanent tree and brush burning site
may only be issued by the DNR.
   B.   Permit Application: Open burning permits shall be obtained by making
application on a form prescribed by the DNR on the DNR's website or through the
Brainerd fire department.
   C.   Permit Process: The applicant shall demonstrate to the designated fire
official the ability to comply with the applicable state statutes, this
chapter, or any additional regulations that may be adopted.
   D.   Denial Of Permit:
      1.   If the established criteria for the issuance of an open burning
permit are not met, the application will be denied.
      2.   Even if the established criteria for the issuance of an open burning
permit are met, if it is determined that a practical alternative method for
disposal exists, a pollution or nuisance condition would result, or if a burn
event safety plan cannot be drafted to the satisfaction of the designated fire
official, the application may be denied. (Ord. 2016-005, 2-2-2016)
4-3-7: PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Confirm No Ban Or Alert: Prior to starting an open burn, the permit
holder shall be responsible for confirming that no burning ban or air quality
alert is in effect.
   B.   Communication And Fire Suppression Equipment: The open burning site
shall have appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment available.
   C.   Attendance; Extinguished; Valid Permit On Site: The open burn shall be
attended to at all times. No fire may ever be allowed to smolder. The fire
shall be completely extinguished before the permit holder or his or her
representative leaves the site. It is the responsibility of the permit holder
to have a valid permit, as required by this chapter, available for inspection
on site by law enforcement, the fire department, a Minnesota pollution control
agency (MPCA) representative or DNR officer.
   D.   Compliance: The permit holder is responsible for compliance and
implementation of all general conditions, special conditions, and guidelines as
established in the issued permit. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including, but not limited to, fire
suppression and administrative fees. (Ord. 2016-005, 2-2-2016)
4-3-8: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of a DNR
officer, a fire warden, law enforcement officer, or the fire chief. Reasons for
revocation include, but are not limited to: a fire hazard existing or
developing during the course of the burn; any of the permit conditions being
violated during the course of the burn; pollution or nuisance conditions
developing during the course of the burn; a fire smoldering with no flame
present; or no attendant being present at the fire. (Ord. 2016-005, 2-2-2016)
4-3-9: BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT:
   A.   The designated fire official is authorized to determine when conditions
make open burning potentially hazardous and declare a burning ban within the
city.
   B.   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or
the DNR has officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire
conditions or when the MPCA has declared an air quality alert. (Ord. 2016-005,
2-2-2016)
4-3-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine and/or imprisonment. (Ord.
2016-005, 2-2-2016)
CHAPTER 4
REGULATING GROWTH OF TALL GRASS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Noxious Weeds
4-4-3: Conversion To Turf
4-4-4: Exceptions
4-4-5: Standards For Native Prairie And Forest Restoration
4-4-6: Notice Of Public Nuisance; Abatement; Assessment
4-4-7: Appeal Of Notice
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
GARDEN: A cultivated area dedicated to growing vegetables, fruits, flowers,
ornamental grasses, ground covers, shrubs and similar plants that were planted
in a well defined location.
IDLE ACREAGE OR UNDEVELOPED PLATTED LOT: Areas or a platted lot awaiting
development where the vegetation may have been altered but not converted to
turf.
NATIVE FOREST REMNANT AREA: A native plant landscape area consisting of
indigenous forest plants predominantly nonherbaceous that was purposely left to
grow in a natural state and can maintain itself in a stable condition with
minimal human intervention. Naturally occurring, noninvasive, noxious weeds
such as poison ivy may be allowed to remain and vegetative management and
removal of dead or diseased trees are allowed.
NATIVE FOREST RESTORATION AREA: A native plant landscape area which is being
restored to indigenous forest plants which are predominantly nonherbaceous. A
native forest restoration area does not include gardens.
NATIVE PLANTS: Those grasses, sedges, forbs, trees and shrubs that are plant
species native to or naturalized to the state of Minnesota, excluding
prohibited exotic species, as defined by Minnesota statutes chapter 84D. Native
plants do not include weeds.
NATIVE PRAIRIE RESTORATION AREA: A native plant landscape area which is being
restored to indigenous prairie or grassland plants which are predominantly
herbaceous. A native prairie restoration area does not include gardens.
ORNAMENTAL GRASSES: Grasses that are not indigenous to Minnesota that are
intended to add beauty to a garden. Ornamental grasses do not include turf
grasses or weeds.
TURF GRASS: Commercially available cultured turf grass varieties, including
bluegrass, fescue and ryegrass blends, commonly used in regularly cut lawn
areas.
WEEDS: A. Noxious weeds as defined and designated pursuant to Minnesota
statutes sections 18.76-18.88, as amended, or
   B.   Any volunteer plants as may be listed by the city weed inspector as
prohibited plants, said list being available at city hall. (Ord. 2009-9, 5-19-
2009)
4-4-2: NOXIOUS WEEDS:
Noxious weeds must be eradicated in all areas of the city according to state
law unless otherwise provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 2009-9, 5-19-2009)
4-4-3: CONVERSION TO TURF:
Once an area has been converted to turf grass, the owner or occupant shall not
allow the turf grass to exceed the height of seven inches (7") or be allowed to
go to seed. Also, other than in the F (Commercial Forest) or RS (Special
Residential/Cluster) District, no owner or occupant shall allow any herbaceous
vegetation growing upon the adjacent City right-of-way to grow to a height
greater than seven inches (7") or to allow such vegetation to go to seed except
as otherwise permitted herein. (Ord. 2009-9, 5-19-2009)
4-4-4: EXCEPTIONS:
Provided the vegetation does not obstruct, block or impede any visual
sightlines or signs required to ensure safe and efficient vehicular traffic
upon City streets, the provisions of section
4-4-2 of this chapter shall not apply to vegetation that is located:
   A.   On slopes equal to or steeper than three feet (3') horizontal to one
foot (1') vertical.
   B.   In a conservation easement.
   C.   In a garden.
   D.   In City park lands.
   E.   In a floodplain area designated on the official zoning map.
   F.   Within drainage ponds or ditches designed to meet City stormwater
conveyance requirements.
   G.   Within wetlands.
   H.   In native forest remnant areas.
   I.   In native forest or prairie restoration areas provided the standards in
this section are met.
   J.   Within idle acreage or undeveloped platted lots provided they are mowed
twice a year - once between June 1 and June 15 and once between September 1 and
September 15. (Ord. 2009-9, 5-19-2009)
4-4-5: STANDARDS FOR NATIVE PRAIRIE AND FOREST RESTORATION:
   A.   Setbacks From Lot Lines:
      1.   Not less than ten feet (10') from the front lot line. For the
purposes of this chapter, corner lots shall be deemed to have two (2) front
yards and on riparian lots no setback is required on the lakeside lot line.
      2.   Not less than five feet (5') from the side and rear lot lines. No
such setback is required if there is an opaque fence along said lot line or if
the native plants abut a neighboring native plant landscape.
      3.   If the proposed native prairie or forest restoration area is
replacing existing sod/turf, the natural area shall not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the sod/turf area.
   B.   Allowed Ground Cover In Setback: The setback area required in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section shall be composed of regularly mowed turf
grass, gardens, trees, shrubs, wood chips and/or rock.
   C.   Plan Approval: A plan setting forth the site layout and management of
the restoration area which is in compliance with section
10-4-8 of this Code must be submitted by the applicant and approved by the
Zoning Administrator before any native areas may be planted. The Zoning
Administrator may refer the plan to the City Council for recommendation before
taking action. (Ord. 2017-007, 8-1-2017)
4-4-6: NOTICE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Failure to comply with the regulations set forth
herein shall constitute a nuisance and the officer charged with the enforcement
shall notify, in writing, both the owner and occupant, if different, of such
fact and order the nuisance to be terminated and abated.
   B.   Required Notification: The officer charged with enforcement shall
notify both the owner and occupant, if different, by one of the following:
personal service; certified or registered mail; or by posting the property if
the premises are not occupied and the owner is unknown.
   C.   Contents Of Notice: The notice shall specify the measures that are
necessary to abate the nuisance and the time to abate said nuisance but not to
exceed thirty (30) days.
   D.   Failure To Comply: If nuisance is not abated in the time specified, the
enforcing officer shall report that fact to the City Council.
   E.   Abatement By City; Hearing: Upon receiving a report of a failure to
comply in subsection D of this section, the City Council may, after notice to
the owner and/or occupant, schedule a hearing on the matter. Notice of the
hearing shall be served on both the owner and occupant, if different, by one of
the methods set forth in subsection B of this section. Said notice shall be
given at least ten (10) days before the hearing and indicate that the owner
and/or occupant shall have an opportunity to be heard. If the notice is by
posting the property, at least thirty (30) days shall elapse between the day of
the posting and the hearing.
   F.   Recovery Of Costs: All abatement costs, including administrative, shall
be billed to the property owner by regular mail. The amount shall be
immediately due and payable to the City.
   G.   Delinquencies: Billings in default shall be charged a ten percent (10%)
surcharge thereon, plus additional late fees shall be assessed every monthly
billing period thereafter using the same calculation and an additional fee
shall be assessed if the City has to certify the delinquent fee to the County
for collection with Real Estate Taxes. In addition, the City reserves the right
to delegate the collection of delinquent accounts to collection agencies under
contract with the City, bring civil action, or collect by any other remedy
available at law.
   H.   Lien Assessment: Charges levied by and pursuant to this chapter are
hereby made a lien upon the lot, land, or premises served, and all such charges
which are past due and delinquent, shall be certified to the City Clerk, who
shall prepare an assessment roll providing for assessment of the delinquent
amount against the respective property served. The assessment roll shall be
delivered to the City Council for adoption after due notice is given by mail to
the affected property owner. Upon such adoption, the Clerk shall certify the
assessment roll to the County auditor for collection along with taxes as
authorized under Minnesota Statutes section 18.83 after the City Council holds
a public hearing regarding the proposed assessment. To appeal this assessment,
the property owner must present a written objection to the assessment at said
public hearing and then file a District Court action in Crow Wing County within
thirty (30) days of said public hearing. (Ord. 2009-9, 5-19-2009)
4-4-7: APPEAL OF NOTICE:
Any person aggrieved by an order from the City to cut grass and/or weeds on his
or her property may appeal same to the City by filing a written request for a
hearing with the City Clerk Office within five (5) days following service of
the notice to cut. The Council shall hear the appeal after advising the
appellant of the date, time and place of such meeting and shall thereafter
render its decision. (Ord. 2009-9, 5-19-2009)
CHAPTER 5
CANNABIS PUBLIC USE
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Jurisdiction
4-5-3: Prohibited Acts
4-5-4: Penalty
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The following words, terms,
and phrases, when used in this ordinance, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
ADULT-USE      Cannabis flower that is approved for sale by the State of Minnesota or is
CANNABIS       substantially similar to a product approved by the State of Minnesota. Adult-use
FLOWER:        cannabis flower does not include medical cannabis flower, hemp plant parts, or
               hemp-derived consumer products.
ADULT-USE      A cannabis product that is approved for sale by the State of Minnesota or is
CANNABIS       substantially similar to a product approved by the State of Minnesota. Adult-use
PRODUCTS:      cannabis product includes edible cannabis products but does not include medical
               cannabinoid products or lower-potency hemp edibles.
               The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a cannabis plant. Cannabis flower
CANNABIS       includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical cannabis flower.
FLOWER:        Cannabis flower does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant parts, or hemp-derived
               consumer products.
               Any of the following:
               (1)   Cannabis concentrate;
CANNABIS       (2)   A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited to
PRODUCT:       tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
               flower; or
               (3)   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
               (1)   A product intended for human or animal consumption, does not contain
               cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and: (i) contains or consists of hemp
HEMP DERIVED   plant parts; or (ii) contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived
CONSUMER       cannabinoids in combination with other ingredients.
PRODUCTS:      (2)   Hemp-derived consumer products does not include artificially derived
               cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical products, hemp
               fiber products, or hemp grain.
               Any product that:
               (1)   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
               (2)   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived cannabinoid; in
               combination with food ingredients;
               (3)   Is not a drug;
               (4)   Consists of servings that contain no more than five milligrams of delta-
               9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabidiol, 25 milligrams of
               cannabigerol, or any combination of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the
LOWER-POTENCY  identified amounts;
HEMP EDIBLE:   (5)   Does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of all other
               cannabinoids per serving;
               (6)   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than delta-
               9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
               (7)   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
               flower; and
               (8)   Is a type of product approved for sale by the State of Minnesota or is
               substantially similar to a product approved by the State of Minnesota, including
               but not limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and
               baked goods.
               A business, refreshment, entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of
               any kind, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or
               accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
               public.
               Exceptions to public place or place of public accommodation. "A public place" or
PLACE OF       "a place of public accommodation" does not include the following:
PUBLIC         (1)   A private residence, including the individual's curtilage or yard.
ACCOMMODATION: (2)   A private property, not generally accessible by the public, unless the
               individual is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower, cannabis
               products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products on the
               property by the owner of the property; or
               (3)   On the premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit on-site
               consumption.
               A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk, any enclosed, indoor area used
               by the general public, including, but not limited to, theaters, restaurants,
PUBLIC PLACE:  bars, food establishments, places licensed to sell intoxicating liquor, wine, or
               malt beverages, retail businesses, gyms, common areas in buildings, public
               shopping areas, auditoriums, arenas, or other places of public accommodation.
               Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated cigar, cigarette,
               pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing cannabis flower, cannabis
SMOKING:       products, artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-derived consumer products.
               Smoking includes carrying or using an activated electronic delivery device for
               human consumption through inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product. (Ord.
               2023-021, 10-17-2023)
 
4-5-2: JURISDICTION:
This chapter shall be applicable within the legal boundaries of the City of
Baxter. (Ord. 2023-021, 10-17-2023)
4-5-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency
hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place or a place of
public accommodation unless the premises is an establishment or an event
licensed to permit on-site consumption of adult-use cannabis flower and adult
use cannabis products. See State Legislation Article 4, Sec. 19, Minn. Stat.
152.0263, Subd. 5, or successor statute.
   B.   No person shall vaporize or smoke cannabis flower, cannabis products,
artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-derived consumer products in any
location where the smoke, aerosol, or vapor would be inhaled by a minor. See
State Legislation Article 1, Sec. 9 Minn. Stat. 342.09, Subd. 1(b)(9) or
successor statute. (Ord. 2023-021, 10-17-2023)
4-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2023-021, 10-17-2023)
CHAPTER 6
CAMPING
SECTION:
4-6-1: Purpose
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: Prohibition
4-6-4: Criminal Penalty
4-6-5: Prioritization Of Enforcement
4-6-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Settlements of unhoused individuals (also known as “encampments”) in
public spaces is a growing social, public safety, and environmental concern
faced by cities of all sizes, including Baxter. The dynamics of homelessness,
both short and longer term, are extremely complex, reflecting a wide range of
contributing factors.
   B.   Historically, in Baxter, encampments tend to result in accumulation of
garbage and human waste, which created a health hazard and can contaminate the
ground and water. Other typical hazards include drug paraphernalia (e.g.,
needles) and unchecked fires associated with cooking, ofter involving explosive
fuels. Encampments are also prone to a heightened physical safety and property
risk for those in the encampments as well as those who may be present in the
same area. Encampments also tend to cause damage or disruption to the soil and
forested areas.
   C.   Many in the community, including public and private entities, have
responded to the needs of those experiencing housing instability, providing
significant levels of resources and services.
   D.   In addition to the city’s efforts to connect unhoused individuals with
resources and services, the city also has an obligation to make best efforts to
provide a safe and clean environment for other members of the community    who
want or need to use public spaces. Access to parks, trails, schools, green
spaces, public transportation, and the protection of public utilities and
infrastructure is a community good for all.
   E.   While many unhoused individuals are able to exist in a space that does
not cause public disruption, it is also true that many encampments do create
sigificant harms, for both the unhoused individuals as well as members of the
public attempting to use the same spaces. Law enforcement personnel, who have
had primary responsibility for responding to encampment areas, need to be
supported with effective tools to address these complex situations. Encampments
and unsheltered individuals who create the most social harm cannot be ignored
or just moved from one (1) space to the next. (Ord. 2024-016, 11-6-2024)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
CAMP:                To set up, or to remain in or at a campsite.
                     Any place where any tent, lean-to, shack, or other
                     structure, any vehicle or part thereof, or any bedding,
CAMPSITE:            sleeping bag, or other sleeping matter, or any stove or
                     fire is placed, established, or maintained for the purpose
                     of establishing or maintaining a temporary place to live.
CITY:                Refers to the City of Baxter, Minnesota.
                     The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway,
                     street, cartway, bicycle lane or public sidewalk in which
                     the city has an interest, including other dedicated
                     rights-of-way for travel purposes and utility easements of
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: the city. A right-of-way does not include the airwaves
                     above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other
                     nonwire telecommunications or broadcast service. Public
                     right-of-way includes outlots, parks, and drainage and
                     utility easements. (Ord. 2024-016, 11-6-2024)
 
4-6-3: PROHIBITION:
   A.   No person shall camp in or upon any public property or public right-of-
way in the city except in any location where camping has been expressly allowed
by the officer or agency having the control, management and supervision of the
public property or public right-of-way in question.
   B.   No person shall camp upon any private property in the city without the
express written consent of the property owner or the owner’s agent, and only in
such locations where camping may be conducted in accordance with any other
applicable city law.
   C.   Any camping or campsite materials or personal property associated with
a camping area that is in violation of this chapter may be removed and disposed
of or cleaned up and disposed of by the city or its designated contractors. The
city will continue to utilize encampment protocols that will provide notice
(verbal or in writing), and a reasonable period of time (generally a maximum of
forty-eight (48) hours) for persons to access available services and seek
shelter options. (Ord. 2024-016, 11-6-2024)
4-6-4: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
   A.   Any violation of this chapter is deemed a misdemeanor, as defined in
Minnesota Statute § 609.02, subd. 3, currently a crime for which a sentence of
no more than ninety (90) days or a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000), or both, may be imposed.
   B.   No person may be prosecuted under this chapter unless:
      1.   The person has been informed of the various charitable and social
services available to the person, including shelter options as well as daytime
services; and
      2.   The person has been warned that their conduct is a violation of this
chapter subject to criminal prosecution. An individual who has been warned and
then relocates to another space that a reasonable person would understand is
also covered by this chapter is not entitled to a new warning. (Ord. 2024-016,
11-6-2024)
4-6-5: PRIORITIZATION OF ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Recognizing that enforcement resources are insufficient to cover all
included spaces at all times, prioritization will be given to the following
spaces:
      1.   In, or within one hundred (100) feet of, a city park.
      2.   Within two hundred fifty (250) feet of a preschool, kindergarten,
elementary or secondary school, or a licensed childcare center.
      3.   The area of the sidewalk or trail corridor on city sidewalks
intended for pedestrian travel or access to public transit.
      4.   Upon or within two hundred fifty (250) feet of a lot or parcel
containing electric utility substation or electric power generation facility.
      5.   Upon or within two hundred fifty (250) feet of a lot of parcel
containing a water utility pumping facility or water storage facility.
      6.   Areas posted as no-trespassing by authorized city personnel. (Ord.
2024-016, 11-6-2024)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Disorderly Conduct
5-1-2: Prostitution; Indecent Conduct
5-1-3: Drugs
5-1-4: Hunting Regulations And The Discharge Of Firearms
5-1-5: Trespassing And Loitering On Business/Municipal Parking Lots And Private
Business Premises
5-1-6: Penalty
5-1-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
Whoever does any of the following in a public or private place, knowing, or
having reasonable grounds to know, that it will, or will tend to, alarm, anger
or disturb others or provoke an assault or breach of the peace, is guilty of
disorderly conduct: (Ord. 22, 8-15-1972; amd. 2002 Code)
   A.   Engages in brawling or fighting; or
   B.   Disturbs an assembly or meeting not unlawful in its character; or
   C.   Engages in offensive, obscene, or abusive language or in boisterous and
noisy conduct tending reasonably to arouse alarm, anger or resentment in
others. (Ord. 22, 8-15-1972)
5-1-2: PROSTITUTION; INDECENT CONDUCT:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    PROSTITUTION: Engaging, offering or agreeing to engage for hire in sexual
intercourse or sodomy.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Buildings or parts of buildings and premises, whether publicly
or privately owned, which are used by the general public or to which the
general public is invited commercially or in or on which the general public is
permitted without specific invitation.
   SEXUAL INTERCOURSE: Sexual penetration, however slight.
   SODOMY: Carnally knowing any person by the anus or by or with the mouth.
   B.   Prostitution: No person shall, in any public or private place, engage
in, offer to or agree to submit his or her body for hire for the purpose of
sexual intercourse and/or sodomy.
   C.   Indecent Conduct: No person, in any public place, shall engage in or
offer or attempt to engage in:
      1.   Lewd, lascivious or immoral conduct;
      2.   Slanderous, foul, obscene, or indecent language;
      3.   Indecent or lascivious exposure or use of the human body, or any
part thereof;
      4.   Behavior, whether by words or acts, of a nature to corrupt the
public morals or to outrage the sense of public decency; or
      5.   Fondling the unclothed genitals of himself or herself or another
person.
   D.   Pandering: No person, in any public place, shall entice or attempt to
entice another to engage in unlawful sexual intercourse, prostitution, or any
lewd, lascivious or indecent act.
   E.   Peeping: No person shall look into any opening to a toilet or dressing
room in a public place for an indecent, immoral or unlawful purpose.
   F.   Loitering: No person shall loiter in a public place for the purpose of
inducing, enticing or procuring another to commit any crime or unlawful act.
   G.   Violation: Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 59, 7-20-1993)
5-1-3: DRUGS:
   A.   Possession, Distribution, Etc., Restricted: No person shall possess,
sell, distribute, administer, dispense or prescribe any cocaine or opium or any
of their derivatives (hereinafter called "drugs") except as provided in
subsection B of this section.
   B.   Compliance With Federal Law: Any manufacturer, wholesaler, apothecary,
physician, dentist, veterinarian, public or private hospital, sanitarium or
institution maintained or conducted in whole or in part for the treatment of
disability or disease or inebriety or drug addiction, may purchase, receive,
possess, sell, distribute, prescribe, administer, or dispense such drugs
provided he shall have complied with all the provisions and requirements of the
act of congress of December 17, 1914, known as the Harrison narcotic law, as
the same exists and may be amended.
   C.   Possession Of Injection Implements: No person, except dealers in
surgical instruments, apothecaries, physicians, dentists, veterinarians,
nurses, attendants and interns of hospitals, sanitariums or any other
institutions in which persons are treated for disability or disease shall at
any time have or possess any hypodermic syringe or needle or any instrument or
implement adapted for the use of cocaine or narcotic drugs by subcutaneous
injection and which is possessed for that purpose unless such possession be
authorized by the certificate of a physician issued within a period of one year
to any time of possession.
   D.   Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia: No person shall use, possess or have
under his control for use any stem, bowl, lamp, yen hock, marijuana, hashish,
cannabis, or other opium smoking paraphernalia or accessories used for the
smoking or inhalation of opium.
   E.   Exceptions: The provisions of subsections A through D of this section
shall not apply to common carriers or warehousemen or their employees engaged
in the lawful distribution or storage of the drugs and materials mentioned in
such subsections, or to public officers or employees while engaged in the
performance of their official duties, or to the temporary incidental possession
thereof by employees or agents of persons lawfully entitled to such possession.
   F.   Menace To Public Welfare: Any possession, sale, distribution,
prescription, administration, dispensation or use of such drugs, injection or
use of such drugs, injection implements, or opium smoking paraphernalia
contrary to the provisions of this section is hereby declared to be dangerous
to the public health and a menace to the public welfare.
   G.   Fraudulent Receipt Of Drugs: No person shall fraudulently obtain any
such drugs by any receipt, misrepresentation, subterfuge or concealment of
material fact or the use of a false name or address in order to obtain
treatment in the course of which such drugs may be prescribed. (Ord. 26, 11-21-
1973; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1-4: HUNTING REGULATIONS AND THE DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
   A.   Statute Authority: This section is passed pursuant to the general
authority granted to statutory cities to regulate the health, safety and
general welfare, as well as nuisances, under Minnesota statutes section
412.221, and in addition more specifically under Minnesota statutes section
471.633 whereby the state legislature has authorized municipalities to regulate
the discharge of firearms.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section:
 
ARROW:   A slender shaft, pointed at one end, or designed to have a pointed
         head or tip attached, and feathered at the other end.
         A flexible, curved strip of wood, metal, fiberglass, plastic, or other
BOW:     material, with a cord connecting the two (2) ends, designed to shoot
         arrows. This definition includes a device popularly known as a
         crossbow.
FIREARM: All rifles, shotguns, handguns, and firearms using smokeless or black
         powder.
 
   C.   Discharge Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a rifle or handgun
within the city limits.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm except
in conformance with state and federal statutes and as outlined in subsection G
of this section.
      3.   Any discharge of firearms or firearms hunting within five hundred
feet (500') of a dwelling or occupied building is not allowed.
   D.   Exception: This section shall not apply to police officers or
authorized law enforcement officers or personnel when using firearms during
performance of their duties.
   E.   Permit Required: Hunting: Individuals must first obtain a permit from
the Chief of Police, or designee, to hunt any game within the city limits.
Permits will be issued for a period of time which will correspond to the game
season requested as established by the MN Department of Natural Resources.
   F.   Hunting Permits:
      1.   Firearms: Issued to individuals who will be using either a shotgun
or muzzleloader to hunt game within the city limits.
      2.   Archery: Issued to individuals who will be using a bow and arrow or
a crossbow to hunt game within the city limits.
      3.   Managed Archery: Issued to individuals who will be using either a
bow and arrow or a crossbow to hunt game within specially designated hunting
areas of the city.
      These areas are identified on the City of Baxter Hunting Map as "Managed
Archery". Hunting on these properties will require individuals to obtain
additional certification prior to the issuance of the permit. (See Section H-
Permit Areas Defined.)
   G.   Lawful Use: This subsection defines lawful use of firearms in the city.
      1.   Legal Game: Use of a shotgun or a muzzle load for hunting of game is
allowed in areas designated by the city council on the city hunting map and in
conformance with hunting seasons and regulations set by the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources. Permits are issued on an individual basis only
to holders of a valid big game hunting license, and only for a period that the
license is valid. The applicant must own the property on which such activities
will take place or have written permission on their person from the property
owner.
      2.   Small Game: Use of a shotgun and shot for hunting small game is
allowed in areas designated by the city council on the city hunting map and in
conformance with holders of a valid big game or small game hunting license, and
only for a period that the license is valid. The applicant must own the
property on which such activities will take place or have written permission on
their person from the property owner.
   H.   Archery Regulations: Use of a bow an arrow for hunting is allowed in
the city in areas designated by the city council on the city hunting map and in
conformance with hunting seasons and regulations set by the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources. Permits are issued on an individual basis only
to holders of a valid small game hunting license, and only for a period that
the license is valid. The applicant must own the property on which such
activities will take place or have written permission on their person from the
property owner.
      Target practice using a bow and arrow is allowed on your own property or
on private property with written permission from the owner. Permission must be
in possession of the person at the time the activity is occurring. All target
practice activity must be conducted in a safe manner so as not to endanger or
risk injury to others. A permit is not required for archery target practice.
   I.   Hunting Map: The City of Baxter shall have a hunting map in which
defined areas are to be established. The defined areas shall stipulate what
type of weapons can be used in those specific areas and if any additional
certifications or requirements are in place. For the areas in which hunting is
permitted, the hunter must have a valid MN DNR hunting license prior to
application for a permit. The defined hunting areas in the City of Baxter are:
      1.   No Hunting: Areas within the city in which no hunting is approved.
      2.   Archery: Areas within the city in which archery hunting is
permitted. On the city hunting map these areas include those areas defined as
archery, shotgun or muzzleloader.
      3.   Managed Archery: Areas within the city in which archery hunting is
permitted to hunters who have completed both a proficiency test and the
bowhunter education certificate issued by the MN DNR.
         a.   Proficiency Test: Hunters must demonstrate competency by
completing a proficiency test at an identified location. These locations will
be posted on the City of Baxter website. For successful completion of the
proficiency test, hunters will be given two (2) attempts to successfully shoot
four (4) out of five (5) arrows into a target approved and provided by the
Baxter Police Department. Sample targets will be available on the city website.
         b.   Bowhunter Education Certificate: This is a MN DNR approved test
that can be completed online or in person. This course should be completed
prior to the proficiency test.
      4.   Shotgun: Areas within the city in which hunting with a shotgun is
permitted. On the city hunting map these areas include both the shotgun and
muzzleloader defined areas.
      5.   Muzzleloader: Areas within the city in which hunting with a
muzzleloader is permitted. On the city hunting map these areas are defined as
muzzleloader areas.
   J.   Reporting Requirements: All big game successfully taken in the City of
Baxter shall be registered on the city website following the harvest of an
animal. A link will be available on the city website for this registration.
   K.   Penalty: Violation of any provision of this section or usage of
firearms in violation of Minnesota statutes or Minnesota department of natural
resources regulations/rules shall result in revocation of any permit and
forfeiture of issuance of future permits for a five (5) year period. Any person
violating any provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2009-
14, 8-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-014, 7-16-2019; Ord. 2023-010, 7-18-2023)
5-1-5: TRESPASSES AND LOITERING ON BUSINESS/MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS AND PRIVATE
BUSINESS PREMISES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the words and phrases, except
where the text clearly indicates otherwise, mean:
    BUSINESS/MUNICIPAL PARKING LOT: Any parking lot adjacent to or in the
immediate vicinity of any store, restaurant, gasoline station, public or
private office building, commercial building, industrial facility, movie
theater, or any other facility which provides free parking for the use and
convenience of employees, customers, patrons, guests or invitees.
   OWNER: An owner or other person lawfully in charge of a business parking
lot, including any person authorized by the owner to exercise rights granted
the owner by law.
   PRIVATE BUSINESS PREMISES: Any lands or buildings, or any part thereof,
owned or occupied by any store, restaurant, office, factory, church, theater or
any other business, whether for profit or not for profit.
   B.   Use Restricted: No person shall drive any vehicle across, through,
into, or out of any business/municipal parking lot in the city except for the
purpose of:
      1.   Parking immediately prior to transacting business at a place of
business; attending church services; attending a lodge or club activity;
attending a movie; attending a promotional event, fair or parade; shopping or
patronizing a facility open to the public adjacent to or in the immediate
vicinity of a business/municipal parking lot;
      2.   Leaving after parking;
      3.   Leaving a passenger to transact business at a place of business;
attending church services; attending a lodge or club activity; attending a
movie; attending a promotional event, fair or parade; shopping, or patronizing
a facility open to the public adjacent to or in the immediate vicinity of a
business/municipal parking lot;
      4.   Picking up a passenger; or
      5.   Parking while employed at a business in the immediate vicinity.
   C.   Loitering Prohibited: Except for the permitted purposes stated in
subsection B of this section, no person shall loiter, linger, remain, sit or
stand in any business/municipal parking lot, or private business premises, when
prohibited by the owner of a business parking lot or private business premises
as expressed by a sign posted on the premises pursuant to subsection E of this
section, nor shall any person remain in a business/municipal parking lot or
private business premises after being ordered to leave the lot by the owner or
authorized agent.
   D.   Trespassing:
      1.   Prohibited:
         a.   No person shall enter or stay on any business/municipal parking
lot or private business premises without claim of right or consent of the
lawful possessor during such hours as entry is prohibited by conspicuously
posted signs; or
         b.   No person shall enter upon the land of another and, without claim
or right, refuse to depart therefrom on demand of the lawful possessor or their
agent.
      2.   Demand To Depart: A demand to depart may be made orally or by
posting, at reasonable intervals, signs which prohibit trespassing or loitering
on the affected land. Any city police officer may be appointed an agent of the
lawful possessor of land for the purpose of making a demand to depart
therefrom.
   E.   Signs Prohibiting Trespassing And Loitering: The prohibitions set out
in subsections C and D of this section shall be in effect at any business/
municipal lot or private business premises where the owner has posted a sign as
provided in those subsections, on the premises, which are visible to an
ordinarily prudent individual.
      1.   With reference to subsections B and C of this section, each sign
shall contain substantially the following language:
   NO PARKING OR TRESPASSING
   VIOLATORS WILL BE PROSECUTED
      2.   With reference to subsection D of this section, the sign shall
contain substantially the following language:
   NO PARKING OR TRESPASSING
   BETWEEN          P.M. AND          A.M.
   VIOLATORS WILL BE PROSECUTED
   F.   Exceptions: The following uses of a business/municipal parking lot or
private business premises shall not be in violation of this section:
      1.   Entrance by owner, occupant, or the employees and agents of the
owners or occupant;
      2.   Entrance by customers, patrons, suppliers and other persons having
lawful business at the business premises or other facility served by the
business/municipal parking lot during normal business hours, or when such
business or facility is otherwise open to the public;
      3.   Temporary entrance in an emergency; or
      4.   Entrance by police officers and city officials in the course of
their duty. (Ord. 74, 3-17-1998; amd. 2002 Code)
5-1-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 26, 11-21-1973; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Restrictions
5-2-3: Exceptions
5-2-4: Enforcement
5-2-5: Penalty
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CURFEW HOURS: For minors fifteen (15) years of age and under, ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. through five o'clock (5:00) A.M. For minors sixteen (16) and seventeen
(17) years of age, commencing at eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Sundays through
Thursdays until five o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following morning; and one minute
after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. until five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Saturdays and
Sundays.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: A. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
MINOR: Any person age seventeen (17) and under.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
PARENT: A person who is:
   A.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person; or
   B.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
REMAIN: A. Linger or stay; or
   B.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer or
the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ. (Ord. 60, 12-20-1994;
amd. Ord. 60.1, 5-18-1999)
5-2-2: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Minor: It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   B.   Parent; Guardian: It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian of a
minor to knowingly permit, or by insufficient control allow, the minor to
remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the
city during curfew hours. The term "knowingly" includes knowledge which a
parent or guardian should reasonably be expected to have concerning the
whereabouts of a minor in the legal custody of that parent or guardian.
   C.   Establishment: It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, or any
employee of an establishment to knowingly allow a minor to remain upon the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours. (Ord. 60, 12-20-1994)
5-2-3: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Valid Exceptions: The following shall constitute valid exceptions to
the operation of the curfew. The minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home from
an employment activity without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor; or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor; or
      8.   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly.
   B.   Defense To Prosecution: It is a defense to prosecution that the owner,
operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the police
department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave. (Ord. 60, 12-20-1994)
5-2-4: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police officer shall
ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place. The
officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this chapter unless
the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on
any response and other circumstances, no defense is present. If a citation is
issued, parents will be given a report of curfew violation, which they will be
asked to read and sign. (Ord. 60, 12-20-1994)
5-2-5: PENALTY:
   A.   Separate Offense: A person who violates any provision of this chapter
is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the
violation is committed, continued, or permitted.
   B.   First Violation: A minor, following the first violation of this
chapter, is taken home to a parent or guardian and a report of curfew violation
is signed by the parent or guardian.
   C.   Second Violation: A second violation by any minor shall be referred for
prosecution by appropriate authorities. Any minor who is convicted of a
violation of this chapter, after the case has been referred for prosecution in
the trial court under Minnesota statutes section 260.115. Any adult person
having the care and custody of such minor is guilty of a petty misdemeanor and
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).
   D.   Additional Violations: Additional violations by any minor shall be
considered a petty misdemeanor. Any additional violations by any adult person
having care and custody of such a minor is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 60, 12-20-1994; amd. 2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DOGS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Running At Large Prohibited
5-3-2: License Required
5-3-3: Requirements For License
5-3-4: Impounding
5-3-5: Regulation Of Potentially Dangerous And Dangerous Dogs
5-3-6: Dangerous Animal Requirements
5-3-7: Penalty
5-3-1: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this chapter, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
    RUN AT LARGE: Permitting any dog to go on or about the public streets,
alleys or other places within the corporate limits of this municipality other
than the premises of the owner or harborer thereof, and except such dog be on a
leash, under the immediate direction and control of the accompanying person, or
in an automobile or other similar confinement.
   UNDER THE IMMEDIATE DIRECTION: In order to be considered under the immediate
direction and control of the accompanying person, the dog must at all times be
within at least thirty feet (30') of said person, be responsive to the commands
of said person, and not be endangering or causing damage in any way to any
person or property.
   B.   Prohibited: No dog shall be permitted to run at large within the limits
of this city. (Ord. 28.3, 3-21-1989)
5-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: No person shall own, keep, harbor or have custody of any dog
over six (6) months of age without first obtaining a license therefor from the
city clerk or his agent and attaching the license tag issued to said dog.
   B.   Applications: Applications for license shall be made on forms
prescribed by the city clerk, which form shall set forth:
      1.   The name and address of the owner;
      2.   The name and address of the person making application, if other than
the owner; and
      3.   The breed, sex, and age of the dog for which a license is sought.
   C.   Issuance: No license shall be issued to any person other than the owner
except upon the written request of the owner. (Ord. 28, 10-18-1977)
5-3-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Term: License shall be valid for a period of one year, commencing
January 1 and expiring December 31 of the year of issuance. (Ord. 28.3, 3-21-
1989)
   B.   Fee:
      1.   Annual Fee: Except as hereinafter provided, a license shall be
issued only upon payment of an annual fee as set from time to time by the city
council for each dog payable to the city clerk.
      2.   Proration: A license may be issued during the calendar year, but
there shall be no proration of the annual fee which shall be due in full at any
time such license is issued.
   C.   Rabies Vaccination:
      1.   Certificate Required: Every application for a license shall be
accompanied by a certificate from a qualified veterinarian showing that the dog
to be licensed has been given a vaccination against rabies within the time
hereinafter specified.
      2.   Current Vaccination: No license shall be granted for a dog which has
not been vaccinated against rabies as provided in this subsection on such a
date that not more than three (3) years will have elapsed from the date of such
vaccination to the time of the expiration of the license to be issued.
      3.   Qualified Veterinarian: Vaccination shall be performed only by a
doctor qualified to practice veterinary medicine in the state in which the dog
is vaccinated. (Ord. 28.3, 3-21-1989; amd. 2002 Code)
5-3-4: IMPOUNDING:
   A.   Power To Impound: Any police officer or other duly authorized city
employee shall impound any dog found unlicensed or running at large.
   B.   Notice To Owner:
      1.   Owner Known: Such officer shall give notice of the impounding to the
owner of such dog, if known.
      2.   Unknown Owner: In the case where the owner is unknown, such officer
shall post notice at the pound and at the city hall that if the dog is not
claimed within five (5) regular business days of the posting of the notice, it
will be killed.
   C.   Care Of Impounded Animals: The poundmaster shall house and feed in a
humane manner any dog held at the pound. (Ord. 28.2, 8-2-1983)
   D.   Impoundment Fees:
      1.   Fees: An impounding fee and a per day fee, as set from time to time
by the city council for care and feeding shall be charged for any dog held at
the pound.
      2.   Payment Required: No dog shall be released until said fees are paid
and all license requirements of this chapter are met.
      3.   Change In Fees: The sum as hereinabove set forth for the impounding
fee and the daily charge for care and feeding shall be subject to change upon
action taken by the city council at a duly called meeting. The setting of such
rates shall, however, be subject to a requirement of thirty (30) days' posted
notice at city hall prior to any such change in rates being put into effect.
(Ord. 28.2, 8-2-1983; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Unclaimed Animals: If such dog is not claimed within the time specified
and all fees and charges paid, the poundmaster shall kill such dog and dispose
of its carcass unless it is requested by a licensed educational or scientific
institution under Minnesota statutes section 35.71. (Ord. 28.2, 8-2-1983)
5-3-5: REGULATION OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Definitions. All definitions related to potentially dangerous or
dangerous dogs shall be taken from Minnesota Statutes Sections 347.50- 347.56,
as those statutes may be amended from time to time, which are hereby adopted
and incorporated by reference into the Baxter City Code.
   B.    Proper Enclosure. Proper enclosure means securely confined indoors or
in a securely locked outdoor pen or structure suitable to prevent the dog from
escaping and to provide protection for the animal from the elements. A proper
enclosure does not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or
other structure that would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any
house or structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens
are the only barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure
shall not allow the egress of the animal in any manner without human
assistance. A pen or kennel shall meet all the following minimum
specifications:
      1.   Have a minimum overall floor size of thirty-two (32) square feet.
      2.   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five (5) feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two (2) inches, support posts shall be one-and-one-quarter-inch or larger steel
pipe buried in the ground eighteen (18) inches or more. When a concrete floor
is not provided, the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of eighteen (18)
inches in the ground.
      3.   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The cover
shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls and
shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two (2) inches.
      4.   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of the
same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two (2) inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable
of being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen
or kennel.
      5.   The pen or kennel shall be located in the side or rear yard and
shall be set back ten (10) feet from side and rear property lines.
   C.   Unprovoked. Unprovoked shall mean the condition in which the animal is
not purposely excited, stimulated, agitated, or disturbed.
   D.   Procedure/Hearing. The procedure to seize an animal that appears to be
dangerous shall be as follows:
      1.   Notify the owner, by registered mail that the animal appears to be
Potentially Dangerous or Dangerous. The notice shall specify the dates, times,
places and parties or animals bitten. Said notice shall also apprise the owner
of the animal that he or she may request a hearing before the City Council by
notifying the City Administrator within ten (10) days after the receipt of the
dangerous dog notice.
      2.   If the owner does not request a hearing within ten (10) days of
dangerous dog notice, the Enforcement Officer shall immediately take possession
of the dangerous dog and euthanize same.
      3.   If the owner of the animal requests a hearing as to the dangerous
nature of the animal, the City Administrator shall place the matter before the
City Council at its next regular meeting. The owner may present evidence in
opposition to the designation of the animal as dangerous. The Animal Control
Officer shall present evidence to the City Council that supports the
determination that the animal is dangerous. Following the hearing, the Council
shall make a determination of the facts and issue an order as to whether or not
said animal is properly characterized as dangerous. If the Council determines
that the animal is dangerous, it will then order the owner to deliver said
animal to the Animal Control Officer for the purpose of euthanizing said
animal, unless the owner provides an alternative proposal, acceptable to the
City Council which may include the permanent removal of the animal from the
Baxter City limits. (Ord. 2021-006, 4-20-2021)
5-3-6: DANGEROUS ANIMAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of an
animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
      1.   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in Section
5-3-5, B.;
      2.   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property as specified in Minnesota Statutes Sections
347.50- 347.56;
      3.   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in the
minimum amount of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00);
      4.   If the dog is outside the proper enclosure, the dog must be muzzled
and restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed six (6) feet in
length) and under the physical restraint of a person sixteen (16) years of age
or older. The muzzle must be of such design as to prevent the dog from biting
any person or animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with
its vision or respiration; and
      5.   Any or all additional requirements permitted under Minnesota
Statutes Sections 347.50-347.56.
   B.   Seizure. The Enforcement Officer shall immediately seize any dangerous
animal if the owner does not meet any of the above requirements imposed by the
City Council within fourteen days after the date notice is sent to the owner
that the animal is dangerous.
   C.   Reclaiming Dangerous Animals. A dangerous animal seized may be
reclaimed under provisions of
5-3-4, by the owner of the animal upon payment of impounding and boarding fees,
and presenting proof to animal control that each of the requirements is
fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this Section within fourteen (14) days
may be disposed of under provisions of
5-3-4, and the owner is liable to the City of Baxter for all costs incurred in
confining the animal and having the animal destroyed including, but not limited
to, reimbursement of all of the City's legal fees and court costs.
   D.   Subsequent Offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently violated
the provisions of
5-3-5 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by the Enforcement
Officer. The owner may request a hearing as provided for in the provisions of
5-3-5, D. If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Enforcement Officer shall order the animal destroyed in
a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining the
animal. If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for which
the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the provisions of
5-3-6, C, if provisions have been fulfilled. If the animal is not yet reclaimed
by the owner within fourteen days after the date the owner is notified that the
animal may be reclaimed, the animal may be disposed of under the provisions of
5-3-4, and the owner is liable to the animal control or City of Baxter for the
costs incurred in confining, impounding, and disposing of the animal. (Ord.
2021-006, 4-20-2021)
5-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 28, 10-18-1977; amd. 2002 Code; Ord. 2021-006, 4-20-
2021)
CHAPTER 4
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Noises Prohibited
5-4-3: Exception For Emergency Work
5-4-4: Powers And Duties Of Police Department
5-4-5: Variances
5-4-6: Enforcement; Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Words and phrases defined in this section have, when used in this chapter, the
meanings given below. Any other word or phrase used in this chapter and defined
in regulations of the Minnesota pollution control agency noise pollution
control rules chapter 7030, has the meaning given in those regulations:
ENGINE RETARDER BRAKES: The auxiliary braking system commonly installed on
heavy trucks which uses engine compression to slow the vehicle thereby emitting
a loud rumbling noise. This braking system was originally designed to assist
braking on steep downhill grades.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, trustee, association,
the state and its agencies and subdivisions, or any body of persons whether
incorporated or not. With respect to acts prohibited or required herein,
"person" shall include employees and licensees. (Ord. 69, 11-7-1996; amd. Ord.
69.1, 2-6-2001)
5-4-2: NOISES PROHIBITED:
   A.   General Prohibition: No person shall make or cause to be made any
distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
the following subsections.
   B.   Motor Vehicles: These regulations are intended to limit such maximum
sound levels to those consistent not only with the physical and mental well
being of the people, but also with the safe operation of a motor vehicle:
      1.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in the city in violation of
the motor vehicle noise limits of the Minnesota pollution control agency.
      2.   The play, use, or operation of any radio, tape or disc player,
musical instrument, phonograph, paging system or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in such a manner as to be plainly audible
at a distance of fifty feet (50') from the motor vehicle shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this subsection. (Ord. 69, 11-7-1996)
      3.   Due to the flat terrain of Baxter and the loud and unpleasant sound
of engine retarder brakes, the use of such brakes is prohibited within the city
of Baxter except in emergency situations in which the primary braking system
has failed or is inadequate. (Ord. 69.1, 2-6-2001)
   C.   Horns, Audible Signaling Devices: No person shall sound any signaling
device on any vehicle except as a warning of danger as required by Minnesota
statutes section 169.68.
   D.   Exhaust: No person shall discharge the exhaust or permit the discharge
of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine,
motorboat, motor vehicle, or snowmobile except through a muffler or other
device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises therefrom and
complies with all applicable state laws and regulations.
   E.   Defective Vehicles Or Loads: No person shall use any vehicle so out of
repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
   F.   Loading, Unloading, Unpacking: No person shall create loud or excessive
noise in loading, unloading, or unpacking any vehicle.
   G.   Radios, Phonographs, Paging Systems: No person shall use or operate or
permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph, paging system, machine or other device for the production or
reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly audible manner as to
unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine, or other device
between hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. in such
a manner as to be plainly audible at the property line of the structure or
building in which it is located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a
distance of fifty feet (50') if the source is located outside a structure or
building shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this subsection.
   H.   Participation In Noisy Parties Or Gatherings: No person shall
participate in any party or other gathering of people giving rise to noise,
unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet, or repose of another person. When a
police officer determines that a gathering is creating such a noise
disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than the owner or
tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disperse
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a police
officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped.
   I.   Loudspeakers, Amplifiers For Advertising: No person shall operate or
permit the use or operation of any loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other
device for the production or reproduction of sound on a street or other public
place for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of
the public to any commercial establishment or vehicle.
   J.   Animals: No person shall keep any animal that unreasonably disturbs the
comfort or repose of persons in the vicinity by its frequent or continued
noise. For purposes of this subsection, "disturbs the comfort or repose of
persons in the vicinity by its frequent or continued noise" means any one of
the following:
      1.   The animal noise occurs at a time between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and can be heard from a location outside the
building and premises where the animal is being kept, and the animal has made
such noises intermittently for more than three (3) minutes with one minute or
less lapse of time between each animal noise during the three (3) minute
period; or
      2.   The animal noise can be heard from a one block distance from the
location of the building or premises where the animal is being kept, and the
animal has made such noises intermittently for more than three (3) minutes with
one minute or less lapse of time between each animal noise during the three (3)
minute period; or
      3.   The animal noise can be heard from a location outside the building
and premises where the animal is being kept, and the animal has made such
noises intermittently for a period of at least five (5) minutes with one minute
or less lapse of time between each animal noise during the five (5) minute
period.
   K.   Schools, Churches, Hospitals: No person shall create any excessive
noise on a street, alley, or public grounds adjacent to any school, institution
of learning, church, hospital, nursing home or home for the elderly when the
noise unreasonably interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs
or unduly annoys its occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate
the presence of such institution. (Ord. 69, 11-7-1996)
5-4-3: EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY WORK:
Noise created exclusively in the performance of emergency work to preserve the
public health, safety or welfare, or in the performance of emergency work
necessary to restore a public service or eliminate a public hazard shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter for a period not to exceed twenty
four (24) hours after the work is commenced. Persons responsible for such work
shall inform the police department of the need to initiate such work; or, if
the work is commenced during nonbusiness hours of the city, at the beginning of
business hours of the first business day thereafter. Any person responsible for
such emergency work shall take all reasonable actions to minimize the amount of
noise. (Ord. 69, 11-7-1996)
5-4-4: POWER AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Administering Officer: The noise control program established by this
chapter shall be administered by the police department.
   B.   Studies: The police department shall conduct such research, monitoring,
and other studies related to sound as are necessary or useful in enforcing this
chapter and reducing noise in the city. He or she shall make such
investigations and inspections in accordance with law as required in applying
chapter requirements.
   C.   Other Powers And Duties: The police department shall exercise such
other powers and perform such other duties as are reasonable and necessary to
enforce this chapter. (Ord. 69, 11-7-1996)
5-4-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority: The police department shall have authority, consistent with
this section, to grant variances from the requirements of any section of this
chapter.
   B.   Application:
      1.   Form: Any person seeking a variance shall file an application with
the police department on a form prescribed by the officer.
      2.   Required Information: The application shall state the dates during
which the variance is proposed, the location of the noise source and times of
operation, the nature of the noise source, reasons why the variance is sought,
steps taken to minimize the noise level, and such other information as is
required by the police department.
      3.   Notice To Property Owners: If the application is for a variance for
more than three (3) days, the police department shall give mailed notice of the
requested variance to all property owners within five hundred feet (500') of
the noise source.
      4.   Objections: Any person claiming to be adversely affected by the
variance applied for may, within twenty (20) days of mailing of the notice,
file a statement with the police department in support of his or her claim.
   C.   Action On Application:
      1.   Public Hearing:
         a.   Request Of Police Department: If the police department finds that
sufficient controversy exists regarding the proposed variance, it shall direct
the city planning and zoning commission to hold a public hearing on the
proposal at which all persons affected shall be given an opportunity to be
heard.
         b.   Request Of Applicant, Affected Person: The planning and zoning
commission shall also hold such a hearing upon request of the applicant or any
person claiming to be adversely affected by the variance applied for as long as
such request is received within twenty (20) days of the filing of the
application.
      2.   Approval/Denial Of Application:
         a.   Time Restrictions:
            (1)   Without Hearing: Within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
application in cases where no public hearing is held, the officer shall approve
or deny the application.
            (2)   With Hearing: Where a public hearing is held, the planning
and zoning commission shall approve or deny the application within thirty (30)
days of the hearing.
         b.   Criteria For Approval: It may be approved only if the officer or
the planning and zoning commission finds that full compliance with the
requirements of this chapter would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the
applicant, on other persons, or on the community. In determining whether to
grant or deny the application, the officer or the planning and zoning
commission shall balance the hardship to the applicant against the adverse
impact on the health, safety and welfare of the persons affected, the adverse
impact on property affected, and any other adverse effects of granting the
variance.
         c.   Additional Conditions: The variance may be granted subject to
conditions, including a time limit, which shall be clearly stated.
   D.   Appeals:
      1.   Right To Appeal: Either the applicant or any party aggrieved may,
within twenty (20) days of the decision on the variance application, appeal to
the city council for a review of the decision.
      2.   Filing: The appeal shall be filed in writing with the city clerk.
      3.   Hearing; Notice: The appeal shall be heard as soon as practicable
and within twenty (20) days of the filing of the appeal, and the applicant and
any person who has filed a statement on the application for a variance with the
police department shall be given at least ten (10) days' mailed notice of the
time when and the place where the appeal will be considered by the council.
      4.   Council Action: The council may affirm, modify or overrule the
action of the police department or the planning and zoning commission on the
basis of the criteria set out in subsection C of this section. (Ord. 69, 11-7-
1996)
5-4-6: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
   A.   Civil Remedies: This chapter may be enforced by injunction, action for
abatement, or other appropriate civil remedy.
   B.   Criminal Penalties:
      1.   Petty Misdemeanor: Any violation of this chapter involving the
operation of a motor vehicle is a petty misdemeanor and, upon conviction, the
violator shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   Misdemeanor: Every person who violates any other provision of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In all cases, the city shall be entitled to collect the
costs of prosecution to the extent outlined by law, rules of criminal
procedure, and the rules of court.
      3.   Separate Offense: Each act of violation and each day a violation
occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 69, 11-7-1996; amd.
2002 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SOCIAL HOSTS PERMITTING UNDERAGE DRINKING
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose And Findings
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Prohibited Acts
5-5-4: Exceptions
5-5-5: Penalty
5-5-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
The city council intends to discourage underage possession and consumption of
alcohol, even if done within the confines of a private residence, and intends
to hold persons criminally responsible who host events or gatherings where
persons under twenty one (21) years of age possess or consume alcohol
regardless of whether the person hosting the event or gathering supplied the
alcohol. The city council finds:
   A.   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where alcohol
is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of twenty one (21) are
harmful to those persons and constitute a potential threat to public health
requiring prevention or abatement.
   B.   Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage persons, as
well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol consumption, such
as alcohol overdose or alcohol related traffic collisions.
   C.   Often, events or gatherings involving underage possession and
consumption occur outside the presence of parents. However, there are times
when the parent(s) is(are) present, and condone the activity, and in some
circumstances provide the alcohol.
   D.   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an underage person is a
crime, it is difficult to prove, and an ordinance is necessary to help further
combat underage consumption.
   E.   A deterrent effect will be created by holding a person criminally
responsible for hosting an event or gathering where underage possession or
consumption occurs. (Ord. 2009-16, 10-20-2009)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:
ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, whiskey,
rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid or
solid containing alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, or beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for
beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances.
EVENT OR GATHERING: Any group of three (3) or more persons who have assembled
or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
HOST OR ALLOW: To aid, conduct, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit a gathering or event.
PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
   A.   As a natural, adoptive parent, or stepparent;
   B.   As a legal guardian; or
   C.   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the court.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, corporation, or any
association of one or more individuals. A person does not include any city,
county, or state agency.
RESIDENCE, PREMISES OR PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any home, yard, farm, field,
land, apartment, condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a
hall or meeting room, park, or any other place of assembly, whether occupied on
a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or specifically
for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased, rented, or
used with or without permission or compensation.
UNDERAGE PERSON: Any individual under twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord. 2009-
16, 10-20-2009)
5-5-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person(s) to:
      1.   Host or allow an event or gathering at any residence, premises, or
on any other private or public property where alcohol or alcoholic beverages
are present when the person knows that an underage person will or does: a)
consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; or b) possess any alcohol or
alcoholic beverage with the intent to consume it and the person fails to take
reasonable steps to prevent possession or consumption by the underage person
(s).
   B.   A person is criminally responsible for violating subsection A of this
section if the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, or
conspires with or otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
   C.   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be present at
the event or gathering to be criminally responsible. (Ord. 2009-16, 10-20-2009)
5-5-4: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   This chapter does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while present in the parent's household.
   B.   This chapter does not apply to legally protected religious observances.
   C.   This chapter does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2
percent malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit
holders who are regulated by Minnesota statutes section 340A.503 subdivision 1
(a)(1).
   D.   This chapter does not apply to situations where underage persons are
lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course and
scope of employment. (Ord. 2009-16, 10-20-2009)
5-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-16, 10-20-2009)
CHAPTER 6
TOBACCO AND TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES AND PRODUCTS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Purpose And Intent
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: License
5-6-4: Fees
5-6-5: Basis For Denial Of License
5-6-6: Illegal Acts
5-6-7: Responsibility
5-6-8: Compliance Checks And Inspections
5-6-9: Other Illegal Acts
5-6-10: Exceptions And Defenses
5-6-11: Violations And Penalty
5-6-12: Severability
5-6-13: Effective Date
5-6-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The City hereby adopts the Minnesota Legislature's finding, as stated in Minn.
Stat. 144.391, that: (1) smoking causes premature death, disability, and
chronic disease, including cancer and heart disease, and lung disease; (2)
smoking related diseases result in excess medical care costs; and (3) smoking
initiation occurs primarily in adolescence. The City also adopts the
legislature's desire to prevent young people from starting to smoke, to
encourage and assist smokers to quit, and to promote clean indoor air. The City
recognizes that the sale of tobacco-related products to persons under the age
of twenty-one (21) violates both state and federal law. Because the City
recognizes that many persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years purchase or
otherwise obtain, possess, and use tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related
devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia deliver products
and that such sales, possession, and use are violations of State and Federal
laws; and pursuant to the mandates contained in state and federal law this
ordinance is intended to regulate the sale, possession, and use of tobacco,
tobacco products, tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, and
nicotine or lobelia delivery products for the purpose of enforcing and
furthering existing laws and state mandates, and to protect the public against
the serious effects associated with the use of tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia
delivery products. The purpose of this ordinance is to reduce the appeal to
youth and young adults and reduce the likelihood that youth and young adults
will become users of tobacco-related products later in life, thereby promoting
health, safety, and welfare. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-001, 3-15-
2022)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The term "shall" means
mandatory and the term "may" means permissive. For the purpose of this chapter,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning:
CHILD-         Packaging that meets the definition set forth in Code of Federal Regulations,
RESISTANT      title 16, section 1700.15(b), as in effect on January 1, 2015, and was tested
PACKAGING:     in accordance with the method described in Code of Federal Regulations, title
               16, section 1700.20, as in effect on January 1, 2015.
               Any roll of tobacco that is wrapped in tobacco leaf or in any other substance
CIGAR:         containing tobacco, with or without a tip or mouthpiece, which is not a
               cigarette as defined in Minn. Stat. § 297F.01, subd. 3, as may be amended from
               time to time.
               The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that those authorized to
               sell licensed products are following and complying with the requirements of
COMPLIANCE     this chapter. Compliance checks shall involve the use of persons under the age
CHECKS:        of 21 purchase or attempt to purchase licensed products. Compliance checks may
               also be conducted by the city or other units of government for educational,
               research, and training purposes or for investigating or enforcing federal,
               state or local laws and regulations relating to licensed products.
               Any product containing or delivering nicotine, lobelia, or any other substance,
               whether natural or synthetic, intended for human consumption through the
               inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product. Electronic delivery device
               shall include, but is not limited to, devices manufactured, distributed,
ELECTRONIC     marketed or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens, mods, tank
DELIVERY       systems, or under any other product name or descriptor. Electronic delivery
DEVICES:       device shall include any component part of such product, whether or not
               marketed or sold separately. Electronic delivery device shall not include any
               product that has been approved or otherwise certified by the U.S. Food and Drug
               Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence
               product, or for other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold solely for
               that approved purpose.
               All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by walls, doorways, or
               windows, whether open or closed, covering more than fifty percent (50%) of the
INDOOR AREA:   combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the perimeter of the
               area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other physical
               barrier, whether temporary or permanent.
LICENSED       The term that collectively refers to any tobacco, tobacco-related device,
PRODUCT:       electronic delivery device, or nicotine or lobelia delivery product.
               The common term used to refer to single cigarettes, cigars, and other licensed
               product that have been removed from their original retail packaging and offered
LOOSIES:       for sale. Loosies does not include premium cigars that are hand-constructed,
               have a wrapper made entirely from whole tobacco leaf, and have a filler and
               binder made entirely of tobacco, except for adhesives or other materials used
               to maintain size, texture, or flavor.
MINOR:         Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of eighteen (18) years.
MOVABLE PLACE  Any form of business operated out of a truck, van, kiosk, automobile or other
OF BUSINESS:   type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a fixed address storefront or
               other permanent type of structure authorized for sales transactions.
               Any product containing or delivering nicotine or lobelia intended for human
NICOTINE OR    consumption, or any part of such a product, that is not a tobacco or an
LOBELIA        electronic delivery device as defined in this section. Nicotine or lobelia
DELIVERY       delivery product does not include any product that has been approved or
PRODUCT:       otherwise certified for legal sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as
               a tobacco-cessation product, a tobacco-dependence product, or for other medical
               purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose.
               Any place of business where licensed products are available for sale to the
RETAIL         general public. The phrase shall include, but not be limited to, grocery
ESTABLISHMENT: stores, tobacco products shops, convenience stores, gasoline service stations,
               bars, restaurants, and drugstores.
SALE:          Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
               Open displays of licensed products in any manner where any person shall have
SELF-SERVICE   access to the licensed products without the assistance or intervention of the
MERCHANDISING: licensee or the licensee's employee. The assistance or intervention shall
               entail the actual physical exchange of the licensed product between the
               customer and the licensee or employee.
               Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco that is intended for
               human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled,
               snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, or any component, part, or
               accessory of a tobacco product, included but not limited to cigarettes; cigars;
TOBACCO OR     cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and
TOBACCO        other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco;
PRODUCTS:      fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings
               and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco. Tobacco
               excludes any drugs, devices, or combination products, as those terms are
               defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, that are authorized for
               sale by the United States Food and Drug Administration.
TOBACCO        Any rolling papers, wraps, pipes, ashtray, or other device intentionally
RELATED        designed or intended to be used with tobacco products. Tobacco-related device
DEVICES:       includes components of tobacco-related devices or tobacco products, which may
               be marketed or sold separately.
               Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of device which dispenses
VENDING        licensed products upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment
MACHINE:       directly into the machine by the person seeking to purchase the licensed
               product.
               Any facility with residents, customers, visitors, or inhabitants of which 25
               percent or more are regularly under the age of 21 or that primarily sells,
YOUTH-ORIENTED rents, or offers services or products that are consumed or used primarily by
FACILITY:      persons under the age of 21. Youth-oriented facility includes, but is not
               limited to, schools, playgrounds, recreation centers, and parks. (Ord. 2016-01,
               1-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-001, 3-15-2022)
 
5-6-3: LICENSE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed
product without first having obtained a tobacco retailer license to do so from
the City. The City shall conduct a preliminary background on the applicant.
   B.   Application: An application for a license to sell licensed products
shall be made on a form provided by the City. The application shall contain the
full name of the applicant, the applicant's residential and business addresses
and telephone numbers, the name of the business for which the license is
sought, and any additional information the City deems necessary. Upon receipt
of a completed application, the City Clerk shall forward the application to the
City Council for action at its next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
If the City Clerk shall determine that an application is incomplete, he or she
shall return the application to the applicant with notice of the information
necessary to make the application complete.
   C.   Action: The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it
may delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
City Council shall approve the license, the City Clerk shall issue the license
to the applicant. If the City Council denies the license, notice of the denial
shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's right to
appeal the City Council's decision.
   D.   Term: All licenses issued under this section shall be issued for the
period of July 1 through June 30. If an application for a license is made
during the license period of July 1 through June 30, the license shall be
issued for the remaining portion of said license period. All licenses shall
expire on June 30 of each year.
   E.   Revocation Or Suspension: Any license issued under this section may be
revoked or suspended as provided in section 5-6-113 of this chapter.
   F.   Transfers: All licenses issued under this section shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the City Council.
   G.   Movable Place Of Business: No license shall be issued to a movable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this section.
   H.   Display: All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   I.   Renewals: The renewal of a license issued under this chapter shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days but no more than sixty (60)
days before the expiration of the current license.
   J.   Issuance As Privilege And Not A Right: The issuance of a license issued
under this chapter shall be considered a privilege and shall not entitle the
license holder to an automatic renewal of the license.
   K.   Smoking Prohibited: Smoking, including smoking for the purpose of the
sampling of licensed products, is prohibited within the indoor area of any
retail establishment licensed under this chapter.
   L.   Proximity To Youth Oriented Facilities: No license shall be granted to
any person for retail establishment location that is within one thousand feet
(1,000') of youth oriented facility, as measured by the shortest line from the
property line of the space to be occupied by the applicant for a license to the
nearest property line of a youth oriented facility. This restriction does not
apply to an existing license holder who has been licensed to sell licensed
products in that same location for at least one year before the date this
section was enacted into law so long as that location does not become subject
to a transfer of ownership or a lapse in the license due to nonrenewal.
   M.   Proximity To Other Licensed Retailers: No license shall be granted to
any person for any retail establishment location that is within two thousand
feet (2,000') of any other existing licensed retail establishment, as measured
by the shortest line from the property line of the space to be occupied by the
applicant for a license to the nearest property line of the existing licensee.
This restriction does not apply to an applicant who has been licensed to sell
licensed products in the same location for at least one year before the date
this section was enacted into law so long as that location does not become
subject to a transfer of ownership or a lapse in the license due to nonrenewal.
(Ord. 2018-009, 5-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-001, 3-15-2022; Ord. 2024-001, 1-2-
2024)
5-6-4: FEES:
No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license fee
shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
established in the City's ordinance establishing fees and charges, as it may be
amended from time to time. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-5-2016)
5-6-5: BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license under this
chapter include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   The applicant is under twenty-one (21) years of age.
      2.   The applicant has been convicted within the past five (5) years of
any violation of a Federal, State, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to licensed products.
      3.   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products suspended
or revoked within the preceding twelve (12) months of the date of application.
      4.   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
licensing application, or provides false or misleading information.
      5.   The applicant is prohibited by Federal, State, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license.
   B.   However, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of
any particular ground for denial does not mean that the City must deny the
license.
   C.   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this chapter. The City will provide the license holder with notice of the
revocation, along with information on the right to appeal. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-5-
2016; amd. Ord. 2022-001, 3-15-2022)
5-6-6: ILLEGAL ACTS:
   A.   In General: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to
sell or offer to sell any licensed product.
      1.   By means of any type of vending machine.
      2.   By means of "loosies" as defined in section
5-6-2 of this chapter.
      3.   Containing opium, morphine, jimsonweed, belladonna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intention of this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes
or other tobacco products subject to this chapter.
      4.   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision, or
other regulation.
   B.   Legal Age: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to
sell any licensed product to any person under the age of twenty-one (21).
      1.   Age Verification: Licensees must verify by means of government-
issued photographic identification that the purchaser is at least twenty-one
(21) years of age. Verification is not required for a person over the age of
thirty (30). That the person appeared to be thirty (30) years of age or older
does not constitute a defense to a violation of this subsection.
      2.   Signage: Notice of the legal sales age and age verification
requirement must be posted prominently and in plain view at all times at each
location where licensed products are offered for sale. The required signage,
which will be provided to the licensee by the city, must be posted in a manner
that is clearly visible to anyone who is or is considering making a purchase.
   C.   Self-Service Sales: It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this
chapter to allow the sale of licensed products tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, or electronic delivery devices by any self-service
displays means whereby the customer may have access to those items without
having to request the item from the licensee or the licensee's employee and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the licensed product tobacco,
tobacco product, tobacco related device, or electronic delivery device between
the licensee or his or her clerk and the customer. All licensed products
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, and electronic delivery
devices shall either be stored behind a the sales counter, or other in another
area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage unit not
left open and accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling licensed
products tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, or electronic
delivery devices at the time this chapter is adopted shall comply with this
section within ninety (90) days following the effective date of this chapter.
   D.   Liquid Packaging: No person shall sell or offer to sell any liquid,
whether or not such liquid contains nicotine, which is intended for human
consumption and use in an electronic delivery device, in packaging that is not
child-resistant. Upon request by the city, a licensee must provide a copy of
the certificate of compliance or full laboratory testing report for the
packaging used.
   E.   Cigars: No person shall sell or offer to sell any cigar that is not
within its intended retail packaging. This provision does not prohibit the sale
of a single cigar with a retail price, after any discounts are applied and
before . sales taxes are imposed, of at least two dollars ($2.00). (Ord. 2016-
01, 1-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-001, 3-15-2022)
5-6-7: RESPONSIBILITY:
All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of their
employees in regard to the sale, offer to sell, or furnishing of licensed
products on the licensed premises. The sale, offer to sell, or furnishing of
any licensed product by an employee shall be considered an act of the license
holder. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the city from
also subjecting the employee or clerk to any civil penalties that the city
deems to be appropriate under this chapter, state or federal law, or other
applicable law or regulation. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-001, 3-
15-2022)
5-6-8: COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS:
All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the city police or other
authorized city official during regular business hours. From time to time, but
at least once per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks. In accordance
with state law, the city shall conduct at least one compliance check that
involves the participation of a person between the ages of fifteen (15) and
seventeen (17). In addition the City may conduct compliance checks that involve
the participation of a person between the ages of eighteen (18) and twenty (20)
to enter licensed premises to attempt to purchase licensed products. Prior
written consent is required for any person under the age of eighteen (18) to
participate in a compliance check. Persons used for the purpose of compliance
checks shall be supervised by city designated law enforcement officers or other
designated city personnel. Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance
checks authorized by state or federal laws for educational, research, or
training purposes, or required for the enforcement of a particular state or
federal law. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-001, 3-15-2022)
5-6-9: OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS:
Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter:
   A.   Illegal Possession: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco
related device, or electronic delivery device. This subsection shall not apply
to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   B.   Illegal Use: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, sniff, inhale or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product,
tobacco related device, or electronic delivery device.
   C.   Prohibited Furnishing or Procurement: It shall be a violation of this
chapter for any person twenty-one (21) years of age or older to purchase, or
attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any licensed product on behalf of a
person under the age of twenty-one (21). It shall also be a violation of this
chapter for any person twenty-one (21) years of age and older to coerce or
attempt to coerce a person under the age of twenty-one (21) to illegally
purchase or attempt to purchase any licensed product.
   D.   Use Of False Identification: It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false
form of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or
one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to
represent an age older than the actual age of the person. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-5-
2016; amd. Ord. 2022-001, 3-15-2022)
5-6-10: EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES:
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the provision of tobacco or tobacco-
related devices to any person as part of an indigenous practice or a lawfully
recognized religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremony or practice. It shall be
an affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter for a person to have
reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-
5-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-001, 3-15-2022)
5-6-11: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor Prosecution: Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter by a person twenty-one (21) years of age or older.
   B.   Violations:
      1.   Notice: A person violating this chapter may be issued, either
personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the alleged violation and
that informs the alleged violator of his or her right to a hearing on the
matter. The citation shall provide notice that a hearing must be requested
within ten (10) business days of receipt and that hearing rights shall be
terminated if a hearing is not promptly requested. The citation shall provide
information on how and where a hearing may be requested, including a contact
address and phone number.
      2.   Hearings:
         a.   Upon issuance of a citation, a person accused of violating this
chapter may request in writing a hearing on the matter. Hearing requests must
be made within ten (10) business days of the issuance of the citation and
delivered to the city clerk or other designated city officer. Failure to
request a hearing within ten (10) business days of the issuance of the citation
will terminate the person's right to a hearing.
         b.   The city clerk or other designated city officer shall set the
time and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and place
shall be mailed or delivered to the accused violator at least ten (10) business
days prior to the hearing.
      3.   Hearing Officer: The city official designated by the city council
shall serve as the hearing officer. The hearing officer must be an impartial
employee of the city or an impartial person retained by the city to conduct the
hearing.
      4.   Decision:
         a.   Issuance: A decision shall be issued by the hearing officer
within ten (10) business days. If the hearing officer determines that a
violation of this chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing
officer's reasons for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under
this subsection B, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be
provided to the city and the accused violator by in person delivery or mail as
soon as practicable. Likewise, if the hearing officer finds that no violation
occurred or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, those findings shall be
recorded and a copy provided to the city and the acquitted accused violator by
in person delivery or mail as soon as practicable.
         b.   Costs: If the citation is upheld by the hearing officer, the
city's actual expenses in holding the hearing up to a maximum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) shall be paid by the person requesting the hearing.
         c.   Decision Final: The decision of the hearing officer is final,
subject to an appeal as described under subsection B5 of this section.
      5.   Appeals: Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall
be filed in the district court for the city in which the alleged violation
occurred within ten (10) business days.
      6.   Continued Violation: Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Administrative Penalties:
      1.   Licensees: Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or
whose employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an
administrative fine of three hundred dollars ($300) for a first violation of
this chapter; six hundred dollars ($600) for a second offense at the same
licensed premises within a thirty-six (36) month period; and one thousand
dollars ($1,000) for a third or subsequent offense at the same location within
a thirty-six (36) month period. In addition, after the third offense, the
license shall be suspended for not less than thirty (30) consecutive days. Upon
a fourth violation within a thirty-six (36) month period, the license will be
revoked.
      2.   Other Individuals: Individuals, other than persons under the age of
twenty-one (21) regulated by subsection C3 of this section, found to be in
violation of this chapter shall be charged an administrative fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00).
      3.   Persons Under the Age of Twenty-One (21): Persons under the age of
twenty-one (21) who use a false identification to purchase or attempt to
purchase licensed products may only be subject to non-criminal, non-monetary
civil penalties such as tobacco-related education classes, diversion programs,
community services, or another penalty that the city believes will be
appropriate and effective. The City Council will consult with interested
parties of the courts, educators, parents and children to determine an
appropriate penalty for persons under the age of twenty-one (21) in the city.
The penalty may also be established by ordinance and amended from time to time.
      4.   Statutory Penalties: If the administrative penalties authorized to
be imposed by Minnesota statutes section 461.12, as it may be amended from time
to time, differ from those established in this section, then the statutory
penalties shall prevail. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-5-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-001, 3-15-
2022)
5-6-12: SEVERABILITY:
If any section or provision of this chapter is held invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect other sections or provisions which can be given force and
effect without the invalidated section or provision. (Ord. 2016-01, 1-5-2016;
amd. Ord. 2022-001, 3-15-2022)
5-6-13: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter becomes effective on the date of its publication, or upon the
publication of a summary of the ordinance as provided by Minn. Stat. § 412.191,
subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time, which meets the requirements
of Minn. Stat. § 331A.01, subd. 10, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2022-001, 3-15-2022)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Purpose And Findings
5-7-2: Definitions
5-7-3: Permit
5-7-4: Permit Application
5-7-5: Permit Review
5-7-6: Permit Issuance
5-7-7: Special Services Fees
5-7-8: Indemnification Agreement
5-7-9: Insurance Requirements
5-7-10: Overnight Camping
5-7-11: Compliance With Permit
5-7-12: Permit Revocation
5-7-13: Enforcement
5-7-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
It is the purpose of the city council to regulate the time, place and manner of
special events when the event's impact upon the health, sanitary, fire, police,
transportation and utility services exceed those regularly provided to that
property. This chapter is enacted in order to promote the health, safety and
welfare of all residents and visitors of the city by ensuring that special
events do not create disturbances, become nuisances, menace or threaten life,
health or property, disrupt traffic or threaten or damage private or public
property. It is not the intent of the city council by enacting this chapter to
regulate in any manner the content of speech or infringe upon the right to
assemble, except for regulating the time, place and manner of speech and
assembly and this chapter should not be interpreted or construed otherwise.
(Ord. 2014-07, 4-1-2014)
5-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, will have
the following meanings:
 
                  Any concert, parade, fair, show, festival, carnival, rally,
                  party, filming of a movie, video or television show,
                  motorcade, run, street dance, bike-a-thon, race, walk or
SPECIAL EVENT:    athletic event or other attended entertainment or celebration
                  that is to be held in whole or in part upon publicly owned
                  property or public right of way, or, if held wholly upon
                  private property, will require the use of special services.
                  The exclusive allocation of city resources, including, but
                  not limited to, city personnel, equipment, right of way,
                  property or facilities for use in conjunction with a specific
                  event or activity, as requested by the host or sponsor of the
                  event, or as requested by or on behalf of any person
                  attending the event, or deemed necessary by city staff in
                  order to maintain public safety. Special services shall
                  include, but not be limited to, any of the following: street
                  closures; requiring police officers to stop or reroute
SPECIAL SERVICES: traffic; special police protection; stationing emergency
                  vehicles at or in the immediate vicinity of the event;
                  exclusive use of city streets as a staging area or for event
                  parking; additional street cleaning and garbage removal
                  services; special signage, such as temporary no parking
                  signs; temporary relief of city zoning requirements; the use
                  of any city building, equipment or other property for any
                  purpose other than the normal daily operations of the city;
                  or the city otherwise providing exclusive services. (Ord.
                  2014-07, 4-1-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-003, 2-7-2023)
 
5-7-3: PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: Any person or organization desiring to hold a special
event in the city must first obtain a special event permit from the city in
addition to any other permits required for the event by state law or city
ordinance.
   B.   Exception: A permit is not required for:
      1.   Wedding ceremonies, funeral ceremonies and funeral processions;
      2.   Any event attended by fewer than three hundred (300) persons at one
time which does not require any special services and does not involve the sale
of alcohol;
      3.   Any event that is otherwise regulated by the city through the use of
another regulatory manner, such as an interim use permit or conditional use
permit; and
      4.   The use of traditional public forums as alternative channels of
communication by the public, provided that such use is for the free exercise of
constitutionally protected activities and does not disrupt or interfere with
traffic on public streets or the use of public places by other members of the
public.
   C.   Approval: Approval of a special event is at the sole discretion of the
City. Approval of an event does not require the City to approve similar events
or even the repeat of the same event. Each event will be reviewed separately.
(Ord. 2014-07, 4-1-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-003, 2-7-2023)
5-7-4: PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   Form: Application for a permit to hold a special event must be made in
writing and must contain a statement made upon oath or affirmation that the
statements contained therein are true and correct to the best knowledge of the
applicant and must be signed and sworn to or affirmed by the individual making
application in the case of a corporation, by all partners in the case of a
partnership, or by all officers of an unincorporated association, society or
group, or, if there are no officers, by all members of such association,
society, or group. The application must contain and disclose the following:
      1.   Applicant name, address, phone number;
      2.   Date of proposed special event;
      3.   Address of proposed special event;
      4.   Name of property owner, if different from applicant;
      5.   Type and description of the special event and a list of all
activities to take place at the special event;
      6.   Estimated number of persons to attend and estimated number of
volunteers;
      7.   Duration of special event, including beginning and ending times;
      8.   Any public health plans, including supplying water to the site,
solid waste collection and provision of toilet facilities, if applicable;
      9.   Any fire prevention and emergency medical services plans, if
applicable;
      10.   Any security plans, if applicable;
      11.   The admission fee, donation or other consideration to be charged or
requested for admission, if applicable;
      12.   Whether food or alcohol will be served or sold at the event;
      13.   A detailed description of all public rights of way and private
streets for which the applicant requests the city to restrict or alter normal
parking, vehicular traffic or pedestrian traffic patterns, the nature of such
restrictions or alterations, and the basis;
      14.   A description of any services, city personnel, city equipment and
city property which the applicant requests the city to provide, including the
applicant's estimate of the number and type needed, and the basis on which the
estimate is made;
      15.   Whether any sound amplification or public address system will be
used or if there will be any playing of any music or musical instruments;
      16.   A statement signed by the applicant either agreeing to pay all fees
and meet all other requirements of this section, or representing to the city
that the applicant is duly authorized to make such agreement on behalf of the
person or organization holding or sponsoring the special event;
      17.   Applicant signature and property owner's signature, if different
from applicant; and
      18.   Any other information requested by the city, acting through its
assistant city administrator or chief of police deemed reasonably necessary in
order to determine the nature of the special event and the extent of any
special services required.
   B.   Time For Filing: A special event permit application must be filed with
the city at least thirty (30) days in advance of the date in which the special
event is to occur.
   C.   Permit Fee: An applicant for a special event permit must pay a
nonrefundable permit fee in the amount established from time to time by the
city's fee ordinance. (Ord. 2014-07, 4-1-2014)
5-7-5: PERMIT REVIEW:
   A.   Application: Upon receipt of a special event permit application, the
assistant city administrator shall be responsible for promptly processing the
application, including conferring with department heads and the applicant as
necessary to implement the provisions of this section, and, when required by
this section, forwarding the processed application to the city council with a
recommendation to approve, approve with conditions or modifications, or deny
the special event permit application.
   B.   Special Services: The assistant city administrator shall promptly
distribute copies of the application for review by the head of each department
in cases where special services are requested or will be necessary. Each such
department head shall review the application and evaluate the special services
and shall report to the assistant city administrator, with a recommendation
that the application and the requested special services be approved, approved
with conditions or modifications, or denied. Each department head shall also
provide the assistant city administrator with a cost estimate for the special
services associated with his or her department.
   C.   Review: When a special event will not require any special services or
does not require a significant amount of special services, the assistant city
administrator and police chief may review the permit application
administratively. In cases where a special event requires a significant amount
of special services, the application will be presented to the city council for
review. The city council may hold a public hearing on the permit application.
It may also refer the permit application to the planning commission for its
review and recommendation.
   D.   Permit Denial: The city may deny an application for a special event
permit if it determines from a consideration of the application or other
pertinent information, that:
      1.   The information contained in the application or supplemental
information requested from the applicant is false or nonexistent in any
material detail;
      2.   The applicant fails to supplement the application after having been
notified by the city of additional information or documents needed;
      3.   The applicant fails to agree to abide or comply with all of the
conditions and terms of the special event permit, including payment of all
costs and expenses;
      4.   The special event would substantially or unnecessarily interfere
with traffic in the city, would interfere with access to the fire station or
fire hydrants, or would interfere with access to businesses or residences in
the immediate vicinity of the event and there are not sufficient city resources
available at the time of the event to mitigate the disruption;
      5.   The special event is of the size or nature that requires the
diversion of so many law enforcement officers to properly police the event,
site and contiguous areas that allowing the special event would unreasonably
deny law enforcement protection to the remainder of the city and its residents;
      6.   The proposed date and time of the special event conflicts with a
previously scheduled event and there are not available at the time of the
proposed special event sufficient city resources to provide services for both
events without substantially or unnecessarily interfering with police, fire,
water, public works or other services to the city as a whole;
      7.   The location of the special event will substantially interfere with
any construction or maintenance work scheduled to take place upon or along
public property or right of way;
      8.   The special event would likely endanger the public safety or health;
      9.   The special event would substantially or unnecessarily interfere
with police, fire, water, public works or other services to the city as a whole
and there are not available at the time of the proposed event sufficient city
resources to mitigate the disruption;
      10.   The applicant fails to comply with the liability insurance
requirements or the applicant's insurance lapses or is canceled;
      11.   The special event would likely create or constitute a public
nuisance;
      12.   The special event would be likely to cause significant damage to
public property or facilities;
      13.   The special event would engage in or encourage participants to
engage in illegal acts; or
      14.   The applicant, responsible party or the person on whose behalf the
application is submitted has on prior occasions made material
misrepresentations regarding the nature and extent of special services required
for a special event in the city, or has violated the terms of a prior special
event permit.
      15.   The special event does not comply with all applicable Federal or
State laws, including but not limited to Building, Fire, and Electrical Codes.
(Ord. 2014-07, 4-1-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-003, 2-7-2023)
5-7-6: PERMIT ISSUANCE:
   A.   Permitted Areas: Because of the predominantly residential character of
the city and the relatively small size of the commercially zoned areas
resulting in the potential for conflicting uses, special events will be
permitted within the city only after a finding by the city that the character
of the proposed special event is compatible with the character of the
surrounding neighborhood considering the possible creation of problems
including noise, lighting, traffic, sanitation, congestion and other factors
affecting the public health, safety and welfare of such areas in addition to
compliance with all ordinances of this city and applicable statutes and
regulations.
   B.   Permit Conditions: The city may condition the issuance of a special
event permit by imposing reasonable conditions concerning the time, place and
manner of the special event, and such conditions as are necessary to protect
the safety of persons and property, and the control of traffic; provided that
such conditions shall not unreasonably restrict the right of free speech. The
city may inspect the property upon which the special event is to be held prior
to the event in order to make certain there is compliance with all permit
conditions. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Alteration of the date(s), time(s), route(s) or location of the
special event proposed;
      2.   Elimination of an activity at the special event which cannot be
mitigated to a point as to ensure public safety and welfare, or which causes
liability to the city;
      3.   Requirements concerning the area of assembly and disbanding of a
parade or other events occurring along a route;
      4.   Requirements concerning the accommodation of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, including restricting the event to only a portion of the street or
right of way;
      5.   Requirements for the use of special services;
      6.   Requirements for the use of traffic cones or barricades;
      7.   Requirements for the provision of first aid or sanitary facilities;
      8.   Requirements for the use of special event monitors and the providing
notice of the special event's permit's conditions to the event's participants;
      9.   Requirements on the number and type of vehicles, animals or
structures to be allowed at the special event and the inspection and approval
of floats, structures and decorated vehicles by the city for safety purposes;
      10.   Compliance with animal protection ordinances and laws;
      11.   Requirements for the use of garbage containers and the cleanup and
restoration of any public property;
      12.   Restrictions on the use of amplified sound, public address systems
and the playing of music and musical instruments and compliance with noise
ordinances, regulations and laws;
      13.   Limitations on the maximum attendance;
      14.   Requiring notice of the special event to be provided to surrounding
property owners; and
      15.   Restrictions on the sale or consumption of food or alcohol.
      16.   Requirements to assure compliance with all applicable Federal or
State laws, including but not limited to Building, Fire, and Electrical Codes.
   C.   Permit Issuance: When a special event will not require any special
services or does not require a significant amount of special services, the
assistant city administrator may issue the special event permit
administratively. In cases where a special event requires a significant amount
of special services, the application will be presented to the city council for
approval. (Ord. 2014-07, 4-1-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-003, 2-7-2023)
5-7-7: SPECIAL SERVICES FEES:
   A.   Special Services Fee Deposit: If any special services are to be used
during the special event, the applicant may be required to pay a special
services fee deposit at least five (5) days before the special event. The
special services fee deposit shall be determined by the assistant city
administrator. It shall be based upon an estimate of special services that are
necessary as determined by the city's department heads.
   B.   User Fee: Upon completion of the special event, the city may prepare a
detailed account of all special services provided for the special event and in
such cases, will set the final user fee using the rates, fees and charges
established as provided in this section. The city will then provide the
authorized and responsible person identified in the special event permit
application with a copy of the detailed account of the special services and an
invoice for the user fee, less the fee deposit. The balance of the user fee
will then become due and payable immediately upon its receipt.
   C.   Special Services Rates: The rates charged for the use of city
personnel, equipment, facilities and right of way shall be set by the city's
fee ordinance. (Ord. 2014-07, 4-1-2014)
5-7-8: INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT:
If the special event requires special services, prior to the issuance of a
special event permit, the permit applicant and authorizing officer of the
sponsoring organization, if any, must sign an agreement to indemnify, defend
and hold the city, its officials, employees, and agents harmless from any claim
that arises in whole or in part out of the special event, except any claims
arising solely out of the negligent acts or omissions of the city, its
officials, employees and agents. (Ord. 2014-07, 4-1-2014)
5-7-9: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Liability Insurance Required: The applicant or sponsor of a special
event must possess or obtain liability insurance to protect against loss from
liability imposed by law for damages on account of bodily injury or property
damage arising from the special event. A certificate of insurance must be filed
with the city prior to issuance of the special event permit. The certificate of
insurance must name the city, its officials, employees and agents as additional
insured. Insurance coverage must be maintained for the duration of the special
event.
   B.   Minimum Limits: Insurance coverage must be a commercial general
liability policy. The minimum limits must be at least one million dollars
($1,000,000.00). If alcoholic beverages are to be sold or distributed at the
special event, the policy must also include an endorsement for liquor
liability. The city may require additional endorsements depending upon the type
of special event and the proposed activities.
   C.   Waiver Or Reduction Of Required Limits: The city may waive or reduce
insurance requirements of this section under the following circumstances:
      1.   The applicant or officer of the sponsoring organization signs a
verified statement that it believes that the special event's purpose is first
amendment expression and that the cost of obtaining the insurance is so
financially burdensome that it would constitute an unreasonable burden on the
right of first amendment expression;
      2.   The applicant or officer of the sponsoring organization signs a
verified statement that the insurance coverage required by this section is
impossible to obtain; or
      3.   The city determines that the insurance requirements are in excess of
the reasonable risk presented by the proposed special event. (Ord. 2014-07, 4-
1-2014)
5-7-10: OVERNIGHT CAMPING:
No person holding a permit for a special event shall allow and no participant
in a special event shall camp overnight at the location of a special event,
except for a reasonable number of persons required to maintain security. (Ord.
2014-07, 4-1-2014)
5-7-11: COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT:
   A.   Unlawful To Sponsor A Special Event Without A Permit: It is unlawful
for any person to sponsor or conduct a special event requiring a permit
pursuant to this section unless a valid special event permit has been issued
for the event.
   B.   Unlawful To Exceed The Scope Of The Permit: The special event permit
authorizes the special event permittee or sponsor to conduct only such a
special event as is described in the permit, and in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the permit. It is unlawful for the permittee or sponsor to
wilfully violate the terms and conditions of the permit. (Ord. 2014-07, 4-1-
2014)
5-7-12: PERMIT REVOCATION:
A special event permit may be revoked by the city at any time for failure to
comply with the provisions of this chapter and conditions of the permit. (Ord.
2014-07, 4-1-2014)
5-7-13: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Injunction: The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by
injunction in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Public Nuisance: The holding of a special event in violation of any
provision or condition contained in this chapter will be deemed a public
nuisance and may be abated as such. Issuance of a special event permit by the
city does not preclude the right of an individual to pursue a private nuisance
action against the applicant. (Ord. 2014-07, 4-1-2014)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
STATE TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Traffic Regulations Adopted
6-1-2: Vehicle Weight Restriction
6-1-3: Unreasonable Acceleration
6-1-4: Snowmobiles And All-Terrain Vehicles
6-1-5: Motorized Vehicles On Rush Lake
6-1-1: STATE TRAFFIC REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
   A.   Adopted: The regulatory provisions of Minnesota statutes, 1971, chapter
169, as amended, commonly known as the highway traffic regulations act is
hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating the use of highways, streets
and alleys within the city and is hereby incorporated herein and made a part of
this chapter as completely as if set out herein in full.
   B.   Penalty: Any violation of this statute adopted by reference is a
violation of this chapter when it occurs within the limits of the city. Any
person violating any provision thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 21.1, 2-15-1972; amd. 2002 Code)
6-1-2: VEHICLE WEIGHT RESTRICTION 1 :
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall drive or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved on any road in the city any vehicle or other object of a size
or weight exceeding the weight permitted as indicated by signs that have been
posted at each end of such road.
   B.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 24, 3-10-1973; amd. 2002 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See sections 6-2-2 and 6-2-3 of this title.
6-1-3: UNREASONABLE ACCELERATION:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall start or accelerate any motor vehicle with
an unnecessary exhibition of speed on any public or private way within the
city. Prima facie evidence of such unnecessary exhibition of speed shall be
squealing or screeching sounds emitted by the tires or the throwing of sand or
gravel by tires of said vehicle or both.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 32, 12-6-1978; amd. 2002 Code)
6-1-4: SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES:
   A.   Applicability: This section applies to the operation of snowmobiles and
all-terrain vehicles on public lands and waters, on private property within the
jurisdiction of the city and on public rights of way within the boundaries of
the city.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions are applicable:
    ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE OR ATV: A motorized flotation- tired vehicle of not
less than three (3) low pressure tires, but not more than six (6) tires, that
is limited in engine displacement of less than eight hundred (800) cubic
centimeters and includes a class 1 all-terrain vehicle and a class 2 all-
terrain vehicle.
   CLASS 1 ATV: An ATV that has a total dry weight of less than nine hundred
(900) pounds.
   CLASS 2 ATV: An ATV that has a total dry weight of nine hundred (900) to one
thousand five hundred (1,500) pounds.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: All lands other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Lands owned by or controlled under easement to the United
States, the state or any political subdivision thereof.
Or, the words, combination of words, terms or phrases used in this section and
defined in Minnesota state statutes sections 84.82 and 84.92, shall have the
meanings given them by those sections.
   C.   Adoption Of State Law By Reference: The provisions of Minnesota state
statutes sections 84.82 through 84.929 are hereby adopted and made a part of
this section as if set out in full. Said sections define terms used in this
section, require registration and licensing, restrict operation upon state and
county highways, regulate necessary equipment and provide penalties for
violations therefor.
   D.   Operation On State And County Highways:
      1.   Snowmobiles are not permitted upon the roadway, shoulder or inside
bank or slope of any state or county highway.
      2.   All-terrain vehicles, depending on their class and use, may be
operated on the extreme right hand side of county and state highways, but shall
be limited as set forth in Minnesota statutes section 84.928.
   E.   Crossing Public Rights Of Way: Snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles may
cross state, county and city highways and streets as long as:
      1.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
(90°) to the direction of the public right of way and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing; and
      2.   The snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle is brought to a complete stop
before crossing the shoulder or main traveled way of the highway; and
      3.   The driver yields the right of way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
      4.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway; and
      5.   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half (1/2) hour
after sunset to one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced
visibility, only if both front and rear lights are on.
   F.   Operation On City Rights Of Way:
      1.   No Snowmobile Zone: This zone would prohibit the operation of
snowmobiles on city rights of way. The city council, may, from time to time,
adopt an official map defining the boundaries of the no snowmobile zone. As of
this time the city of Baxter has not adopted a no snowmobile zone.
      2.   No All-Terrain Vehicles Zone: This zone would prohibit the operation
of all-terrain vehicles on city rights of way. The city council, may, from time
to time, adopt an official map defining the boundaries of the no all-terrain
vehicle zone.
      3.   Operation Of Snowmobiles And All-Terrain Vehicles On All Other
Public Rights Of Way: Except for the provisions of subsection C of this
section, one may operate a snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle:
         a.   In the ditch bottom or outside slope of County Road 48 and State
Highways 371 and 210.
         b.   Upon the improved surface area of any city street for the purpose
of taking the most direct route to or from the owner's or operator's residence
to the nearest designated trail system or other permitted use area.
   G.   Operation Of Snowmobiles Or All-Terrain Vehicles On State, County Or
City Trails: One may operate a snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle on city,
county or state trails accessed from established trailheads or other points
where access is permitted as long as said trail is specifically marked
authorizing the use of snowmobiles or all-terrain vehicles.
   H.   Operation Of Snowmobiles Or All-Terrain Vehicles On Private Property:
One may operate a snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle on private property as long
as one has written permission from the owner. Operation on private property
must not be in a repetitive, continuous nature.
   I.   Miscellaneous Rules Regarding Operation Of Snowmobiles And All-Terrain
Vehicles: It is unlawful to operate a snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle within
the city:
      1.   On public lands, including, but not limited to: public parks,
playgrounds, city trail systems, sidewalks, paths, scenic and historic sites,
schools, and other public buildings and structures;
      2.   Upon private property without the written permission of the owner or
person entitled to possession thereof;
      3.   During the hours between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. of the day next following Sunday through Thursday, and the
hours between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of the day
next following, Friday and Saturday;
      4.   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all of
the surrounding circumstances or in any instance in excess of twenty (20) miles
per hour upon a public street;
      5.   At a speed greater than ten (10) miles per hour when within one
hundred feet (100') of any lakeshore except in channels or when within one
hundred feet (100') of a fisherman, icehouse, skating rink or sliding area, or
where the operation would conflict with the lawful use of property or would
endanger other persons or property;
      6.   At any place while under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
narcotics or habit forming drugs;
      7.   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to
endanger the person or property of another or to cause injury or damage
thereto;
      8.   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise
which disturbs, annoys, or interferes with the peace and quiet of other
persons;
      9.   In a manner so as to intentionally drive, chase, run over, kill or
otherwise take or attempt to take any animal, wild or domestic.
   J.   Youth Operation: Youthful operation in the city of Baxter is governed
by the regulations set forth in Minnesota state statutes sections 84.872 and
84.9256.
   K.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment of
not more than ninety (90) days, or both, plus costs of prosecution in either
case. (Ord. 2008-8, 4-15-2008)
6-1-5: MOTORIZED VEHICLES ON RUSH LAKE:
   A.   Purpose, Intent And Application: As authorized by Minnesota statutes
86B.201, 86B.205, and 459.20, and Minnesota rules 6110.3000–6110.3800 as now in
effect and as hereafter amended, this section is enacted for the purpose and
with the intent to control and regulate the use of the waters of Rush Lake in
the city of Baxter, county of Crow Wing, state of Minnesota, said body of water
being located entirely within the municipal boundaries of Baxter, to promote
its fullest use and enjoyment by the public in general and the citizens of
Baxter in particular; to ensure safety for persons and property in connection
with the use of said waters; to harmonize and integrate the varying uses of
said waters; and to promote the general health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of Baxter, Minnesota.
   B.   Definitions: Terms used in this section relating to boating are defined
in Minnesota statutes section 86B.005.
   C.   Surface Zoning: No motorized boats or other motorized watercraft shall
be permitted upon the open waters of Rush Lake. Motorized vehicles shall be
permitted, according to all other rules and regulations, upon Rush Lake when
the lake is covered with ice.
   D.   Exemptions: All authorized resource management, emergency and
enforcement personnel, while acting in the performance of their assigned
duties, are exempt from the foregoing restrictions.
   E.   Enforcement: The primary responsibility for enforcement of this section
shall rest with the city of Baxter police department and the Crow Wing County
sheriff's office. This shall not preclude, however, the enforcement by other
licensed peace officers.
   F.   Notification: The city of Baxter shall post notice of this section at
any public access to Rush Lake and at other reasonable locations.
   G.   Penalties: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2004-12, 9-8-2004)
CHAPTER 2
STREET USE; PARKING
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Vehicle Restrictions
6-2-3: Seasonal Weight Restrictions
6-2-4: No Parking, Stopping Or Standing Zones
6-2-5: Time Limit Parking Zones
6-2-6: Impoundment
6-2-7: Prima Facie Evidence
6-2-8: Truck Zones; Loading Zones
6-2-9: Snow Emergency Routes
6-2-10: Police Duties
6-2-11: Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Any term used in this chapter and defined in Minnesota statutes section 169.01
has the meaning given it by that section. (Ord. 41, 4-3-1984)
6-2-2: VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Designation By Council: The city council, by resolution, may designate
streets on which travel by vehicles in excess of nine thousand (9,000) pounds'
gross weight is prohibited.
   B.   Erection Of Signs: The city road superintendent shall erect appropriate
signs on such streets.
   C.   Violation Prohibited: No person shall operate a heavy vehicle (as
defined in subsection A of this section) on such posted streets in violation of
the restrictions stated.
   D.   Public Right Of Way: No person shall park any commercial vehicle in or
on a public right of way. For the purposes of this section, "commercial
vehicle" shall include all buses, trucks, tractors, truck-tractors and
semitrailers as defined in Minnesota statutes section 168.002. Note that in
said section 168.002 pickup trucks and vans are considered passenger
automobiles and not trucks.
   E.   Commercial Trucks: Truck-tractors, as defined in Minnesota statutes
chapter 168.002, subdivision 38, shall not idle, nor shall any refrigeration
unit thereon run for a period of more than five (5) minutes in any residential
district or within one hundred feet (100') of any such district except for
emergency, safety or maintenance reasons.
   F.   Exceptions: The following circumstances shall not be considered a
violation of this section:
      1.   Commercial vehicles parked within the right of way actively engaged
in loading, unloading or currently providing a service.
      2.   Truck-tractors and/or semitrailers associated with public or private
construction and parked within five hundred feet (500') of the construction
location.
      3.   The parking of truck-tractors and/or semitrailers on private
property which is primarily used for commercial or industrial purposes although
it is zoned residential as long as such use has existed continuously since
December 18, 2001. (Ord. 2009-7, 5-5-2009)
6-2-3: SEASONAL WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Authority Of City Road Superintendent: The city road superintendent may
prohibit the operation of vehicles upon any street under his jurisdiction or
impose weight restrictions on vehicles to be operated on such street whenever
the street, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic
conditions, will be seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles
on the street is prohibited or the permissible weight thereof reduced.
   B.   Erection Of Signs: The city road superintendent shall erect and
maintain signs plainly indicating the prohibition or restriction at each end of
that portion of the street affected.
   C.   Violation Prohibited: No person shall operate a vehicle on a posted
street in violation of the prohibition or restriction. (Ord. 41, 4-3-1984)
6-2-4: NO PARKING, STOPPING OR STANDING ZONES:
   A.   Designation By City Council: The city council may, by resolution,
designate certain streets or portions of streets as no parking or no stopping
or standing zones or as zones for parking by physically handicapped persons and
may limit the hours in which the restrictions apply.
   B.   Erection Of Signs: The road superintendent shall mark, by appropriate
signs, each zone so designated.
   C.   Stopping, Parking Prohibited: Except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
a traffic control device, no person shall stop or park a vehicle in an
established no stopping or standing zone when stopping or standing is
prohibited.
   D.   Parking Prohibited; Exception: No vehicle shall be parked in a no
parking zone during hours when parking is prohibited except as permitted by
state law and except that a vehicle may be parked temporarily in such zone for
the purpose of forming a funeral procession.
   E.   Winter Parking:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle or permit it to
stand on any street between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. from November 15 to April 15 in each succeeding year.
Variances to this article may be granted by the Council in cases where abutting
property owners cannot provide off street parking in accordance with the
provisions of this article and where other special circumstances exist which
are beyond the owner's control, and conditions affect abutting property owners
so that a strict application of the provisions of this article deprive the
applicant of the reasonable use of his land. The Council may consider such
things as:
         a.   Topographic conditions;
         b.   Nonconforming uses where limited public right-of-way and
inability to get vehicles off the public street make it impossible for the
owner to provide off-street parking;
         c.   The effect the variance will have on public safety and the public
welfare.
      2.   All variances shall terminate on April 15 of each year and new
application must be filed for the following year. (Ord. 41, 4-3-1984; amd. Ord.
2023-023, 10-17-2023)
6-2-5: TIME LIMIT PARKING ZONES:
   A.   Designation By City Council: The city council may, by resolution,
designate certain areas where the right to park is limited during hours
specified.
   B.   Erection Of Signs: The city road superintendent shall mark by
appropriate signs each zone so designated.
   C.   Specified Periods: During the hours specified on the sign, no person
shall park a vehicle in any limited parking zone for a longer period than is so
specified.
   D.   Maximum Limit: No vehicle shall be parked upon any street in any one
place for a longer continuous period than twenty four (24) hours. (Ord. 41, 4-
3-1984)
6-2-6: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Power To Impound: Any police officer may remove a vehicle from a street
to a garage or other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended and
constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal or street
improvement or maintenance operations.
   B.   Release; Fees: Such vehicle shall not be released until the fees for
towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed for violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 41, 4-3-1984)
6-2-7: PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE:
The presence of any motor vehicle on any street when standing or parked in
violation of this chapter is prima facie evidence that the registered owner of
the vehicle committed or authorized the commission of the violation. (Ord. 41,
4-3-1984)
6-2-8: TRUCK ZONES; LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Establishment Of Zones: The city council may, by resolution, establish
spaces in streets as loading zones or truck zones.
   B.   Request For Establishment Of Zone:
      1.   Application: Any person desiring the establishment of a loading zone
or truck zone abutting premises occupied by him shall make written application
therefor to the city council.
      2.   Costs: If the council grants the request, the proper city officer
shall bill the applicant for the estimated cost of placing signs and of
painting the curb.
      3.   Installation Of Sign; Painting Of Curb: When the amount is paid to
the city treasurer, the chief of police shall install the necessary signs and
paint the curb. (Ord. 41, 4-3-1984)
6-2-9: SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES:
   A.   Parking Restricted: Except as provided below, no person shall stop,
stand or park any vehicle or be permitted to stand upon any street during a
snow emergency as follows:
      1.   On a snow emergency route for a period of twenty four (24) hours
from the declaration of the emergency;
      2.   On any other north-south street on any odd numbered days;
      3.   On any other east-west street on any even numbered days;
      4.   On any other street contrary to the directions designated on any
signs posted by the city road superintendent.
   B.   Snow And Ice Cleared: The prohibitions of subsection A of this section
shall not apply on any block after it has become substantially clear of snow
and ice from curb to curb. (Ord. 41, 4-3-1984)
6-2-10: POLICE DUTIES:
   A.   Authority To Enforce: The police department shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter and the state traffic laws.
   B.   Direct Traffic: Police officers are authorized to direct all traffic
within the city, either in person or by means of visible or audible signal, in
conformity with this chapter and the state traffic laws.
   C.   Fire Or Emergency: During a fire or other emergency or to expedite
traffic or safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department may direct
traffic as conditions require notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter
and the state traffic laws.
   D.   Assistance From Fire Department: Officers of the fire department may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic at the scene of a fire or in
the immediate vicinity. (Ord. 41, 4-3-1984)
6-2-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 41, 4-3-1984; amd. Ord. 41.1, 1-2-1996; 2002 Code;
Ord. 2023-023, 10-17-2023)
CHAPTER 3
JUNK OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Junk Vehicles
6-3-1-1: Definitions
6-3-1-2: Parking And Storage Prohibited
6-3-1-3: Nuisance Declared
6-3-1-4: Penalty
6-3-2: Abandoned Motor Vehicles
6-3-2-1: Definitions
6-3-2-2: Power To Impound
6-3-2-3: Notice Of Impoundment
6-3-2-4: Redemption
6-3-2-5: Unclaimed Vehicles; Sale
6-3-2-6: Penalty
6-3-1: JUNK VEHICLES:
6-3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section
6-3-1, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section:
JUNK VEHICLE: A vehicle that:
   A.   Is three (3) years old or older;
   B.   Is extensively damaged, with the damage including such things as broken
or missing wheels, motor, drive train, or transmission;
   C.   Is apparently inoperable;
   D.   Does not have a valid, current registration plate; and
   E.   Has an approximate fair market value equal only to the approximate
value of the scrap in it.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the city which is not a street or highway.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of any way or
place when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984; amd. 2002 Code)
6-3-1-2: PARKING AND STORAGE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person in charge or control of any property within the
corporate limits of the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or
otherwise, to allow or in any manner permit any junk vehicle to remain on such
property for a period longer than ninety six (96) hours, unless housed within a
lawfully erected building or unless the junk vehicle is on the premises of a
bona fide business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner and such
junk vehicle is necessary to the operation of such business enterprise. (Ord.
42, 6-5-1984)
6-3-1-3: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any violation of this section
6-3-1 is hereby declared to be a public nuisance pursuant to the authority
granted in Minnesota statutes section 412.221, subdivision 23, and subject to
further provisions of title 4, chapter 1 of this code. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984)
6-3-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person who parks or stores a junk vehicle within city limits in violation
hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984; amd. 2002 Code)
6-3-2: ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES:
Notwithstanding title 1, chapter 9 of this code, the following shall apply to
abandoned motor vehicles: (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984)
6-3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section
6-3-2, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: A. A motor vehicle as defined in Minnesota statutes section
168B.011 that:
1. Has remained illegally: a) for a period of more than forty eight (48) hours
on any property owned or controlled by a unit of government, or more than four
(4) hours on that property when it is properly posted; or b) on private
property for a period of time, as determined under Minnesota statutes section
168B.04, subdivision 2, without the consent of the person in control of the
property; and
2. Lacks vital component parts or is in an inoperable condition such that it
has no substantial potential for further use consistent with its usual
functions, unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building.
   B.   A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in Minnesota statutes section
168.10, is not considered an abandoned vehicle.
   C.   Vehicles on the premises of junk yards and automobile graveyards that
are defined, maintained, and licensed in accordance with Minnesota statutes
section 161.242, or that are licensed and maintained in accordance with local
laws and zoning regulations, are not considered abandoned vehicles.
   D.   A vehicle being held for storage by agreement or being held under
police authority or pursuant to a writ or court order is not considered
abandoned, nor may it be processed as abandoned while the police hold, writ, or
court is in effect.
VITAL COMPONENT PARTS: Those parts of a motor vehicle that are essential to the
mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including such things as the motor,
drive train and wheels. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984; amd. 2002 Code)
6-3-2-2: POWER TO IMPOUND:
The city police department shall take into custody and impound any abandoned
motor vehicle. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984)
6-3-2-3: NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Notice Required: When an abandoned motor vehicle is taken into custody,
the police department shall give notice of the taking within ten (10) days.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: The notice shall set forth the date and place of
the taking, the year, make, model and serial number of the abandoned motor
vehicle and the place where the vehicle is being held, shall inform the owner
and any lienholders of their right to reclaim the vehicle under section
6-3-2-4 of this chapter, and shall state that failure of the owner or
lienholders to exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle be deemed a waiver
by them of all right, title and interest in the vehicle and consent to the sale
of the vehicle at a public auction pursuant to section
6-3-2-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Service Of Notice: The notice shall be sent by certified mail to the
owner, if any, of the abandoned motor vehicle and to all readily identifiable
lienholders of record. If it is impossible to determine with reasonable
certainty the identity and address of the registered owner and all lienholders,
the notice shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the
area where the motor vehicle was abandoned. Published notices may be grouped
together for convenience and economy. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984)
6-3-2-4: REDEMPTION:
   A.   Right To Reclaim: The owner or any lienholder of an abandoned motor
vehicle shall have a right to reclaim such vehicle from the city, upon payment
of all towing and storage charges resulting from taking the vehicle into
custody within fifteen (15) days after the date of the notice required by
section
6-3-2-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Garagekeeper Lien; Right To Foreclose: Nothing in section
6-3-2-2 or
6-3-2-3 of this chapter shall be construed to impair any lien of a garagekeeper
under the laws of this state, or the right of a lienholder to foreclose. For
the purpose of this section, "garagekeeper" is an operator of a parking
facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair or
maintenance of motor vehicles. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984)
6-3-2-5: UNCLAIMED VEHICLES; SALE:
   A.   Sale; Notice: An abandoned motor vehicle taken into custody and not
reclaimed under section
6-3-2-4 of this chapter shall be sold to the highest bidder at public auction
or sale, following two (2) weeks published notice thereof.
   B.   Receipt: The purchaser shall be given a receipt which shall be
sufficient title to dispose of the vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the
purchaser to register the vehicle and receive a certificate of title, free and
clear of all liens and claims of ownership.
   C.   Immediate Sale: When an abandoned motor vehicle is more than seven (7)
model years of age, is lacking vital component parts, and does not display a
license plate currently valid in Minnesota or any other state or foreign
country, it shall immediately be eligible for sale at public auction, and shall
not be subject to the notification, reclamation, or title provisions of
sections
6-3-2-3 or
6-3-2-4 of this chapter.
   D.   No Bid Received: Where no bid has been received for an abandoned motor
vehicle, the city may dispose of it pursuant to contract under Minnesota
statutes section 68B.10.
   E.   Proceeds Of Sale: From the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor
vehicle, the city shall reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving and
storing the vehicle, and all notice and publication costs incurred pursuant to
this section
6-3-2. Any remainder from the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the owner of
the vehicle or entitled lienholder for ninety (90) days and then be deposited
in the city treasury. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984)
6-3-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person who abandons a motor vehicle on any public or private property,
without the consent of the person in control of such property, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 42, 6-5-1984; amd. 2002 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREET NAMING
SECTION:
7-1-1: Purpose
7-1-2: Definitions
7-1-3: General Naming Requirements
7-1-1: PURPOSE:
To establish an official plan for a coordinated address system for locating 911
emergencies, maintaining continuity in addressing throughout the city and
future annexed areas, for providing for the administration thereof. This plan
is intended to be compatible with the 911 emergency telephone system
established by Minnesota statutes, chapter 403. (Ord. 2004-3, 1-20-2004)
7-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
OFFICIAL ROADWAY MAP: The city map maintained by the public works director
which depicts all public and private roads.
SIGN: A 911 address sign provided by the city to implement this addressing
system.
STRUCTURE: Any building, manufactured home, residence or physical point (i.e.,
bridge, telephone booth, tower) which is addressed for the purpose of location
in emergency situations. (Ord. 2004-3, 1-20-2004)
7-1-3: GENERAL NAMING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Official Road Names: Road names for 911 addressing may differ from
original plat names. Upon adoption hereof, road names as shown on the official
Baxter city map shall be the official road names and may only be changed by
resolution of the Baxter city council.
   B.   Road Naming Criteria:
      1.   A road name may not be duplicated with that of any presently
represented street, avenue, road, drive, circle, court within Crow Wing County
or any surrounding township or community. Exceptions may be made if the
proposed road is in general alignment with a road, which in all probability
will connect, or is a continuation of an existing named road. A separate road
name may not be approved for a proposed road if it is a continuation or could
be related in any way to the alignment of an existing named road.
      2.   All road or private roadways shall be named and indicated on the
official Baxter city map if they service more than two (2) residential or
commercial structures.
      3.   Names with similar spellings, pronunciations or meanings may be
construed as being duplications.
      4.   Road names shall not exceed sixteen (16) characters.
      5.   Names of north-south roadways shall be representative of plants,
trees, woods, wildlife, natural or geological features and further be
designated "drive".
      6.   East-west roadways shall be named after cities and further be
designated "road".
      7.   Cul-de-sacs may be named similar to the street with which they
intersect and designated as "court".
   C.   Sign Requirements:
      1.   A 911 address sign is required for each residence. A sign will be
issued and installed by the city. The sign specifications shall be as required
by the city of Baxter. A "city of Baxter house numbering sign specifications"
sheet shall be on file at city hall.
      2.   The 911 address sign shall meet the design and installation
requirements as set by city of Baxter. The "city of Baxter 911 house numbering
design standards and placement template" shall be on file at city hall. In
general, the sign should be placed on a post set within ten feet (10') of the
primary driveway and in a location clearly visible from the road. The post
should be located at least ten feet (10') from the edge of the road surface and
within the road right of way if possible.
      3.   On a corner lot, the 911 address sign should face the street named
in the address.
   D.   Numbering Criteria For 911 Addressing:
      1.   Address numbers for individual structures shall be determined and
assigned using the Crow Wing County single quadrant datum addressing system
utilizing a global positioning system to obtain the latitude and longitude
location of the structure's driveway. The "0" point of this addressing system
is two (2) miles west from the south section corner common to sections 34 and
35 in Fort Ripley township on the extension of the south line of the county.
      2.   Address numbers shall increase by one thousand (1,000) addresses per
mile, east and north from the "0" point, allowing five hundred (500) possible
addresses for each side of the road.
      3.   Each road will be designated either an east/west or north/south
road. Even numbers will be applied to the north and east sides, and odd numbers
will be applied to the south and west sides. All address numbers will increase
or decrease consecutively according to direction of travel on a road.
      4.   The GPS coordinates for each structure shall be taken from the point
where the edge of the traveled roadway and center point of the driveway
intersect and must be within one to three meters (3 m) of accuracy.
      5.   Before the issuance of a building permit for any new structure, the
applicant shall submit a detailed site plan to scale depicting exact driveway
location, or place a marker on site indicating center of driveway location.
Fees related to addressing shall be set by the city as set forth in the
planning and zoning fee schedule. Said schedule shall be available at city
hall.
      6.   Vacant lots will not be issued an address.
      7.   Structures with more than one living unit or one business
(apartments, retail centers, etc.) shall be assigned one address number for the
building and shall use unit, suite or apartment numbers for each tenant.
   E.   Compliance:
      1.   The city planner shall confirm that any new plat or other such
permit will depict road names that comply with this chapter in the sole
discretion of the city.
      2.   No utility shall provide service to any new structure until a valid
address has been issued by the city.
      3.   The resident, owner or caretaker of any structure shall be
responsible for maintaining a sign which displays the address number that is
visible from the roadway in a manner as prescribed by the public works
director. Said person shall keep the sign in good repair, free of snow or dirt
and visible from the roadway. The cost of a replacement sign and installation
will be paid by the property owner.
      4.   No person may alter, deface or remove any 911 house number sign or
road sign erected in accordance with this chapter.
      5.   Anyone in violation of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2004-3, 1-20-2004)
CHAPTER 2
OFFICIAL MAPS; PROCEDURE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Purpose
7-2-2: Official Map Defined
7-2-3: Initiation Of Proceedings
7-2-4: Sketch Maps; Reports
7-2-5: Referral To Planning And Zoning Commission
7-2-6: Notice; Hearing
7-2-7: Preparation And Filing Of Maps
7-2-8: Effect
7-2-9: Appeals
7-2-10: Penalty
7-2-1: PURPOSE:
Land that is needed for future street purposes and as sites for other necessary
public facilities and services is frequently diverted to nonpublic uses which
could have been located on other lands without hardship or inconvenience to the
owners. When this happens, public uses of land may be denied or may be obtained
only at prohibitive cost or at the expense of dislocating the owners and
occupants of the land. Identification on an official map of land needed for
future public uses permits both the public and private property owners to
adjust their building plans equitably and conveniently before investments are
made which will make such adjustments difficult to accomplish. It is the
purpose of this chapter to provide a uniform procedure for the proper use of
official maps as authorized by the Minnesota municipal planning act, Minnesota
statutes sections 462.351 through 462.36. (Ord. 65, 11-7-1995)
7-2-2: OFFICIAL MAP DEFINED:
"Official map" as used in this chapter means a map adopted in accordance with
this chapter showing existing streets, proposed future streets and the area
needed for widening of existing streets of the city. An official map may also
show the location of existing and future land and facilities within the city.
An official map may cover the entire city or any portion of the city. (Ord. 65,
11-7-1995)
7-2-3: INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS:
Proceedings for adoption, amendment, or repeal of an official map or any part
thereof may be initiated by:
   A.   A recommendation of the planning and zoning commission; or
   B.   Action by the city council on its own initiative, recommendation of an
advisory commission, request of an outside governmental body, or petition of
the owners of two (2) or more parcels of affected property. (Ord. 65, 11-7-
1995; amd. 2002 Code)
7-2-4: SKETCH MAPS; REPORTS:
Every proposal or request for an official map or its amendment or repeal,
however initiated, shall be accompanied by a sketch map or plat showing the
lands proposed to be included and the public purpose to be served. The council
may request a report of the city engineer as to the feasibility of any
construction involved. (Ord. 65, 11-7-1995)
7-2-5: REFERRAL TO PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
Except when proceedings have been initiated by recommendation of the planning
and zoning commission, every proposed official map or change in a map shall be
referred to the planning and zoning commission for advice and recommendation
thereon, and such recommendation shall be submitted to the city council within
sixty (60) days after reference to the planning and zoning commission along
with the report of the commission on the effect of the proposal on the
comprehensive plan of the city. If no recommendation is received by the council
from the planning and zoning commission within sixty (60) days after reference
of the proposal to the commission by the council, the council may take such
action as it may deem proper upon the proposal without further action by the
planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 65, 11-7-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
7-2-6: NOTICE; HEARING:
   A.   Hearing Called By Council: Upon receiving the recommendation of the
planning and zoning commission or after sixty (60) days from the submission of
the proposal to the planning and zoning commission without a recommendation
from the commission, the council may call a public hearing on the proposal.
(Ord. 65, 11-7-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   Publication: A notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing
and a description of property to be included in the mapped streets and public
grounds shall be published in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days
prior to the date of the hearing.
      2.   Notice By Mail: At least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the
Clerk shall also mail a copy of the notice to each owner of land situated
within or abutting any street or other public ground shown on the official map.
For purposes of this notice, the owners shall be determined by the records of
the county auditor, and the notice shall be addressed to the last known address
as shown by the auditor's records. Failure to serve any such notice shall not
invalidate the proceedings.
   C.   Hearing: At the time and place specified in the notice, the council
shall hear evidence and arguments concerning the proposal. The hearing may be
continued from time to time, not exceeding sixty (60) days, without further
notice. A final vote on the proposal shall be taken by the council within such
sixty (60) day period. (Ord. 65, 11-7-1995)
7-2-7: PREPARATION AND FILING OF MAPS:
   A.   Preparation; Detail: The official map shall be prepared in sufficient
detail to permit the establishment of future acquisition lines on the ground.
In unplatted areas, a minimum of a center line survey shall be made prior to
the preparation of the final draft of the official map.
   B.   Accuracy; Attested By Surveyor: The accuracy of the future acquisition
lines shown on the official map shall be attested to by a registered land
surveyor.
   C.   Filing With County Recorder: After the enactment of any ordinance
adopting an official map or amending or repealing a previous official map
ordinance, a certified copy of the official map or section to which the
ordinance relates, together with an attached copy of the ordinance, shall be
filed with the county recorder. (Ord. 65, 11-7-1995)
7-2-8: EFFECT:
   A.   Building Permits: After an official map has been adopted and filed, the
issuance of building permits by the city shall be subject to the provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   Applications Denied: The building inspector shall deny every
application for a permit to construct a new building or structure or expand an
existing building or structure within any area designated on the official map
for street or other public purposes or within the required setback as set forth
in title 10 of this code.
   C.   City Not Required To Pay For Buildings Or Structures: Whenever any
street or highway is widened or improved or any new street is opened, or any
interest in lands for other public purposes is acquired by the city, the city
is not required in such proceedings to pay for any building or structure placed
without a permit or in violation of conditions of a permit within the limits of
the mapped street or outside of any building line that may have been
established upon the existing street or within any area thus identified for
public purposes. The adoption of an official map does not give the city any
right, title or interest in areas identified for public purposes thereon, but
the adoption of the map does authorize the city to acquire such interest
without paying compensation for buildings or structures erected in such areas
without a permit or in violation of the conditions of a permit.
   D.   Rights Of County Or State: In situations involving a county or state
highway, the county or the state shall be entitled to exercise all rights
granted to the city under this chapter. (Ord. 65, 11-7-1995)
7-2-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Building Permit Denied; Power Of Council: Whenever a building permit is
denied pursuant to this chapter, the city council may, upon appeal filed with
it by the owner of the land, and after receiving the advice and recommendations
of the planning and zoning commission, grant a permit for building in an area
designated on the official map for a street or other public purpose in any case
in which the city council finds, upon the evidence and the arguments presented
to it, 1) the entire property of the appellant of which the area designated for
public purposes forms a part cannot yield a reasonable return to the owner
unless such a permit is granted; and 2) balancing the interest of the city in
preserving the integrity of the official map and of the comprehensive city plan
and the interest of the property owner in the use of his property and in the
benefits of ownership, the grant of such permit is required by considerations
of justice and equity.
   B.   Failure Or Commission To Report: Failure of the planning and zoning
commission to report on the proposal within sixty (60) days after referral of
the matter to it is deemed to be the recommendations and advice of the planning
and zoning commission. (Ord. 65, 11-7-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Hearing; Notice: The city council shall hold a public hearing upon the
appeal after notice of the hearing has been published in the official newspaper
once at least ten (10) days before the hearing.
   D.   Council Action:
      1.   If the city council authorizes issuance of a permit, it shall
specify the exact location, ground area, height, and other details as to the
extent and character of the building for which the permit is granted.
      2.   If the city council authorizes issuance of a permit, the council
shall have six (6) months from the date of the decision of the city council to
institute proceedings to acquire such land or interest therein, and if no such
proceedings are started within that time, the city shall issue the permit if
the application otherwise conforms to local ordinances. (Ord. 65, 11-7-1995)
7-2-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, plus the costs of prosecution. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 65, 11-7-1995; amd.
2002 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC PARKS AND BEACHES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Parks And Beaches Identified
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Regulations
7-3-4: Penalty
7-3-1: PARKS AND BEACHES IDENTIFIED:
   A.   Description: The regulations in this section shall apply to the
following parks, beaches and city properties as described within the city of
Baxter: Whipple Beach area; Oscar Kristopherson Park; Loren Thompson Park;
Berrywood Park; Southdale Park; Mississippi Overlook Park; Riverview Park;
Winkler Park; the water tower property at Woida Road and Inglewood Drive; the
water tower property on Hastings Road; future park site at intersection of
Jewelwood Drive and Atwater Road; future park site located between Inglewood
Drive and Grand Oaks Drive and also adjacent to the bike trail between those
roads; and other city properties as indicated in green coloring on the city of
Baxter parks and trails map. (Ord. 2010-12, 8-2-2010)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing more than one-half of one percent
alcohol by volume.
CITY FACILITIES: Buildings owned or operated by the city, including owned or
operated outdoor areas of the lot or parcel on which the building is situated.
E-CIGARETTE: Any electronic-smoking device that can be used to deliver nicotine
or any other substances to the person inhaling from the device, including, but
not limited to, electronic cigarettes, electronic cigars, electronic pipes or
any other similar device.
PARKS: Any open or enclosed land and improvements or facility wherever located
which is owned, leased or operated by the city and which is reserved,
designated or used for a playground, picnic area, garden area, beach, or other
recreational or open space area.
SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted cigar, cigarette,
e-cigarette, pipe, weed, or plant in any manner or in any form. (Ord. 2010-12,
8-2-2010; amd. Ord. 2019-016, 9-17-2019)
7-3-3: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Alcohol Consumption: There will be no consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the aforedescribed properties at any time.
   B.   Hours: It shall be unlawful for any person to be present on the
aforedescribed properties, nor shall any person park a vehicle in or on any
park or parking lot within park property, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   C.   Animals:
      1.   Pets are permitted on the above mentioned city properties with the
exception of Whipple Beach. It is deemed in the interests of the general public
health, welfare and safety that all animals or pets be prohibited from entering
upon or remaining at the public beach (Whipple Beach) within the city. It is,
therefore, ordained that no person shall allow his animal or pet or any such
animal or pet under his control to enter upon or remain at the public beach
within the city.
      2.   Where animals are permitted, they shall be restricted at all times
by a leash and under command of the owner or custodian.
      3.   No person shall permit a dog or other animal to disturb, harass or
interfere with or endanger any visitor or visitor's property. No person shall
tether and leave unattended any dog or animal to a tree, plant, building or
park equipment.
      4.   Any person having the custody or control of any dog or animal shall
have the duty to immediately remove any feces left by such animal in any park
and to dispose of such feces in a sanitary manner. The provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to a guide dog accompanying a blind person or to a
dog when used in police or rescue activities.
   D.   Prohibition Of Smoking In Certain Areas: Smoking is prohibited in the
following areas:
      1.   Parks;
      2.   City facilities;
      3.   All locations where smoking is prohibited by the Minnesota Clean
Indoor Air Act.
   E.   Where Smoking Not Regulated: Notwithstanding any other provision of
this section to the contrary, the following areas shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section:
      1.   In designated outdoor areas of city facilities; and
      2.   City streets, easements, sidewalks, trails (except trails, sidewalks
and paths adjacent to or within parks) and paths.
   F.   Posting Of Signs:
      1.   "No Smoking" signs or the international "No Smoking" symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
outside every city facility and park.
      2.   All ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia shall be removed from
every area where smoking is prohibited under this section. (Ord. 2010-12, 8-2-
2010; amd. Ord. 2019-016, 9-17-2019; Ord. 2023-024, 10-17-2023)
7-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. (Ord. 2010-12, 8-2-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-024, 10-17-2023)
CHAPTER 4
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
7-4-1: Findings, Purpose, And Intent
7-4-2: Election To Manage The Public Rights-Of-Way
7-4-3: Definitions
7-4-4: Administration
7-4-5: Registration And Right-Of-Way Occupancy
7-4-6: Registration Information
7-4-7: Permit Requirement
7-4-8: Permit Applications
7-4-9: Issuance Of Permit; Conditions
7-4-10: Permit Fees
7-4-11: Standards For Construction Or Installation
7-4-12: Small Wireless Facilities
7-4-13: Right-Of-Way Patching And Restoration
7-4-14: Joint Trench Applications
7-4-15: Supplementary Applications
7-4-16: Other Obligations
7-4-17: Denial Of Permit
7-4-18: Installation Requirements
7-4-19: Inspection
7-4-20: Work Done Without A Permit
7-4-21: Supplementary Notification
7-4-22: Revocation Of Permits
7-4-23: Mapping Data
7-4-24: Location And Relocation Of Facilities
7-4-25: Preexcavation Facilities Location
7-4-26: Damage To Other Facilities
7-4-27: Right-Of-Way Vacation
7-4-28: Indemnification And Liability
7-4-29: Abandoned And Unusable Facilities
7-4-30: Right-Of-Way Prohibitions
7-4-31: Appeal
7-4-32: Severability
7-4-33: Landowner Requirements
7-4-1: FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT:
To provide for the health, safety and welfare of its citizens, and to ensure
the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-way, the
City strives to keep its rights-of- way in a state of good repair and free from
unnecessary encumbrances.
Accordingly, the City hereby enacts this chapter relating to right-of-way
permits and administration. This chapter imposes reasonable regulation on the
placement and maintenance of facilities and equipment currently within its
rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some future time. It is intended to
complement the regulatory roles of State and Federal agencies. Under this
chapter, persons excavating and obstructing the rights-of-way will bear
financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this chapter provides for
recovery of out of pocket and projected costs from persons using the public
rights-of-way.
This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws, chapter
123, substantially codified in Minnesota Statutes sections 237.16, 237.162,
237.163, 237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the "Act") and the other laws governing
applicable rights of the City and users of the right-of-way. This chapter shall
also be interpreted consistent with Minnesota Rules 7819.0050 where possible.
To the extent any provision of this chapter cannot be interpreted consistently
with the Minnesota rules, that interpretation most consistent with the Act and
other applicable statutory and case law is intended. This chapter shall not be
interpreted to limit the regulatory and police powers of the City to adopt and
enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the public. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-2: ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
Pursuant to the authority granted to the City under State and Federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the City hereby elects, pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes section 237.163 subdivision 2(b) to manage rights-of-way
within its jurisdiction. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this chapter. References hereafter to
"sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references to sections in this
chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms, whether or not capitalized.
ABANDONED FACILITY: A facility no longer in service or physically disconnected
from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other facility, that is
in use or still carries service; or a facility that is declared abandoned by
the right- of-way user.
AESTHETICS (Also Known As CONCEAL OR CONCEALMENT OR STEALTH DESIGN): Refers to
state-of-the-art design techniques used to blend the object into the
surrounding environment and to minimize the negative aesthetic impacts.
APPLICANT: Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way.
CITY: The City of Baxter, Minnesota. "City" also means its elected officials,
officers, employees, and agents.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure that is owned privately or by a local government
unit.
COMMISSION: The State Public Utilities Commission.
CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY: A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with Minnesota Statutes section 216D.04 subdivision 3 over a
continuous length in excess of five hundred feet (500').
CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND: Any of the following forms of security provided
at permittee's option:
   A.   Cash deposit.
   B.   Irrevocable letter of credit in a form acceptable to the City.
DELAY PENALTY: The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in right-
of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established by
permit.
DEPARTMENT: The Department of Public Works of the City.
DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR: Any person authorized by the City to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this chapter.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Department of Public Works of the City, or her or
his designee.
EMERGENCY: A condition that: a) poses a danger to life or health or of a
significant loss of property or b) requires immediate repair or replacement of
facilities in order to service a customer.
EQUIPMENT: Any tangible asset used in the process of construction,
installation, repair or maintenance of facilities in any right-of-way.
EXCAVATE: To dig into, directionally bore, or in any way remove or physically
disturb or penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
FACILITY OR FACILITIES: Any tangible asset(s) in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service, including wireless service. The term does not include
facilities to the extent the location and relocation of such facilities are
preempted by Minnesota Statutes section 161.45 governing utility facility
placement in State trunk highways.
GROUND-MOUNTED EQUIPMENT: Equipment used in the operation of a wireless
facility that is located on the ground and protrudes above the surface
elevation of the ground.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Shall be interpreted broadly and specifically includes,
without limitation, asbestos containing materials, fuel, batteries or any
hazardous substance, waste, or material as defined in any Federal, State or
local environmental or safety laws or regulation including, but not limited to
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
(CERCLA).
HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR: A designated portion of the public right- of-way within
which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and competing
facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a common conduit
system or other common structure.
HOLE: An excavation in the pavement with the excavation having a length less
than the width of the pavement.
LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE: A local person or persons, or designee of such person or
persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and make decisions for
that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is no larger than
twenty four inches (24") long, fifteen inches (15") wide, and twelve inches
(12") high, and whose exterior antenna, if any, is no longer than eleven inches
(11").
OBSTRUCT/OBSTRUCTION: To place any tangible object in a right-of- way so as to
hinder free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
PATCH OR PATCHING: A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A patch consists of: a) the compaction of the subbase and aggregate
base, and b) the replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum
of two feet (2') beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions.
Sidewalks and trails shall also be replaced full width.
PAVEMENT: Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-way
and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
PERMIT: Has the meaning given "right-of-way permit" in Minnesota Statutes
section 237.162.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a permit or small wireless facility permit to
excavate or obstruct a right-of-way has been granted by the City under this
chapter.
PERSON: An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this State,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate or political.
POTHOLING: Excavating the area above an underground facility to determine the
precise location of the underground facility without damage to it, before
excavating within three feet (3') of the marked location of the underground
facility.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway,
street, cartway, bicycle lane or public sidewalk in which the City has an
interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and
utility easements of the City. A right-of-way does not include the airwaves
above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other nonwire
telecommunications or broadcast service. Public right-of-way includes outlots,
parks, and drainage and utility easements.
PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURE: Includes a utility pole and any structure or pole
supporting wires for communication or transmission of data or roadway lighting.
REGISTRANT: Any person who: a) has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities
located in any right-of-way, or b) in any way occupies, or uses, or seeks to
occupy or use the right-of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the
right-of-way.
RESTORATION COST: The amount of money paid to the City by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to the City of Baxter's most recent
revision of the "Public Works Policy Manual".
RESTORE OR RESTORATION: The process by which an excavated right- of-way and
surrounding area including pavement foundation sidewalk and trail is returned
to the condition in the City of Baxter's most recent revision of the "Public
Works Policy Manual".
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT COSTS: A. The actual costs the City incurs in managing
its public rights-of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those
associated with registering applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying
right-of-way or small wireless facility permit applications; inspecting job
sites and restoration projects; maintaining, supporting, protecting, or moving
user equipment during public right-of-way work; determining the adequacy of
right-of-way restoration; restoring work inadequately performed after providing
notice and the opportunity to correct the work; and revoking right-of-way or
small wireless facility permits.
   B.   Management costs do not include:
1. Payment by a telecommunications right-of-way user for the use of the public
right-of-way;
2. Unreasonable fees of a third-party contractor used by the City as part of
managing its public rights-of-way, including but not limited to any third-party
contractor fee tied to or based upon customer counts, access lines, revenue
generated by the telecommunications right- of-way user, or revenue generated
for a local government unit; or
3. The fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of this
definition or of Minnesota Statutes sections 237.162 or 237.163, or the City's
fees and costs related to appeals taken pursuant to section 237.163,
subdivision 5.
RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT: A permit to perform work in a public right- of-way,
whether to excavate or obstruct the right-of-way.
RIGHT-OF-WAY USER: A. A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by
Minnesota Statutes section 237.162 subdivision 4; or
   B.   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that is
used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a right
under law, franchise or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
SERVICE LATERAL: An underground facility that is used to transmit, distribute,
or furnish gas, electricity, communications, water, or sanitary sewer from a
common source to an end use customer. A service lateral is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer premises.
SERVICE OR UTILITY SERVICE: Includes: a) those services provided by a public
utility as defined in Minnesota Statutes 216B.02 subdivision 4 and 6; b)
services of a telecommunications right- of-way user including transporting of
voice, or data information; c) services of a cable communications system as
defined in Minnesota Statutes chapter 238; d) natural gas or electric energy or
telecommunications services provided by the City; e) services provided by a
cooperative electric association organized under Minnesota Statutes chapter
308A; and f) water, and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling or
heating services.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
1. Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic
feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements, the
antenna and all its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of no more
than six (6) cubic feet; and
2. All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility,
excluding electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding equipment, power transfer
switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical cable runs for the
connection of power and other services, and any equipment concealed from public
view within or behind an existing structure or concealment, is in aggregate no
more than twenty eight (28) cubic feet in volume; or
   B.   A micro wireless facility.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT: A right-of-way permit that includes placing a
new wireless support structure or collocating small wireless facilities on
wireless support structures in the public right-of-way.
SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION: An application made to excavate or obstruct more of
the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already been
issued.
TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY USER: A person owning or controlling a facility
in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the right-of-
way that is used or is intended to be used for transporting telecommunication
or other voice or data information. For purposes of this chapter, a cable
communication system defined and regulated under Minnesota Statutes chapter
238, and telecommunication activities related to providing natural gas or
electric energy services whether provided by a public utility as defined in
Minnesota Statutes section 216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power
agency organized under Minnesota Statutes chapters 453 and 453A or a
cooperative electric association organized under Minnesota Statutes chapter
308A, are not telecommunications right-of-way users.
TEMPORARY SURFACE: The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation.
TRENCH: An excavation in the right-of-way having a length equal to or greater
than the width of the right-of-way for the sections of roadway where the work
is occurring, including a directional bore.
UTILITY POLE: A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
WIRELESS FACILITY: A. "Wireless facility" means equipment at a fixed location
that enables the provision of wireless services between user equipment and a
wireless service network, including:
1. Equipment associated with wireless service;
2. A radio transceiver, antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and
backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological
configuration; and
3. A small wireless facility.
   B.   "Wireless facility" does not include:
1. Wireless support structures;
2. Wireline backhaul facilities; or
3. Coaxial or fiber-optic cables: a) between utility poles or wireless support
structures, or b) that are not otherwise immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with a specific antenna.
WIRELESS SERVICE: Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless spectrum,
including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means of a mobile
device, that is provided using wireless facilities. Wireless service does not
include services regulated under title VI of the Communications Act of 1934, as
amended, including cable service under United States Code, title 47, section
522, clause (6).
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A new or existing structure in a public right-of-
way designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the City.
WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY: A facility used to transport communications data by
wire from a wireless facility to a communications network. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-
19-2019)
7-4-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The Director is the principal City official responsible for the administration
of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances related thereto.
The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder. (Ord. 2019-003,
3-19-2019)
7-4-5: REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Registration: Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease or assignment, must register with the City. Registration will
consist of providing application information and paying a registration fee.
   B.   Registration Prior To Work: No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the City.
   C.   Exceptions: This chapter shall not regulate landowners working within
the right-of-way immediately adjacent to their lot and on their side of the
actual street surface (not working within or under the improved [bituminous,
gravel or concrete] surface of the street). See section
7-4-33 of this chapter for regulation of said landowners. In addition,
contractors working at the request of such a homeowner and in this same area,
must register as set forth below, but they shall not be required to post any
cash deposit or irrevocable letter of credit as required for more involved work
within the right-of-way.
This chapter shall not regulate contractors connecting to City sanitary sewer
and water lines to privately owned structure. See title 3, chapter 14 of this
Code for registration requirements. However, nothing herein relieves a person
from complying with the provisions of the Minnesota Statutes chapter 216D,
Gopher One Call Law. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-6: REGISTRATION INFORMATION:
   A.   Information Required: The information provided to the City at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      2.   Each registrant's name, Gopher One Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      3.   A certificate of insurance:
         a.   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota acceptable to the City; and
         b.   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the: 1) use and occupancy of the right-of- way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and 2) placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities and collapse of property; and
         c.   Naming the City as an additional insured as to whom the coverages
required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will be
provided as to all such coverages; and
         d.   Requiring that the City be notified thirty (30) days in advance
of cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         e.   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile liability
coverage, workers' compensation and umbrella coverage. The limits of the
coverage shall not be less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
      4.   The City will require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      5.   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under Minnesota Statutes 302A.151 as recorded and
certified to by the Secretary of State.
      6.   The registrant shall submit a cash deposit or irrevocable letter of
credit in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) to the City of
Baxter. The security is to ensure compliance with the approved plan.
      7.   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable State or
Federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such certificate
from said commission or other State or Federal agency.
   B.   Notice Of Changes: The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the City information as to
changes within fifteen (15) days following the date on which the registrant has
knowledge of any change. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-7: PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this Code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate right-of-way permit from the City to do so.
      1.   Permit: A permit is required by a registrant to excavate or
directionally bore that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and
to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way
by placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
   B.   Permit Extensions: No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless: 1) such person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and 2) a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   C.   Permit Display: Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the City.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   This chapter shall not regulate landowners working within the right-
of-way immediately adjacent to their lot and on their side of the actual street
surface (not working within or under the improved [bituminous, gravel or
concrete] surface of the street). See section
7-4-33 of this chapter for regulation of said landowners. In addition,
contractors working at the request of such a homeowner and in this same area,
must obtain a permit for this work, but there shall be no fee for this permit
as required for more involved permitted work within the right-of-way. However,
any such permit holder, by agreeing to work in this area with a no-fee permit
agrees that the City may recover damages as set forth in subsection 7-4-13F of
this chapter.
This chapter shall not regulate contractors connecting to City sanitary sewer
and water lines to privately owned structure. See title 3, chapter 14 of this
Code for registration requirements. However, nothing herein relieves a person
from complying with the provisions of the Minnesota Statutes chapter 216D,
Gopher One Call Law.
      2.   Since the following list of activities is routine and typically
nonintrusive, the utility providers need not apply for a permit. However, said
providers will still be registered as set forth above and any damage to the
right-of-way shall be repaired by the provider or the City may use the cash
deposit or letter of credit to make said repairs in their behalf. The following
is a list of activities that shall not require a permit:
         a.   Tree trimming within the right-of-way.
         b.   Streetlight bulb or pole replacement or other routine maintenance
to existing streetlights or other above grade transformers and inverters. (Ord.
2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-8: PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
Application for a permit is made to the City. Right-of-way permit applications
shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon compliance with, the
requirements of the following provisions:
   A.   Registration with the City pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Submission of completed permit application form, including all required
attachments, a scaled drawing showing the location and area of the proposed
project and the location of all proposed facilities, a traffic control plan, a
restoration plan, a timeline for the proposed project, and, if requested by the
Director, a scaled drawing showing the location of all known existing
facilities and a public notification plan. All such applications shall be
consistent with the provisions of this chapter and good engineering, safety,
and maintenance practices shall be followed for the work or activity conducted
under the right-of-way permit.
   C.   The application shall require the applicant to defend, indemnify and
hold the City harmless from all liability or claims of liability for bodily
injury or death to persons, or for property damage, for those claims specified
in Minnesota Rule 7819.1250, subpart 2.
   D.   If the City has suffered any undisputed loss, damage, or expense
because of the applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the public
right-of-way or any emergency actions relating thereto, the Director may
require the applicant to reimburse the City for such expense before considering
a new permit application for approval.
   E.   Before granting any permit under any of the provisions of this chapter,
the Director may impose such insurance, bonding, letter of credit, cash
deposit, or other financial security requirements thereon as deemed necessary
to properly safeguard persons or property exposed to the work or activity. Such
insurance shall also protect the City and its employees from any suit, action
or cause of action arising by reason of such work or activity.
   F.   If requested by the Director, an applicant for a right-of-way permit
shall provide mapping information in accordance with Minnesota Rules 7819.4000
and 7819.4100.
   G.   Payment of money due the City for:
      1.   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs, and other management
costs;
      2.   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      3.   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the City because
of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way or any
emergency actions taken by the City;
      4.   Franchise fees or other charges if applicable;
      5.   Posting an additional or larger irrevocable letter of credit and/or
cash deposit for additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation
permit to install additional facilities and the City deems the existing
irrevocable letter of credit and/or cash deposit inadequate under applicable
standards. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-9: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS:
   A.   Permit Issuance: Upon the Director's determination that the applicant
has satisfied the requirements of this section, the Director shall issue the
right-of-way permit subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter. The
Director may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance of the right-of-way
permit and the performance of the permit holder to protect the health, safety,
and welfare of the public or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its
current use. In addition, a permit holder shall comply with all requirements of
local guide specifications and standard details as well as all local, State and
Federal laws, including but not limited to Minnesota Statutes chapter 216D and
Minnesota Rules chapter 7560 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System).
   B.   Conditions: The City may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance
of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to protect the
health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and
its current use.
   C.   Notice: The applicant must provide ten (10) days' written notice to any
landowners lying adjacent to any permitted work. Mailed notice to the address
used for tax purposes as shown at City Hall shall suffice for notice.
   D.   Permit Display: Right-of-way permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the Director.
   E.   Permit Extensions: A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area of
the public right-of-way specified in the permit and for the dates specified in
the permit. No permit holder may do any work outside of the area specified in
the permit or begin its work before the permit start date or continue working
after the permit end date. Any permit holder desiring to obstruct or excavate
an area greater than that specified in the permit or desiring to perform work
on dates not specified in the permit shall apply for a new or extended right-
of-way permit and pay any additional fees required by the City. The permit
holder shall obtain the new or extended permit before performing any work not
allowed by the original permit.
   F.   Denial Of Permit: The City may deny a right-of-way permit for failure
to meet the requirements and conditions of this section, if the applicant has
existing facilities in the right-of-way that are in a state of structural or
aesthetic disrepair, or if the City determines that the denial is necessary to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use. The City shall notify the
applicant in writing within three (3) business days of its decision to deny the
permit. Upon denial, the applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
City and resubmit its application. If the applicant resubmits the application
within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice of the denial, no
additional filing or processing fee shall be required. The City shall approve
or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days after the revised
application is submitted. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-10: PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Permit Fee: The City shall establish a permit fee in an amount
sufficient to recover the following costs:
      1.   Right-of-way management costs;
      2.   Degradation costs if applicable;
      3.   City labor and engineering costs.
   B.   Payment Of Permit Fees: The City shall impose the permit fee at the
time it issues a right-of-way permit. The City, in its sole discretion, may
require payment of the permit fee: 1) at the time of permit issuance; 2) within
thirty (30) days of billing; or 3) through an annual billing. Failure to pay
permit fees when due may result in suspension or revocation of a right-of-way
permit. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise agreement, permit fees may be
charged separately from and in addition to the franchise fees imposed on a
right-of-way user in the franchise agreement.
   C.   Nonrefundable Fee: Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the
City has revoked for a breach are not refundable. Permit fees shall not be
refunded if permittee cancels permit.
   D.   Application To Franchises: Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
right-of-way management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to
the franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise. (Ord. 2019-
003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-11: STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION:
   A.   General Standards: Excavation, backfilling, patching, restoration, and
all other work performed in the right-of-way must be done in conformance with
all applicable Minnesota Statutes and Administrative Rules, including without
limitation Rules 7819.5000 and 7819.5100, all requirements of this Code, and
local guide specifications and standard details that are consistent with
Minnesota Statutes sections 237.162 and 237.163. Installation of service
laterals must be performed in accordance with Minnesota Rules chapter 7560 and
this Code. The permit holder shall comply with the following additional
standards when performing the work authorized under the right-of-way permit:
      1.   Take such precautions as are necessary to avoid creating unsanitary
conditions.
      2.   Conduct the operations and perform the work in a manner that insures
the least obstruction to and interference with traffic.
      3.   Take adequate precautions to insure the safety of the general public
and those who require access to abutting property.
      4.   Notify adjoining property owners prior to commencement of work which
may disrupt the use of and access to such adjoining properties.
      5.   Comply with the Minnesota Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices
at all times during construction or installation.
      6.   Exercise caution at all times for the protection of persons,
including employees, and property.
      7.   Protect and identify excavations and work operations with barricade
flags and, if required, by a flag person in the daytime and by warning lights
at night. All traffic control devices shall conform to the latest addition of
the Minnesota Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices, including the latest
edition of the Field Manual for Temporary Traffic Control Zone Layouts.
      8.   Provide proper trench protection as required by the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration in order to prevent cave-ins endangering life.
      9.   Protect the root growth of trees and shrubbery.
      10.   If possible, provide for space in the installation area for other
right-of-way users.
      11.   Maintain access to all properties and cross streets as possible
during construction and installation and maintain emergency vehicle access at
all times.
      12.   Maintain alignment and grade unless otherwise authorized by the
City. Changes not approved by the City will require removal and reconstruction.
      13.   During plowing or trenching of facilities, a warning tape must be
placed at a depth of twelve inches (12") above copper cables with over two
hundred (200) pairs and above fiber facilities.
      14.   Below concrete or bituminous paved road, sidewalk and trail
surfaces, directional bore facilities must be installed in conduit of a type
determined by the permit holder.
      15.   The placing of all facilities must comply with the National
Electric Safety Code, as incorporated by reference in Minnesota Statutes
section 326B.35.
      16.   At the direction of the Director, facilities being installed or
relocated within a high density corridor shall be placed in a common conduit
system or share other common structures.
      17.   A Minnesota licensed surveyor shall be used to locate property
lines, install property pins, and replace any destroyed property pins at
corners.
      18.   Excavations, trenches, and jacking pits off the roadway or adjacent
to the roadway or curbing shall be sheathed and braced depending upon location
and soil stability and as directed by the City.
      19.   Excavations, trenches, and jacking pits shall be protected when
unattended to prevent entrance of surface drainage.
      20.   All backfilling must be placed in six inch (6") layers at optimum
moisture and compacted with the objective of attaining ninety five percent
(95%) of Standard Proctor. Compaction shall be accomplished with hand,
pneumatic, or vibrating compactors as appropriate.
      21.   Backfill material shall be subject to the approval of the Director.
The Director may permit backfilling with the material from the excavation
provided such material is acceptable to the Director.
      22.   Compacted backfill shall be brought to bottom of the aggregate base
of the approved street section.
      23.   All work performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance
with local guide specifications and standard details, unless a less stringent
standard is approved by the Director.
      24.   Street and pedestrian traffic shall be maintained throughout
construction unless provided otherwise by the permit.
      25.   No lugs damaging to roadway surfaces may be used.
      26.   Dirt or debris must be removed daily during construction, which may
require the use of a mechanical sweeper.
      27.   Above-ground utility markers may not be installed except as
authorized by the Director.
      28.   Above-ground utility cabinets, pedestals, and boxes shall be
identified with a durable external sign or marker reflecting the name and
contact information of the owner of the facility.
      29.   Other reasonable standards and requirements of the Director.
   B.   Standards For Installation, Relocation Or Replacement Of Underground
Utilities: The right-of-way permit holder shall comply with the following
standards when installing facilities underground:
      1.   Longitudinal installations, relocations, or replacement under
streets, sidewalks and trails are prohibited unless otherwise approved by the
Director.
      2.   Crossing of streets, sidewalks, trails, and hard surfaced driveways
shall be directional bored at a minimum depth of sixty inches (60") unless
otherwise approved by the Director.
      3.   Buried facilities below concrete or bituminous paved street, trail,
and sidewalk surfaces must be placed at a minimum depth of sixty inches (60").
Other buried facilities shall be placed at a minimum depth of three feet (3')
and a maximum depth of four feet (4') unless an alternate location is approved
in advance by the Director.
      4.   If construction is open cut, the permit holder must install the
visual tracers within twelve inches (12") and over buried facilities. If other
construction methods are used, substitute location methods will be considered.
      5.   The permit holder shall register with Gopher State One Call and
comply with the requirements of that system.
      6.   Compaction in a trench shall be ninety five percent (95%) of
Standard Proctor and copies of test results must be submitted to the Director.
Tests will be required at the discretion of the Director. Tests must be
conducted by an independent testing firm at locations approved by the Director.
The Director may require recompaction and new tests if densities are not met.
      7.   The facilities shall be located so as to avoid traffic signals and
signs, which are generally placed a minimum of three feet (3') behind the curb.
      8.   When utilizing trenchless installation methods to cross an area in
which a Municipal utility is located, and when directed by the City, the permit
holder shall excavate an observation hole over the utility to ensure that the
City utility is not damaged.
      9.   All junction boxes or access points shall be located no closer than
ten feet (10') from City hydrants, valves, manholes, lift stations, or catch
basins unless an alternate location is approved by the City.
      10.   Underground facilities shall not be installed between a hydrant and
an auxiliary valve.
      11.   Buried telecommunications facilities must have a locating wire or
conductive shield, except for dielectric cables.
      12.   Buried fiber facilities must be placed in a conduit of a type
determined by the right-of-way user unless the permit holder obtains a waiver
from the City.
   C.   Standards For Installation, Relocation, Or Replacement Of Overhead
Facilities: The right-of-way permit holder shall comply with the following
standards when installing facilities, other than small wireless facilities,
overhead:
      1.   All wires shall be a minimum of eighteen feet (18') above paved
surfaces and at a location that does not interfere with traffic signals,
overhead signs, or street lights.
      2.   Facilities shall be co-located on poles where possible.
      3.   Placing overhead facilities on both sides of the right-of-way is
prohibited unless specifically approved by the Director.
   D.   Trenchless Excavation: A right-of-way permit holder employing
trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited to horizontal
directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in Minnesota
Statutes chapter 216D and Minnesota Rules chapter 7560, and shall employ
potholing or open cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating
as determined by the City. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-12: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose And Findings: The City desires high quality wireless services
to accommodate the needs of residents and businesses. At the same time, the
City strives to minimize the negative impacts that small wireless facilities
can create. These negative impacts include, but are not limited to,
interference with right-of-way user sight lines, impacts to right-of-way user
circulation, incompatible aesthetics with the surrounding area, fall zone risk,
clear zone risk, creating navigation obstacles, interference with future travel
way expansion plans, interference with the delivery of other utility services,
interference with stormwater management facilities, and increased noise
pollution.
To minimize these negative impacts, any person desiring to place a new wireless
support structure in the right-of-way or collocate small wireless facilities on
existing privately-owned wireless support structures in the right-of- way shall
first obtain a small wireless facility permit from the City. Any person
desiring to collocate small wireless facilities on existing wireless support
structures owned or controlled by the City shall first enter into a standard
small wireless facility collocation agreement. The purpose of these
requirements is to comply with Minnesota Statutes sections 237.162 and 237.163
while at the same time protecting the public health, safety, and welfare.
The City will consider impacts to the public health, safety and welfare when
reviewing a small wireless permit application and a request to enter into a
small wireless facility collocation agreement. The public health, safety and
welfare can be best accommodated by locating small wireless facilities in the
following order, which affords the greatest protection of the public:
      1.   Locate outside of the right-of-way.
      2.   Locate in the right-of-way on or adjacent to principal arterial,
other arterial, major collector, or minor collector roads, as classified by the
Metropolitan Council Functional Classification System.
      3.   Collocate on existing wireless support structures within the right-
of-way.
      4.   Locate on a new wireless support structure within the right- of-way
that replaces an existing wireless support structure of the same height.
      5.   Locate on a new wireless support structure within the right- of-way
that replaces an existing wireless support structure whose height is less than
or equal to fifty feet (50').
      6.   Locate on a new wireless support structure within the right- of-way
whose height is similar to nearby structures.
      7.   Locate on a new wireless support structure within the right- of-way
whose height is less than or equal to fifty feet (50').
The City will also consider factors such as aesthetic compatibility of the
small wireless facility with surrounding structures, ability to eliminate,
underground, or screen ground-mounted equipment, dangers within the small
wireless facility fall zone, distance of the small wireless facility from
roads, sidewalks, trails and bicycle lanes, and future roadway, pedestrian,
bicycle, water, wastewater, and stormwater improvement plans for the site
before issuing small wireless facility permit or entering into a standard small
wireless facility collocation agreement.
   B.   Small Wireless Facility Permit: No person may place a new wireless
support structure within the right-of-way or collocate a small wireless
facility on an existing privately-owned wireless support structure in the
right-of-way without first obtaining a small wireless facility permit from the
City.
      1.   Permit Application And Fee: A written application for a small
wireless facility permit shall be submitted to the Director on a form provided
by the City. The applicant shall pay an application fee in the amount set forth
by the City, as the same may be amended from time to time. The application will
be processed in accordance with the requirements of Minnesota Statutes section
237.163, subd. 3c (b) and (c).
      2.   Consolidated Permit Application: An applicant may file a
consolidated permit application to collocate up to fifteen (15) small wireless
facilities, provided that the small wireless facilities in the application:
         a.   Are located within a two-mile radius;
         b.   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         c.   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support structures.
      3.   Permission From Owner: If the applicant seeks to collocate a small
wireless facility on an existing wireless support structure, the applicant
shall, at the time of application, provide the City with proof that it has
obtained the necessary authority from the owner of the wireless support
structure to collocate the small wireless facility on the structure.
      4.   Issuance Of Permit And Conditions: Upon the Director's determination
that the applicant has satisfied the requirements of this section, the Director
shall issue the small wireless facility permit. The Director may condition
permit approval on compliance with the following:
         a.   Generally applicable and reasonable health, safety, and welfare
regulations consistent with the City's authority to manage its public right-of-
way;
         b.   Reasonable accommodations for decorative wireless support
structures or signs; and
         c.   Any reasonable restocking, replacement, or relocation
requirements when a new wireless support structure is placed in the right-of-
way. In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the Director
may approve a permit for some small wireless facilities and deny a permit for
others, but may not use denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all
the small wireless facilities in the consolidated application.
      5.   Permit Denial: The Director may deny a small wireless facility
permit if he or she reasonably determines that the applicant has not satisfied
the requirements of this section or that approval of the permit would be
contrary to generally applicable and reasonable health, safety, and welfare
regulations. The City shall notify the applicant in writing within three (3)
business days of its decision to deny the permit. Upon denial, the applicant
may cure the deficiencies identified by the City and resubmit its application.
If the applicant resubmits the application within thirty (30) days of receiving
written notice of the denial, no additional filing or processing fee shall be
required. The City shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty
(30) days after the revised application is submitted.
      6.   Term: The term of a small wireless facility permit shall be equal to
the length of time that the small wireless facility is in use, unless earlier
revoked under this section.
      7.   Obstruction Or Excavation: A small wireless facility permit holder
whose approved work in the right-of-way involves obstruction or excavation of
the right-of-way shall also obtain a right-of-way permit from the City.
      8.   Requirements For New Wireless Support Structures: New wireless
support structures that comply with the following requirements may be placed in
the right-of-way after the issuance of a small wireless facility permit:
         a.   A new wireless support structure shall not exceed fifty feet
(50') above ground level and shall be separated from other wireless support
structures by a minimum of six hundred feet (600').
         b.   Notwithstanding subsection B8a of this section, a new wireless
support structure that replaces an existing wireless support structure that is
higher than fifty feet (50') above ground level may be placed at the height of
the existing wireless support structure.
         c.   The diameter of a new wireless support structure that replaces an
existing wireless support structure shall not exceed the diameter of the
existing wireless support structure by more than fifty percent (50%).
         d.   Wireless facilities constructed in the right-of-way after May 31,
2017 shall not extend more than ten feet (10') above an existing wireless
support structure in place as of May 31, 2017.
      9.   Requirements For Small Wireless Facilities: A small wireless
facility that complies with the following requirements may be located on a new
wireless support structure within the right-of- way or collocated on an
existing privately-owned wireless support structure within the right-of-way
after issuance of a small wireless facility permit:
         a.   The small wireless facility shall have limited exposed cabling
and mounting hardware. It shall also match the wireless support structure it is
attached to in color and, as close as practicable, in material and design.
         b.   The small wireless facility shall not interfere with public
safety wireless telecommunications.
         c.   Small wireless facilities in the right-of-way shall be removed
and relocated at the City's request and at no cost to the City when the
Director determines that removal and relocation is necessary to prevent
interference with: 1) present or future City use of the right-of-way for a
public project; 2) the public health, safety, or welfare; or 3) the safety and
convenience of travel over the right-of-way.
         d.   A small wireless facility attached to an existing wireless
support structure shall not block light emanating from the wireless support
structure and shall not otherwise interfere with the original use of the
wireless support structure.
         e.   Ground-mounted equipment associated with the small wireless
facility is prohibited unless the applicant can show that ground mounted
equipment is necessary for operation of the small wireless facility. If ground-
mounted equipment is necessary, it shall also meet the following standards:
            (1)   Ground-mounted equipment shall be placed below grade unless
not technically feasible;
            (2)   Ground-mounted equipment shall not disrupt traffic or
pedestrian circulation and shall not interfere with vehicle and pedestrian
intersection sight lines;
            (3)   Ground-mounted equipment shall not create a safety hazard;
            (4)   If placed above grade, ground-mounted equipment shall be
separated from the nearest ground-mounted equipment on the same block face by a
minimum of three hundred thirty feet (330') unless the equipment is placed
underground, or unless waived by the Director; and
            (5)   If placed above grade, ground-mounted equipment shall be
limited to three feet (3') in height and twenty eight (28) cubic feet in
cumulative size.
      10.   Exemptions: No small wireless facility permit is required to
conduct the following activities in the right-of-way:
         a.   Routine maintenance of a small wireless facility;
         b.   Replacement of a small wireless facility that is substantially
similar or smaller in size, weight, height, and wind or structural loading than
the small wireless facility being replaced; or
         c.   Installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with national Safety Codes.
If any of the above activities will obstruct the right-of- way, the small
wireless facility permit holder shall provide notification to the City at least
ten (10) days in advance of such activity.
   C.   Collocation On City-Owned Wireless Support Structure: No person may
collocate a small wireless facility on an existing wireless support structure
owned or controlled by the City without first entering into a Standard Small
Wireless Facility Collocation Agreement with the City.
   D.   New Structures: The erection in the public right-of-way of a new public
utility structure to support wireless facilities other than small wireless
facilities is prohibited, except where the Director determines there is a need
for additional roadway lighting, emergency warning siren, or other
infrastructure that must be supported by a public utility structure. Any new
structure erected to support wireless facilities other than small wireless
facilities allowed by the City under this paragraph and any associated or
attached equipment must comply with the requirements of this section.
   E.   Other Wireless Facilities: A telecommunications right-of-way user who
desires to place a new public utility structure or wireless facilities other
than small wireless facilities in the right-of-way shall enter into a license
agreement with the City for use of space that sets forth such terms and
conditions as the City deems appropriate and shall obtain any necessary right-
of- way permit. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-13: RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION:
   A.   Timing: The work to be done under the permit, and the patching and
restoration of the right-of-way as required herein must be completed within the
dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days as work could not be
done because of circumstances beyond the control of the permittee.
   B.   Patch And Restoration: Permittee shall patch and restore its own work.
The City may choose to restore the right-of-way itself if the work is not
completed in accordance with the deadlines outlined in the permit.
      1.   City Restoration: If the City restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within thirty (30) days of billing. If, following
such restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling
and compaction, the permittee shall pay to the City, within thirty (30) days of
billing, all costs associated with correcting the defective work.
      2.   Permittee Restoration: If the permittee restores the right-of- way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post an
irrevocable letter of credit and/or cash deposit.
   C.   Standards: The permittee shall perform excavation backfilling, patching
and restoration in accordance to the City of Baxter's "Public Works Policy
Manual" and title 8, chapter 5 of this Code.
   D.   Duty To Correct Defects: The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the City shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the City. Said work shall be
completed within five (5) calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the
City, not including days during which work cannot be done because of
circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonable or unreasonable.
   E.   Delay Penalty: The City may establish and impose a delay fee for
unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or
restoration, or for work not completed prior to right-of-way permit expiration.
The delay fee and associated fees shall be established from time to time by
City Council resolution. No delay fee shall be imposed if the delay is due to
circumstances beyond the control of the permit holder, including without
limitation inclement weather, acts of God, or civil strife.
   F.   Failure To Restore: If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the City, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the City, the
City at its option may do such work. In that event, the permittee shall pay to
the City, within thirty (30) days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-
of-way. If permittee fails to pay as required, the City may exercise its rights
to collect from the cash deposit and/or irrevocable letter of credit.
In addition, if permittee fails to pay as required and the damage was caused by
work done within the right-of-way that does not require the posting of a bond
or letter of credit as set forth in subsection 7-4-5C or 7-4-7D of this
chapter, the City may collect against any other bond or letter of credit on
deposit with the City as required by other provisions of this Code, may collect
against any bond with the State or other governmental unit again as required by
other law, may collect against its general liability insurance carrier or may
collect through District Court action against the permit holder directly. (Ord.
2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-14: JOINT TRENCH APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Joint Application: Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   B.   Shared Fees: Registrants who apply for permits for the same excavation,
which the City does not perform, may share in the payment of the permit fee. In
order to obtain a joint permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to
the portion each will pay and indicate the same on their applications.
   C.   City Projects: Registrants, who join in a scheduled excavation
performed by the City, whether or not it is a joint application by two (2) or
more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the permit
fee, but a permit would still be required. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-15: SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Limitation On Area: A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area of
the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work outside
the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any permittee
which determines that an area greater than that specified in the permit must be
obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area: 1) make
application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and 2) be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   B.   Limitation On Dates: A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit or an extension of the old permit before working after the end
date of the previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted
before the permit end date. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-16: OTHER OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Other Laws: Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the City or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, State and Federal laws, including, but not limited to, Minnesota
Statutes sections 216D.01 through 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice
System) and Minnesota Rules chapter 7560. A permittee shall perform all work in
conformance with all applicable codes and established rules and regulations,
and is responsible for all work done in the right-of-way pursuant to its
permit, regardless of who does the work.
   B.   Prohibited Work: Except in an emergency or with the approval of the
City, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   C.   Interference With Right-Of-Way: A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with City parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   D.   Trenchless Excavation: As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including, but not limited
to, horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
Minnesota Statutes chapter 216D and Minnesota Rules chapter 7560, and shall
require potholing or open cutting over existing underground utilities before
excavating, as determined by the Director. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-17: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
The City may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and conditions
of this chapter or if work is not completed on a previous permit issued to the
same applicant, or if the City determines that the denial is necessary to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-18: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minnesota Rules
7819.110 and the City of Baxter's "Public Works Policy Manual", insofar as they
are not inconsistent with the Minnesota Statutes sections 237.162 and 237.163.
Installation of service laterals shall be performed in accordance with
Minnesota Rules chapter 7560 and these ordinances. Service lateral installation
is further subject to those requirements and conditions set forth by the City
in the applicable permits and/or agreements. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-19: INSPECTION:
   A.   Notice Of Completion: When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
with Minnesota Rule 7819.1300.
   B.   Site Inspection: Permittee shall make the work site available to the
City and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   C.   Authority Of Director:
      1.   At the time of inspection the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work, which poses a serious threat to the life, health,
safety, or well-being of the public.
      2.   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten (10) days
after issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director
that the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented
within the required time, the Director may revoke the permit. (Ord. 2019-003,
3-19-2019)
7-4-20: WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT:
   A.   Emergency Situations: Each registrant shall immediately notify the
Director of any event regarding its facilities that it considers to be an
emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to
respond to the emergency. Excavators' notification to Gopher State One Call
regarding an emergency situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two
(2) business days after the occurrence of the emergency the registrant shall
apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill
the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with
this chapter for the actions it took in response to the emergency. If the City
becomes aware of an emergency regarding registrant facilities, the City will
attempt to contact the local representative of each registrant affected or
potentially affected by the emergency. In any event the City may take whatever
action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency the cost of which shall
be borne by the registrant whose facilities occasioned the emergency.
   B.   Nonemergency Situations: Except in an emergency any person who, without
first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a right-of-
way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double the normal
fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by this Code,
deposit with the City the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-003,
3-19-2019)
7-4-21: SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION:
If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the City of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known. (Ord. 2019-003,
3-19-2019)
7-4-22: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
   A.   Substantial Breach: The City reserves its right as provided herein to
revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a substantial
breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule or
regulation or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit,
small wireless facility permit; or
      2.   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the City or its citizens; or
      3.   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit, small wireless facility permit application; or
      4.   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a permit
extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to reasons
beyond the permittee's control; or
      5.   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued by the City.
   B.   Written Notice Of Breach: If the Director determines that the permit
holder has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any
statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the right-of-way
permit or small wireless facility permit, the Director may notify the permit
holder of the breach in writing and demand that the permit holder remedy the
violation. The notice and demand shall inform the permit holder that continued
violations may result in revocation of the right- of-way permit or small
wireless facility permit. In the notice and demand, the Director may also
impose additional or revised conditions on the right-of-way permit or small
wireless facility permit to mitigate and remedy the breach.
   C.   Response To Notice Of Breach: Within twenty four (24) hours of
receiving notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the City with a
plan, acceptable to the City that will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to
so contact the City, or permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable
plan, or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
be cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee's failure
to so contact the City, or permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to implement the approved plan, shall automatically place
the permittee on probation for one full year.
   D.   Cause For Probation: From time to time, the City may establish a list
of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly outside of
the permit authorization.
   E.   Automatic Revocation: If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee's permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   F.   Reimbursement Of City Costs: Upon revocation of a right-of-way permit
or small wireless facility permit, the permit holder shall reimburse the City
for its reasonable costs incurred because of the revocation, including but not
limited to restoration costs, collection costs, and attorney fees.
   G.   Exemptions: The following persons are exempt from the requirements of
this section:
      1.   City employees acting within the course and scope of their
employment and contractors acting within the course and scope of a contract
with the City;
      2.   Persons who install mailboxes in the public right-of-way in
accordance with requirements of the U.S. Postal Service;
      3.   Persons who temporarily place residential household refuse
containers in the public right-of-way for the collection of solid waste or
recyclables in accordance with the provisions of this Code. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-
19-2019)
7-4-23: MAPPING DATA:
   A.   Information Required: Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the City in accordance with Minnesota Rules
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within ninety (90) days following completion of any
work pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the Director accurate
maps and drawings certifying the "as built" location of all equipment
installed, owned and maintained by the permittee. Such maps and drawings shall
include the horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment
and shall be provided consistent with the City's electronic mapping system when
practical or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide maps
and drawings pursuant to this subsection shall be grounds for revoking the
permit holder registration.
   B.   Service Laterals: All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals other than minor repairs as defined in Minnesota Rules
7560.0150 subpart 2, shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service use laterals and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the Director reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the Director
evidence satisfactory to the Director of the installed service lateral
locations. Compliance with this subsection and with applicable Gopher State One
Call Law and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after
December 31, 2005, shall be a condition of any City approval necessary for: 1)
payments to contractors working on a public improvement project including those
under Minnesota Statutes chapter 429 and 2) City approval of performance under
development agreements or other subdivision or site plan approval under
Minnesota Statutes chapter 462. The Director shall reasonably determine the
appropriate method of providing such information to the City. Failure to
provide prompt and accurate information on the service lateral installed may
result in the revocation of the permit issued for the work or for future
permits to the offending permittee or its subcontractors. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-
2019)
7-4-24: LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Placement: Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must
comply with the Act, with other applicable law, and with Minnesota Rules
7819.3100, 7819.5000 and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit
authority otherwise available to cities.
If any facility is now underground, any relocation or replacement of said
facility shall remain underground unless there is no feasible location in the
corridor to place such facilities.
Longitudinal installations under streets, sidewalks, and trails are prohibited
unless otherwise approved by the Director.
   B.   Corridors: The City may assign a specific area within the right-of-way,
or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facility that is or, pursuant to current technology, the City expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, or other permits
issued by the City involving the installation, relocation, or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
Facilities being installed, replaced, or relocated within a high density
corridor shall be placed in a common conduit system or share other common
structures.
Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position at variance
with the corridors established by the City, including longitudinal
installations under streets, sidewalks, and trails, shall, no later than at the
time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the facilities
are located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the right-of-
way, unless this requirement is waived by the Director for good cause shown,
upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
facilities, public safety, customer service needs and hardship to the
registrant.
   C.   Limitation Of Space: To protect health, safety, and welfare, or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the City shall have
the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional facilities
within the right-of- way. In making such decisions, the City shall strive to
the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the
right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public
interest, the public's needs for the particular utility service, the condition
of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the
protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and future City plans
for public improvements and development projects which have been determined to
be in the public interest. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-25: PREEXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION:
In addition to complying with the requirements of Minnesota Statutes 216D.01
through 216D.09 ("One Call Excavation Notice System") before the start date of
any right-of-way excavation each registrant who has facilities or equipment in
the area to be excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of
all said facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are less than twenty
inches (20") below a concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely
with the excavation contractor to establish the exact location of its
facilities and the best procedure for excavation. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-26: DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES:
When the City does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to maintain,
support, or move a registrant's facilities to protect it, the City shall notify
the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. If the registrant
does not maintain, support or move the facilities at the City's request and the
City maintains, supports or moves the facilities the costs associated therewith
will be billed to that registrant and must be paid within thirty (30) days from
the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its facilities damage.
Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any damage to
the facilities of another registrant caused during the City's response to an
emergency occasioned by that registrant's facilities. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-
2019)
7-4-27: RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION:
   A.   Reservation Of Right: If the City vacates a right-of-way that contains
the facilities of a registrant, the registrant's rights in the vacated right-
of-way are governed by Minnesota Rules 7819.3200. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-28: INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY:
By registering with the City or by accepting a permit under this chapter a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the City in accordance
with the provisions of Minnesota Rule 7819.1250. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-29: ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES:
   A.   Discontinued Operations: A right-of-way user who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the City must provide
information satisfactory to the City that the registrant obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter, including removal and
disposal of hazardous materials, have been lawfully assumed by another
registrant.
   B.   Removal: A right-of-way user shall notify the City when facilities are
to be abandoned. A right-of-way user who has abandoned facilities in a public
right-of-way shall remove them from the right-of-way if required in conjunction
with other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless the
Director waives this requirement.
   C.   Non-Completion Or Abandonment Of Work: Work shall progress
expeditiously to completion in accordance with any time limitation specified in
the right-of-way permit or small wireless facility permit so as to avoid
unnecessary inconvenience to the public. In the event that the permit holder
fails to timely complete the work in accordance with the terms of the right-of-
way permit or small wireless facility permit or ceases or abandons the work
without due cause, the City may, after six (6) hours' notice in writing to the
permit holder of its intention to do so, correct the work, fill any excavation,
and repair the public right-of-way in a manner that it deems necessary to
protect the safety and welfare of the public. The City shall make or contract
for all temporary and permanent repairs, including but not limited to
backfilling, compacting, and resurfacing, and the permit holder shall reimburse
the City for all costs incurred for such work. If the permit holder fails to
reimburse the City within thirty (30) days of billing, the City may do any or
all of the following: 1) reimburse itself from the proceeds from any cash
deposit, letter of credit, bond, or other security given by the permit holder;
2) deny the permit holder any future right-of- way permits or small wireless
facility permits; and 3) impose a delay penalty. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-30: RIGHT-OF-WAY PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Dumping In Streets: It is a misdemeanor for any person to throw or
deposit in any public right-of-way any solid, recyclable, or yard waste,
including but not limited to nails, dirt, glass, cans, discarded cloth or
clothing, construction debris, metal scraps, garbage, leaves, grass or tree
limbs, paper or paper products, shreds or rubbish, oil, grease, petroleum
products or other automotive fluids or to empty any water containing salt or
other injurious chemical thereon. It is a violation of this section to haul any
such material inadequately enclosed or covered thereby permitting the same to
fall upon the street.
   B.   Fires: It is a misdemeanor for any person to build or maintain a fire
upon a public right-of-way.
   C.   Hazardous Materials: It is a misdemeanor for any person or right-of-way
user to generate, store, dispose or transport to or over the right-of-way, any
hazardous materials. Any and all hazardous materials in the right-of-way as
defined in this chapter must be removed except as otherwise permitted by the
Director.
   D.   Signs: It is a misdemeanor for any person to place or maintain a sign
within any public right-of-way except as otherwise permitted by the Director.
   E.   Placing Snow Or Ice In A Public Right-Of-Way: It is a misdemeanor for
any person not acting under a specific contract with the City or without
written permission from the Director to remove snow or ice from private
property or a private driveway and cause the same to obstruct, encroach upon,
encumber, or interfere wholly or partially with any public right-of-way,
including but not limited to a public roadway, street, sidewalk, walkway, bike
or trail way, easement, park, or other public property.
Where permission is not granted by the Director, the City may remove the snow
or ice from the public right-of-way and the person shall be initially
responsible for payment of all direct and indirect costs of removing the snow
or ice from the street. If not paid within thirty (30) days of invoice,
collection shall be by civil action or assessment against the property as any
other special assessment.
   F.   Separate Offense: Each day that any person continues in violation of
this section shall be a separate offense and punishable as such.
   G.   Stormwater Ponds And Facilities: Stormwater retention requirements as
set forth in titles 10 and 11 of this Code may not be satisfied by using
ponding within the right-of-way or constructing new stormwater ponds or
facilities within the right-of-way.
   H.   Access to Right-of-Way. In all residential zones with single family
dwellings, a dwelling shall have only one access or driveway to access the
Right-of-Way unless approved by the City Engineer except that lots with
multiple street frontages may be allowed two accesses or driveways to access
the Right-of-Way with a conditional use permit pursuant to section
10-5-2 of the City Code. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-011, 8-16-
2022)
7-4-31: APPEAL:
A right-of-way user that: a) has been denied registration; b) has been denied a
permit; c) has had a permit revoked; d) believes that the fees imposed are not
in conformity with Minnesota Statutes section 237.163 subdivision 6; or e)
disputes a determination of the Director regarding the denial, revocation, fee
imposition, or decision reviewed, may appeal to the City Council. The written
request shall be filed with the City within ten (10) days after the notice,
order, or determination for which review is sought has been mailed to or served
upon the person requesting review. Upon receipt of the petition, the City
Administrator shall set a date for the hearing and give the petitioner at least
five (5) days' prior written notice of the date, time, and place of the
hearing. At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to show
cause why the notice, order, or determination should be modified or withdrawn.
The hearing shall be conducted by the City Council or its authorized
representative and it shall make written findings of fact and conclusions based
upon the applicable section of this Code. All decisions by the City Council or
its authorized representative shall be in writing and supported by written
findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-
2019)
7-4-32: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this chapter is for any reason held invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof. Nothing in this chapter precludes the City from
requiring a franchise agreement with the applicant as allowed by law in
addition to requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
7-4-33: LANDOWNER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landowners shall not be required to register to work within the right-
of-way as set forth in this chapter. Work within the right-of-way by landowners
shall be regulated as follows:
      1.   Signs: The regulation of signs within the right-of-way shall be as
set forth in section
10-5-1 of this Code.
      2.   Staking: Landowners may not install stakes within the right- of-way
to obstruct snowplows, car traffic or for any other use. Instead, landowners
may ask the City to install such stakes and the City, in its sole discretion,
may install stakes where it sees fit to protect the turf within the right-of-
way.
      3.   Mailboxes: See City of Baxter's most recent revision of the "Public
Works Policy Manual".
      4.   Lawns And Sprinkler Systems: Landowners may install and maintain
lawn and lawn sprinklers within the right-of-way without permit or City review.
However, the City, in its sole discretion, may have to disturb or damage said
lawn or sprinkler system from time to time to properly maintain the right-of-
way or enable necessary utility use within the right-of-way. Landowners install
such lawns and sprinkler systems at their own risk and shall not have a claim
against the City or any utility, working within its rights under a properly
issued City permit, for the destruction or disturbance of lawns or sprinkler
systems within the right-of- way.
      5.   Trees:
         a.   Trees planted within the right-of-way prior to the adoption of
this chapter may remain, subject to the ongoing right of the City to either
trim or remove said tree if, in the City's sole discretion, the tree is
obstructing sightlines or hindering utilities.
         b.   Trees may be planted after the passage of this chapter, but only
upon application and acceptance of a landscape plan and with a written limited
use agreement with the City.
      6.   Nuisances Within The Right-Of-Way: See section
4-1-4 of this Code.
      7.   Parking: For off street parking regulations, see section
10-5-2 of this Code. For parking within the right-of-way, see title 6, chapter
2 of this Code.
      8.   Access To City Streets: See subsection 10-5-2D of this Code.
      9.   Stormwater Ponds: Stormwater retention requirements as set forth in
titles 10 and 11 of this Code may not be satisfied by using ponding or
constructing new ponding/stormwater facilities within the right-of-way.
      10.   Landscaping, Structures And Fences: No landscaping rocks, fences or
other structures shall be allowed within the right-of- way unless specifically
authorized by the City and with a written limited use agreement with the City.
      11.   Rain Gardens: Rain gardens may not be installed within the right-
of-way. (Ord. 2019-003, 3-19-2019)
      12.   Streetlights: (Rep. by Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
      13.   Nonconforming Structures Or Uses Now In Right-Of-Way: Nonconforming
uses or structures within the right-of-way after the passage of this chapter
shall apply for an after the fact variance or application as set forth in this
section or shall be considered a public nuisance as set forth in subsection C
of this section.
   B.   Written Limited Use Agreement: For City approval of any use or
structure within the right-of-way as listed above, the applicant shall submit
an application to the Utilities Commission for approval. Plan submittals shall
be as set forth for landscape plans in subsection 10-4-8D3 of this Code. Any
applicable fees shall be as set forth in the annual fee schedule.
   C.   Penalty: Any work done or remaining in the right-of-way after the
passage of this chapter and in violation thereof shall be declared a public
nuisance and remedied as set forth in title 4, chapter 1 of this Code. (Ord.
2019-003, 3-19-2019)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATERWORKS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Excavation Permits
8-1-2: Specifications
8-1-3: Tapping
8-1-4: Water Availability Charge (WAC)
8-1-5: Application For Service
8-1-6: Water Rates
8-1-7: Deposit Required
8-1-8: Meter Reading
8-1-9: Water Bills
8-1-10: Use Required
8-1-11: Work Not Performed By City
8-1-12: Usage Restrictions
8-1-13: Penalty
8-1-1: EXCAVATION PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required; Fee: Before any person shall be allowed to open any
ditch on any public street, alley or avenue in the city for the purpose of
placing therein sewer or water mains or pipes, an excavation permit therefor
shall first be obtained from the city for the fee set from time to time by the
city council. (Ord. 2009-1, 2-17-2009)
   B.   Barricades; Warning Lights: Any person so opening any ditch must keep
the same guarded by a fence by day plus warning lights by night together with
additional warning for traffic as required by the city public works director.
   C.   Guarantee: Any work performed by any such party for the city must be
guaranteed for a period of one year after its installation. (Ord. 30, 11-1-
1977)
8-1-2: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Materials: All materials used in the construction of any sewer or water
main or any part thereof, including mains, hydrants or curbing shall be as
prescribed by the city as set forth in any ordinance, manual or resolution and,
in addition, shall conform to all state rules and regulations concerning public
health or welfare.
   B.   Placement: The placing of any of the above mentioned materials shall be
as and in the manner directed by the city pursuant to the provisions of the
aforementioned documents. (Ord. 2009-1, 2-17-2009)
   C.   Inspection: No ditch opened for the purpose of any such construction of
any sewer or water main shall be closed before the same has been inspected by
the person appointed for that purpose by the city and all filling shall be done
as prescribed by such inspector. (Ord. 30, 11-1-1977; amd. 2002 Code)
8-1-3: TAPPING:
   A.   Permit Required: Before any tapping to any water main shall be done, a
permit therefor must first be obtained from the city. (Ord. 2009-1, 2-17-2009)
   B.   Fee: The fee for the permit shall be set from time to time by the city
council. The customer shall be responsible for the cost of the meter and the
meter loop.
   C.   Work Performed By Master Plumber: All such tappings shall be done by a
licensed master plumber hired by the customer at his expense, and no taps shall
be made between the water main and the inside of the water meter, and no ties,
branches, or other taps shall be made between the water main and the inside of
the water meter.
   D.   Turning On Or Off Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person,
except the public works director or his agents, or the fire department in case
of fire, to turn on or off the water of the city owned system at a curb or at
any other place on city property. (Ord. 30.3, 9-4-1979; amd. 2002 Code)
   E.   Ownership Of Meters: All meters shall remain the property of the city.
(Ord. 2009-1, 2-17-2009)
   F.   Connection Of Private Water Source Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to
connect a private water source with the city water system. (Ord. 30.3, 9-4-
1979; amd. 2002 Code)
   G.   Service Line Breaks; Repairs:
      1.   Responsibility Of Property Owner: The property owner is responsible
for water service line breaks and repairs from the consumer side of the water
shutoff valve to the owner's distribution system including fittings on that
side that were installed by the city.
      2.   Responsibility Of City: The city is responsible for the water line
from the point of connection with the city water main to and including the
water shutoff valve. (Ord. 30.8, 4-1-1997)
8-1-4: WATER AVAILABILITY CHARGE (WAC):
   A.   Description Of The WAC Systems:
      1.   The water availability charge (WAC charge) is similar to fees used
by many municipalities. Since 1990 a WAC fee has been levied by the city of
Baxter for new constructions, new connections, commercial users and industrial
users who remodel/alter, change use or add onto their facility and have not
paid a WAC fee in the past. One WAC unit equals two hundred seventy four (274)
gallons of maximum potential daily domestic water usage. Single-family houses,
townhouses, duplex units, apartments and multi-dwelling facilities included in
each unit each equal one WAC unit per dwelling unit. Commercial buildings are
levied WAC units based on maximum potential daily domestic water usage.
Industrial buildings are assessed WAC units based on maximum potential daily
wastewater flowage and maximum normal daily water flow volume for process
areas, maximum potential water flow for commercial areas.
      2.   The city of Baxter is the provider of domestic water service in the
WAC system. The city of Baxter collects WAC fees from property owners.
Generally, the city of Baxter issues a permit (building permits, electrical
permits, plumbing permits and zoning permits) which indicates that development
or redevelopment is occurring. In turn, the development or redevelopment
triggers a WAC determination or redetermination. The city of Baxter makes all
industrial, residential and commercial determinations. General maintenance on
industrial, residential and commercial buildings, not including remodeling and
alterations, are exempt from WAC fees.
      3.   The WAC revenue collected by the city of Baxter is used to finance a
portion of the water system. Capital improvement costs are initially financed
by debt and involve the building and upgrading of the water system. WAC revenue
finances a portion of the water system debt service annually, also called the
annual WAC requirement.
      4.   WAC revenue is held in the WAC reserve fund until utilized for the
annual WAC requirement. The balance in the fund fluctuates from year to year
depending on whether current revenue plus interest earned was more or less than
the annual WAC requirement. The per unit charge for each calendar year is
determined and approved by the city council in conjunction with the budget
process. The rate for subsequent years shall be subject to review and is
dependent on factors including the annual WAC requirement and the forecasted
number of WAC units to be collected. Commercial WAC rates have typically been
slightly higher than residential rates to account for higher peak flow
typically seen from commercial facilities.
   B.   History Of The WAC Program:
      1.   WAC fees have been levied by the city of Baxter since 1990. The city
of Baxter must provide water service to a rapidly growing population,
commercial base, and industrial base. The policy was further updated when this
code was codified in 2002.
      2.   Heavy capital costs are inevitable, as the city of Baxter has and
will continue to expand and improve treatment and the distribution system for
the community as its population, commercial base and industrial base continues
to change and grow.
      3.   The issue facing the city is how to fund the expansion and updates
of its treatment and distribution system. Treatment regulations are becoming
more stringent in recent years and will continue to be more stringent as we
move into the future. Expanding the system and meeting new, more stringent,
drinking water regulations require that the system be designed and built to
meet these requirements for the next twenty (20) years.
      4.   The practice of building in capacity and treatment flexibility is
based upon experience and the economy. The physical sites of distribution
systems and water treatment plants seldom change, so major land acquisition
occurs only once. Further economies of scale of construction make it more cost
effective to provide capacity and treatment alternatives at the time that major
construction occurs rather than make small frequent infrastructure changes.
      5.   There have been court challenges to sewer availability charge (SAC
charge) in other communities. In a district court ruling, later upheld by the
Minnesota supreme court, SAC systems were found consistent with state law.
Based on the above court decision it is common for municipalities to implement
a WAC system in the same format as a SAC system.
   C.   Residential And Commercial:
      1.   Initial Determinations (New Construction Or Initial Connection): The
computation of WAC units for a given property is referred to as a
determination. Determinations are generally triggered by building permits,
electrical permits, plumbing permits or zoning permits. Examples include the
construction of a house, a house connecting to water for the first time or
construction or modification to a commercial building.
         a.   Residential:
            (1)   The following types of residential housing each comprise one
WAC unit per dwelling unit:
               (A)   New single-family houses: A single-dwelling unit.
               (B)   Existing single-family houses: Houses built with a private
well system and subsequently connected to the city system shall be charged at
the rate used prior to 1990 due to the cost of installing the original private
well system and the amount being assessed to the properties for the public
improvements.
               (C)   Duplex units, apartments units, condominiums units and
townhouse units: A multi-dwelling facility included in each unit.
         b.   Commercial WAC:
            (1)   A "commercial user" in the city of Baxter is defined as any
user that is not a residence and that discharges no wastewater from an
industrial process.
            (2)   Individual businesses occupying the same building are subject
to a WAC charge. The WAC charge will be calculated for the entire building and
prorated on a percentage of area occupied by each business.
            (3)   The WAC charge will be determined by calculating the
equivalent residential connection (ERC) in accordance with appendix A.
            (4)   For commercial users who propose to change the use of or
remodel/alter their facility and have not paid a WAC fee prior to 1990 will
have a WAC fee charge based on the original use of the building. Any change in
use within the original building will be charged at the current rate and the
WAC fee must be paid at the time of the building permit. The WAC for commercial
buildings that have a change of use or remodel/alter will be calculated based
on ERCs in accordance with appendix A. The WAC calculation will be based on the
entire building regardless of the area being modified.
      2.   Ongoing Determinations:
         a.   Anytime there is a change in use, a WAC determination must take
place. Sometimes, this is referred to as a redetermination; simply meaning this
is not the first WAC determination to take place on the site. Most
redeterminations are triggered by city issued building permits, electrical
permits, plumbing permits and zoning permits. A redetermination is necessary
when the use of the property has changed or when a physical change in the
facility occurs.
         b.   If it is determined, at the sole discretion of the city, that
there have been prior building permits issued by the city in which the WAC
should have been recalculated, then the city shall charge the applicant at the
rates in place when that prior permit was pulled for any charge that should
have been allocated at that time. If no permit has been issued since 1990 the
fee shall be calculated based on the 1990 rate. This credit shall not apply to
charges due for additional ERCs due for proposed improvements.
      3.   WAC Credits:
         a.   Credit for WAC previously paid on a site is allowed when there is
a new use established on a property. The credit is stated in units and is used
to offset the WAC unit determination of the new use. The purpose of WAC credits
is to avoid double payment of WAC on a specific parcel of land. The WAC credits
stay with the specific parcel and may not be transferred to another parcel.
      4.   Demolitions:
         a.   A demolition is when a structure or building is destroyed. WAC
credit will be allowed at the time the new use is established for WAC fees
previously paid into the system. The WAC credits must be used on the same
parcel in which the demolition took place.
      5.   Rules Governing The Use Of Credits:
         a.   WAC credits can only be used when there is a new use established
on the property. Credits cannot be taken at the time of demolition or at the
time a business discontinues operations. The WAC credits stay with the specific
parcel and may not be transferred to another parcel.
   D.   Industrial WAC:
      1.   Initial Determinations (New Construction Or Initial Connection):
         a.   The computation of WAC units for a given property is referred to
as a determination. Determinations are generally triggered by building permits,
electrical permits, plumbing permits or zoning permits.
         b.   The WAC charge will be determined by calculating the equivalent
residential connection (ERC) in accordance with appendix A.
      2.   Definition Of Industrial User:
         a.   "Industrial user" has a particular, special definition for WAC
purposes. It does not include all industries. "Industrial user" for WAC
purposes is an industry producing water from an industrial process. Many
businesses commonly referred to as industries are not "industries" for WAC
purposes and would be subject to commercial criteria for SAC purposes. Because
the definition of industrial user for the purpose of WAC is somewhat ambiguous,
the city of Baxter will make final decision on whether an "industry" will
follow industrial criteria for WAC purposes.
      3.   WAC Determination For Industrial Users:
         a.   WAC is determined on a different basis for industrial users,
compared to commercial and residential users. For commercial and residential
users, a WAC determination is based on the estimated maximum potential daily
volume of water capable of being for the facility. In contrast, industrial WAC
determinations are derived by adding two (2) components: commercial criteria
for nonprocess areas and the sum of maximum domestic water flow plus the normal
maximum industrial process water flow for process areas.
         b.   For industrial users who propose a change in use, choose to
remodel or expand their facility and have not paid a WAC prior to 1990, the WAC
must be paid at the time of the building permit. If no permit has been issued
since 1990 the fee shall be calculated based on the 1990 rate. The WAC will be
calculated as outlined above.
      4.   Three Year Review:
         a.   Because industrial determinations involve both commercial and
industrial criteria, redeterminations can be triggered by changes in either the
commercial or industry component. Similar to commercial, building permits or
changes in use can trigger redeterminations subject to additional WAC charges.
In addition, industrial users may increase water flow and consumption without
remodeling, simply by expanding the workday or the rate of activity. In these
cases, no building or plumbing permit need be issued; however, a
redetermination is needed.
         b.   Because of the above reasons, the city of Baxter may complete a
redetermination on a three (3) year review of total potential maximum water
flow and consumption from industrial facilities. If it is determined that
additional WAC fees are required, the city of Baxter will contact the
industrial user to meet and review the data. After review of the data, the city
of Baxter will invoice the industrial user for the additional WAC fees.
      5.   WAC Credits:
         a.   Credit for WAC previously paid on a site is allowed when there is
a new use established on a property. The credit is stated in units and is used
to offset the WAC determination of the new use. The purpose of WAC credits is
to avoid double payment of WAC on a specific parcel of land. The WAC credits
stay with the specific parcel and may not be transferred to another parcel.
      6.   Demolitions:
         a.   A demolition is when a structure or building is destroyed. WAC
credit will be allowed at the time the new use is established for WAC fees
previously paid into the system. The WAC credits must be used on the same
parcel in which the demolition took place.
      7.   Rules Governing The Use Of Credits:
         a.   WAC credits can only be used when there is a new use established
on the property. Credits cannot be taken at the time of demolition or at the
time a business discontinues operations. The WAC credits stay with the specific
parcel and may not be transferred to another parcel.
      8.   Special Credit Situations:
         a.   A different type of credit situation is an industrial user that
permanently changes its industrial process to less water. When a change
permanently reduces water usage, the city of Baxter recognizes this as a change
in use and will allow credit to the WAC. The city of Baxter must approve all
such credits to ensure the process change is permanent. (Ord. 2013-12, 10-15-
2013)
   E.   Appendix A:
      1.   Tables set forth in the city of Baxter "appendix A: SAC criteria for
commercial properties" most current edition plus any amendments. (Ord. 2014-11,
5-6-2014)
8-1-5: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Form: Application for a water service installation and for water
service shall be made to the city clerk on forms prescribed by the city and
furnished by the city. By his signature, the applicant shall agree to conform
to this chapter and to rules and regulations that may be established by the
city as conditions for the use of water. (Ord. 2009-1, 2-17-2009)
   B.   Accounts In Name Of Owner: All accounts shall be carried in the name of
the owner who personally, or by his authorized agent, shall apply for such
service. The owner shall be liable for water supplied to his property, whether
he is occupying the property or not, and any charges unpaid shall be a lien
upon the property. (Ord. 30.7, 6-5-1990; amd. 2002 Code)
8-1-6: WATER RATES:
Each water user shall pay to the city such monthly rates as are established by
the city council. The setting of such water rates shall, however, not take
effect for thirty (30) days after posting said rate at city hall and on the
city of Baxter website. (Ord. 2006-7, 2-7-2006)
8-1-7: DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
No tapping shall be made and no water shall be turned on for any person not the
owner of the property where such water is desired until such person shall have
paid to the city the sum set from time to time by the city council as a
guarantee for the payment of the water bill for the time such person shall be
so in possession of any such property, and in the event that such person shall
move away without paying the water bill for such property, the amount then due
shall be deducted from such deposit and the balance, if any, shall be paid to
the person so making such deposit. (Ord. 2009-1, 2-17-2009)
8-1-8: METER READING:
   A.   Generally: The city shall provide for inspection, maintenance,
replacement, testing, and repair at reasonable times of all water meters
connected to the city water supply system. Where replacement, repair, or
adjustment of any meter is rendered necessary by the action or inaction,
neglect, or carelessness of the owner or occupant of any premises, any expense
caused the city thereby shall be added to the monthly utility bill and water
service may be discontinued until the cause is corrected and the amount charged
is collected. All water meters shall be and remain the property of the city and
may be removed, replaced, or changed by the city whenever deemed necessary by
the city. When deemed necessary by the city, the city shall notify the owner of
the building or premises of the need for the removal, replacement, or change
and the process whereby that shall occur. The city may charge a fee to any
owner that fails to respond to the city notice regarding the need for a meter
removal, replacement, or change and that fee shall be added to the monthly
utility bill until the meter request has been completed. The amount of the fee
shall be set annually by the city council.
   B.   Alternate Metering System: The city utilizes radio read meter reading
infrastructure to read its water meters. It is recognized that not all
customers approve of this method of meter reading. Therefore, the owner upon
written request on an application supplied by the city may elect an alternate
metering system and shall be charged a monthly meter reading fee set annually
by the city council. Prior to the sale of a building or premises with an
alternate metering system, the alternate meter system shall be replaced with
radio read meter infrastructure.
   C.   Access: For the purpose of meter inspection, maintenance, replacement,
testing, repair, and reading, the city shall have free access at reasonable
hours of the day to all parts of every building and premises connected to the
city water supply system.
   D.   Testing: When the owner questions the accuracy of the meter reading for
any past service period, the city shall upon written request have such meter
reread. If the owner remains dissatisfied and desires that the meter be tested,
then the owner shall on written request along with posting a testing fee with
the city have the meter tested. If the test shows an error exceeding five
percent (5%) of the water consumed, then the testing fee shall be refunded to
the owner and a new meter shall be installed and the bill shall be adjusted
accordingly. The bill adjustment shall not extend back more than one service
period from the date of the written request. The testing fee shall not be
refunded if the meter is found to be accurate. The testing fee shall be set
annually by the city council. (Ord. 2016-038, 7-5-2016)
8-1-9: WATER BILLS:
   A.   Billings:
      1.   Monthly Bill: Based upon the prior month's water meter reading, the
city shall send to each water user a statement of the amount due for water used
the past month, also including any past due balance, which amount shall be due
and payable to the city on or before the tenth of the following month and if
not then paid, shall be in default. (Ord. 2009-1, 2-17-2009)
      2.   Delinquencies: Billings in default shall be charged a ten percent
(10%) surcharge thereon, plus additional late fees shall be assessed every
monthly billing period thereafter using the same calculation and an additional
fee shall be assessed if the city has to certify the delinquent fee to the
county for collection with real estate taxes. In addition, the city reserves
the right to delegate the collection of delinquent accounts to collection
agencies under contract with the city, bring civil action, or collect by any
other remedy available at law. The city reserves right to deny future utility
services at any other address within the city if the utility bill customer has
a delinquent or outstanding utility bill at any other previous address within
the city. (Ord. 2008-9, 6-3-2008)
      3.   Shutoff For Nonpayment: In the event any water user shall be in
default in the payment of any water bill exceeding sixty (60) days, such water
service shall be turned off until such water bill is paid together with a
shutoff fee and an additional fee to cover the cost of turning the water back
on again. Said fees shall be set from time to time by the city council. The
charges are subject to change in the same manner as water rates under section
8-1-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-1, 2-17-2009)
   B.   Procedure For Shutoff Of Service:
      1.   Notice: Water shall not be shut off under subsection A3 of this
section until notice and an opportunity for a hearing have first been given the
occupant of the premises involved. The notice shall be personally served and
shall state that if payment is not made before a date stated in the notice, but
no less than ten (10) days after the date on which notice is given, the water
supply to the premises will be shut off. The notice shall clearly inform the
customer of the available opportunities to present to the city objections to
the bill and shall identify the telephone number, address, and officer or
employee who has the authority to review the facts and files and to correct any
errors in the billing.
      2.   Demand For Hearing: The notice shall also state that the occupant
may before such date demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the supply
will not be cut off until after the hearing is held. If the customer requests a
hearing before the date specified, a hearing shall be held on the matter by the
public utilities commission at least one week after the date on which the
request is made.
      3.   Findings: If as a result of the hearing, the public utilities
commission finds that the amount claimed to be owing is actually due and
unpaid, and that there is no legal reason why the water supply of the
delinquent customer may not be shut off in accordance with this subsection, the
city may shut off the supply. (Ord. 30.7, 6-5-1990; amd. 2002 Code)
   C.   Collection With Taxes: Nothing in this chapter shall be held or
construed as in any way stopping or interfering with the city's right to levy
as taxes against any premises affected, any delinquent or past due water
charges. Each and every water charge levied by and pursuant to this chapter is
hereby made a lien upon the lot, land, or premises served, and all such charges
which are past due and delinquent, shall be certified to the city clerk, who
shall prepare an assessment roll providing for assessment of the delinquent
amount against the respective property served. The assessment roll shall be
delivered to the city council for adoption after due notice is given by mail to
the affected property owner. Upon such adoption, the clerk shall certify the
assessment roll to the county auditor for collection along with taxes as
authorized under Minnesota statutes section 444.075 after the city council
holds a public hearing regarding the proposed assessment. To appeal this
assessment, the property owner must present a written objection to the
assessment at said public hearing and then file a district court action in Crow
Wing County within thirty (30) days of said public hearing. (Ord. 2008-9, 6-3-
2008)
8-1-10: USE REQUIRED:
   A.   Facilities: When property abuts upon any public street or alley along
which water mains have been constructed, the owner of any dwelling or
commercial establishment on the property shall install water service therein
and connect with the city water main in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter within one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of mailing of
official notice to do so by the city clerk. The notice shall be given to the
owner or occupant or his authorized agent in writing by the city clerk on order
of the city council. Said notice shall be delivered no sooner than one year
after a city water main could serve the subject property and no longer than
three (3) years after a city water main could serve the subject property. For
existing nonusers, they shall have three (3) years from the passage of this
subsection to comply with this absolute deadline. In addition, connection is
required before the owner of said property sells or transfers title to said
property or before repair or replacement of any existing well or septic system
on the property. Said property owners must also inform the city clerk at least
thirty (30) days before replacing any private well on the property. For the
purposes of this chapter, "abut" shall mean that the property is either
contiguous to the city street served by city water or benefits from an easement
that enables service from said city street whereby they could connect to city
utilities without further consent from any other landowner. (Ord. 2010-1, 2-3-
2010)
   B.   New Construction: As to nonabutting property which, in the case of
residential use is within four hundred feet (400') and in the case of business
or commercial use is within six hundred feet (600') of any public street or
alley along which water mains have been constructed, the owner shall, as to any
new construction requiring water service, connect with the city water main in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, before any use or occupancy may
be made of such premises.
   C.   Abandonment Of Existing Well Or Water Source: Any existing business or
commercial use which abandons an existing private well or water source must
substitute it with a connection to the city water supply, as opposed to any
private water supply. (Ord. 30.2, 10-3-1978)
   D.   Failure To Comply; City Action: Whenever any owner or occupant fails to
comply with such written notice, the council shall, by resolution, direct that
a water line connection and meter be installed and connection made with the
water system and the cost of the installation be paid in the first instance out
of the general fund and then assessed against the property benefited. (Ord. 30,
11-1-1977)
   E.   Nonuser Fees: As to each curb stop (place allowed for connection to the
city water line), any property owner who has not connected to the city water
line shall pay a fee set by the city council for each such curb stop. However,
this nonuser fee shall not be due and payable in those instances where the
property owner served by such curb stop has such property homesteaded and owns
also an adjacent homesteaded property which is hooked up to and served by the
city water system. The fact, however, that such user water rate is being
charged by the city or is being waived hereunder in no way waives or diminishes
the right of the city to require any property owner to connect to such water
system in accordance with the terms and provisions above. This nonuser fee
shall be set from time to time by the city council if not hooked up within one
year after the curb stop is operational, and shall be subject to change in the
same manner as with water rates under section
8-1-6 of this chapter. The fact however, that nonuser fees are being charged by
the city shall not operate as a waiver of the required use provisions set forth
in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 30.5, 10-19-1982; amd. 2002 Code)
   F.   Exemption: If any existing single-family residence is more than eight
hundred feet (800') from the nearest available city utility connection lines,
the homeowner may apply for an exemption agreement with the city which would
exempt them from the connection requirements and nonuser fees as set forth
above. Said agreement would be recorded against the property and may require
connection upon subdivision or other changes to the lot. To apply for said
exemption, the homeowner shall be required to present a septic system
compliance certificate and the exemption agreement may require periodic
inspection and compliance of said septic system. And, based upon the proximity
of said septic system to wetlands, wells, lakes, rivers and streams, the
homeowner may need to construct or modify their existing septic system to
utilize better design and materials to prevent contamination of nearby natural
resources. (Ord. 2008-10, 7-1-2008)
8-1-11: WORK NOT PERFORMED BY CITY:
The city will not perform the work necessary in the construction of any ditches
for water or sewer mains from the main line of either thereof on any private
property. (Ord. 30, 11-1-1977)
8-1-12: USAGE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Determination of Restrictions: City Council has the authority to
establish water usage restrictions, by resolution, when it has determined that
the City's water system is threatened. Restrictions implemented shall be
reflective of the level of the threat to the water system.
   B.   Effective Date / Public Notice: The effective date of usage
restrictions shall be the date indicated in the adopted resolution adopting
such restrictions. Public notification of restrictions shall be made through
issuance of a public service announcement and/or posting of such on the City's
website and in City Hall specifically outlining the said restrictions.
   C.   Violation: Any customer who uses water in violation of the resolution
shall be charged as provided in Section
1-4-3 of this Code for each day of violation. (Ord. 2021-009, 7-6-2021)
8-1-13: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 30, 11-1-1977; amd. Ord. 2021-009, 7-6-
2021)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: General Background Information
8-2-2: General Provisions
8-2-3: Definitions
8-2-4: Use Of Public Sewers
8-2-5: Prohibitions And Limitation
8-2-6: Limitation On Wastewater Strength
8-2-7: Accidental Discharges
8-2-8: Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit
8-2-9: Pretreatment Requirements
8-2-10:    Industrial Wastewater Monitoring And Reporting
8-2-11:    Regulation Of Fats, Oils And Greases (FOG)
8-2-12:    Special Programs And Requirements
8-2-13:    Confidential Information
8-2-14:    Enforcement
8-2-15:    Civil Damages, False Information, Tampering And Penalties
8-2-16:    Determination And Levying Of User Charges
8-2-17:    Sewer Availability Charge (SAC)
8-2-1: GENERAL BACKGROUND INFORMATION:
   A.   Sanitary and industrial wastewater generated in the City of Baxter is
collected and conveyed to the Brainerd Public Utilities Commission Wastewater
Treatment Plant for treatment and disposal. Sludge generated as a byproduct of
the treatment of wastewater from Baxter is also managed and disposed by the
Brainerd Public Utilities Commission.
   B.   Conveyance facilities, including sanitary sewers and lift stations
within the Baxter City limits are owned, operated by and under the control of
the City of Baxter.
   C.   A Sewer Use and Capacity Agreement between the City of Brainerd and the
City of Baxter originally executed on November 27, 2007, as amended, defines
the contractual interaction between the Parties, including the methods used to
proportion the capital and operating costs. (Ord. 2024-006, - -2024)
8-2-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is:
      1.   To provide forth uniform requirements for discharges into the city's
wastewater collection system and enable the city to comply with all state and
federal laws, and with the discharge requirements established by the Brainerd
Public Utilities for wastewater discharged to their facility.
      2.   Establish the process the City of Baxter will use to determine and
levy charges to all users within the Baxter service area discharging thereto.
   B.   Objectives: The objectives of this chapter are:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
collection and system which could interfere with the operation of the
collection and conveyance system, or with the treatment of wastewater generated
within the Baxter service area or use or disposal of the sludge generated
through the treatment of that wastewater;
      2.   To establish the authority to determine and levy user charges that
are necessary for the efficient, economic, and safe operation of the city's
wastewater collection system, and for City's portion of the operational and
capital costs of the Wastewater Treatment Plant and for the associated sludge
disposal costs;
      3.   To establish a system of regulation and charges which will provide
effective operation of the city's wastewater collection and conveyance system
in compliance with applicable standards and regulations of the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency and the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 2024-006, - -2024)
8-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words, terms and abbreviations
have the meanings given them:
ACT:           The clean water act (33 USC 1251 et seq., as amended).
ADMINISTRATIVE The City of Baxter, Baxter Public Works Director, Baxter building official, or
AUTHORITY:     staff member authorized by the Baxter city council.
BAXTER PUBLIC  Any reference to the Baxter Utility commission pursuant to procedure is will be a
UTILITIES      recommendation by the utilities commission to the city council for formal action.
COMMISSION:
BIOCHEMICAL    The quantity of oxygen used in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter in a
OXYGEN DEMAND  specified time, at a specified temperature, and under specified conditions. This
(BOD):         is a measure of the amount of degradable organic material in the wastewater.
BRAINERD       Any reference to Brainerd Public Utilities Commission shall mean official action
PUBLIC         of the City of Brainerd. The Brainerd Public Utilities Commission is designated
UTILITIES      as the Treatment Authority.
COMMISSION:
BUILDING       The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of
SEWER:         disposal, sometimes called the house connection or service connection.
CATEGORICAL
INDUSTRIAL     Industrial user that is subject to national categorical pretreatment standards.
USER:
CATEGORICAL
PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS or   Pretreatment standards from the federal regulations that are incorporated by
NATIONAL       reference in Minn. Rules part 7040.0310.
CATEGORICAL
PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS:
CITY:          The term City shall designate the City of Baxter Minnesota, unless specifically
               indicated otherwise.
CHLORIDE:      A chemical contaminate typically originating from regenerating ion exchange water
               softeners.
COD:           Chemical oxygen demand. This is wastewater strength parameter sometimes used with
               industrial wastes.
CAPITAL COSTS: All costs and expenses incurred in planning, designing, financing, and
               constructing wastewater collection, conveyance, and treatment works.
CHEMICAL       A measure of the oxygen equivalent of that portion of organic matter that is
OXYGEN DEMAND  susceptible to oxidation by a strong chemical oxidant, using EPA approved
(COD):         laboratory procedures.
CITY:          City of Baxter, Minnesota.
COMBINED       A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a storm sewer, or as an
SEWER:         industrial sewer and a storm sewer.
               All users of the system classified as industrial users in the standard industrial
               classification manual, 1972, U.S. office of management and budget, as amended and
COMMERCIAL     supplemented under divisions A, B, D, E, and I, but who are excluded from such
USER:          definition for the purposes of this chapter because they discharge primarily
               segregated domestic wastes, or wastes from sanitary conveniences; the
               classification shall not include such exempt users who are otherwise classified
               in this chapter as domestic users, government users, or industrial users.
               Any one or more of the following: preliminary planning to determine the
               feasibility of treatment works, engineering, architectural, legal, fiscal, or
CONSTRUCTION:  economic investigations or studies, surveys, designs, plans, working drawings,
               specifications, procedures, or other necessary actions, erection, building,
               acquisition, alteration, remodeling, improvement, or extension of treatment
               works, or the inspection or supervision of any of the foregoing items.
CONTRACT USER: Any users who have a special contract or agreement with the city which allows
               discharge of wastes into the city's sewer system.
DEBT           The combined principal and interest payments necessary to pay bonded
RETIREMENT     indebtedness.
COSTS:
               Those establishments of which its related occupants, if any, are usually
DOMESTIC USER: considered a domestic service and whose discharge consists solely of sanitary
               wastes.
DOMESTIC       Wastewater derived principally from a dwelling due to domestic activities. It may
WASTEWATER:    or may not contain ground water, surface water, or storm water.
               Any substance, such as vegetable, animal, or other product that is used in, or is
               a byproduct of, the cooking or food preparation process and that turns or may
FATS, OILS AND turn viscous or solidifies with a change in temperature or other condition or
GREASE (FOG):  organic polar compounds derived from animal or plant sources that contain
               multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These substances are detectable and
               measurable using analytical test procedures established in 40 CFR 136, as may be
               amended from time to time.
FLOW:          The quantity of sewage expressed in gallons or cubic feet per twenty-four (24)
               hours.
               Solid wastes resulting from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking, and
GARBAGE:       dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage or sale of meat, fish, fowl,
               fruit, vegetables, or condemned food.
               The liquid waste resulting from the processes employed in industrial,
INDUSTRIAL     manufacturing, trade or business establishments, as distinct from domestic
WASTEWATER:    wastewater. Any waste that is transported by a liquid waste hauler and disposed
               into public sewers is industrial wastewater. Any leachate or contaminated ground
               water disposed into public sewers is industrial wastewater.
               The water entering a sewer system, including sewer service connections, from the
INFILTRATION:  ground, through such means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints,
               connections, or manhole walls. Infiltration does not include, and is
               distinguished from, inflow.
INFILTRATION/  The total quantity of water from both infiltration and inflow without
INFLOW:        distinguishing the source.
               The water discharged into a sewer system, including service connections from such
               sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar, yard, and area drains,
INFLOW:        foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from springs and swampy
               areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm sewers and interceptors,
               catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters, or drainage:
               inflow does not include, and is distinguished from infiltrations.
INSTITUTIONAL  Those establishments engaged in activities of a noneconomic nature, frequently
USER:          being the performance of services for the general public (health, education,
               social), and not classified as a governmental or commercial user in this chapter.
INTERFERENCE:  The inhibition or disruption of the collection system or the wastewater treatment
               plant.
LIMITED FOOD   A location, business or facility, engaged only in reheating, hot holding, or
SERVICE        reassembly of ready to eat food products that does not discharge waste from food
ESTABLISHMENT  preparation or cleanup qualifies as an LFSE facility. An LFSE facility cannot
(LFSE)         include any operation or process that changes the form, flavor, or consistency of
FACILITY:      food.
LEACHATE:      Wastewater resulting from the percolation of rain water and/or internal liquids
               through the deposited material in a solid waste disposal facility.
LIQUID WASTE   Any person who transports waste for the purpose of discharge into public sewers.
HAULER:
LOAD:          Quantities of sewer characteristics such as BOD, SS, and other constituents as
               expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l) or pounds per hours (lbs./24 hours).
LOCAL CHARGE:  A treatment charge assessed by the city to liquid waste haulers based on waste
               volume and strength.
MAY:           Is permissive.
MONITORING:    The measurement, sometimes continuous, of water quality.
NATIONAL
POLLUTION      The system for issuing, conditioning, and denying permits for the discharge of
DISCHARGE      pollutants from point sources into the navigable waters, the contiguous zone, and
ELIMINATION    the oceans by the administrator of the environmental protection agency pursuant
SYSTEM PERMIT  to section 402 and 405 of the federal water pollution control act amendment 1972.
OR NPDES
PERMIT:
NATURAL        Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
OUTLET:        ground water.
NONCONTACT     Water used for cooling purposes that does not contact raw materials, work pieces
COOLING WATER: or a finished products. Noncontact cooling water discharged to public sewers is
               industrial waste.
OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE    The expenses related to the costs of the operation, maintenance, replacement, and
COSTS (O & M   administration of the City of Baxter total treatment works or system.
COSTS):
               A discharge of sewered pollutants that flows from the city's treatment plant into
               the receiving stream in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in
PASS THROUGH:  conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a
               violation of any requirement of the plant's NPDES/SDS permit, including an
               increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
PERSON:        Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, municipal
               corporation, government unit, or group.
               A discharge that exits a POTW plant into waters of the state in quantities or
               concentrations that, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources,
PASS THROUGH:  is a cause of violating a requirement of any permit, rule, regulation or
               ordinance controlling, prohibiting, or limiting the release of pollutants from
               the POTW plant into the environment, including an increase in the magnitude or
               duration of a violation.
               The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration. The
pH:            concentration is the weight of hydrogen-ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
               Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of seven (7) and a hydrogen-ion
               concentration of 10-7.
               The application of physical, chemical and biological processes to reduce the
PRETREATMENT:  pollutants in or alter the nature of the pollutant properties in a wastewater
               prior to discharging such wastewater into the publicly owned collection and
               conveyance system and ultimately the wastewater treatment plant.
PRETREATMENT   Any materials that are formed, concentrated, or removed by pretreatment performed
SOLIDS:        by any person.
PROCESS WATER: Any water used in the manufacturing, preparation or production of goods,
               materials, or food. Process water is an industrial waste.
PUBLIC SEWER:  Any sewer owned or operated by a unit or agency of government.
PUBLIC WORKS   The Public Works Director of the wastewater disposal system of the city or the
DIRECTOR:      person's duly authorized representative.
               Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories, or
REPLACEMENT:   appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment plant
               to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were designed and
               constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes replacement.
SANITARY       A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and industrial wastewater
SEWER:         from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions.
SANITARY       The liquid and water carried wastes discharged from sanitary plumbing facilities.
WASTES:
SANITARY       The liquid and water carried wastes discharged from sanitary plumbing facilities.
WASTEWATER:
               Each, and all, of the common lateral sewers within a publicly owned treatment
               system, which are primarily installed to receive wastewaters directly from
               facilities which convey wastewater from individual structures or from private
SEWAGE         property, and which include service connection "Y" fittings designed for
COLLECTION     connection with those facilities. The facilities which convey wastewater from
SYSTEM:        individual structures, from private property to the public lateral sewer, or its
               equivalent, are specifically excluded from the definition, with the exception of
               pumping units, and pressurized lines, for individual structures or groups of
               structures when such units are cost effective and are owned and maintained by the
               City of Baxter.
               The water carried waste products from residences, public buildings, institutions,
SEWAGE OR      industrial establishments, or other buildings including the excrementitious or
WASTEWATER:    other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals, together with such
               ground water infiltration and storm and surface water as may be present.
SEWER:         A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage, industrial wastewater, or other waste
               liquids.
SEWER:         A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage, industrial waste, or other waste liquids.
SEWER SYSTEM   Pipe lines or conduits, pumping stations, force mains, and all other devices and
OR SEWERAGE    appliances appurtenant thereto, used for collecting or conducting sewage,
SYSTEM:        industrial wastewater, or other wastewater to a point of ultimate disposal.
SHALL:         Is mandatory.
SIGNIFICANT
INDUSTRIAL     Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment system whose flow:
USER:
              a.   Exceeds twenty-five thousand (25,000) gallons or more per average workday;
              b.   Has exceeded five percent (5%) of the flow carried by the city's wastewater
               treatment system during any day in the past year;
               c.   Has in its wastewater a toxic pollutant, in toxic amounts, as defined by
              standards issued and effective under section 307 (a) of the federal water
               pollution control act or as defined by Minnesota statutes and rules;
               d.   Has BOD5 or TSS concentrations that are higher than typical domestic sewage.
              The concentration of BOD5 and TSS in typical domestic sewage is assumed to be 300
               mg/l and 300 mg/l, respectively;
               e.   Has significant impact, or reasonable potential to impact either
               individually or in combination with other contributing industries, on the city's
              wastewater treatment system of the quality of its effluent; Has significant
               impact or reasonable potential to impact on the quality of sludge produced by the
               wastewater disposal system,
              f.   Has significant or reasonable potential to violate required pretreatment
               standards.
              g.   Has a significant impact on air emission of the wastewater treatment plant.
              h.   An industrial user that is subject to national categorical pretreatment
               standards.
SIGNIFICANT    A industrial user is in significant noncompliance if its violation meets one or
NONCOMPLIANCE: more of the following criteria:
               a.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits defined in this part as
              those in which 66 percent or more of all the measurements taken during a six-
               month period exceed, by any magnitude, a numeric pretreatment standard or
               requirement;
               b.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined in this part as those in
               which 33 percent or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter
              taken during a six-month period or exceed the product of a numeric pretreatment
               standard or requirement multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC=1.4 for BOD, TSS,
               fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
               c.   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement that he POTW
              determines has caused alone or in combination with other discharges,
               interferences or pass-through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel
               or the general public;
               d.   Any discharge of a pollutant that had caused imminent endangerment to human
              health, welfare, or the environment or has resulted in the receiving POTW
               authority's exercise of its authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
               e.   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the scheduled date, a compliance
              schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or enforcement order
               for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final
               compliance;
               f.   Failure to provide, within 45 days after the due date, required reports such
              as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, periodic self-
               monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
              g.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
               h.   Any other violation, which may include a violation of best management
              practices, that the POTW authority determines will adversely affect the operation
               or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
               Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste which in concentration of
SLUG:          any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
               longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty-four
               (24) hour concentration, qualities, or flows during the normal operation.
               A discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature, including, but not limited to, an
SLUG           accidental spill or noncustomary batch discharge, which has a potential to cause
DISCHARGE:     interference or pass-through or in any other way violate the POTW's regulations,
               local limits. Or individual control mechanisms.
STORM SEWER:   A sewer which carries storm and surface water and drainage but excludes sewage
               and industrial wastewater, other than unpolluted cooling or process water.
TOTAL          The residue material from a wastewater sample after filtration, using EPA
SUSPENDED      approved laboratory procedures.
SOLIDS (TSS):
               Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of
               municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid industrial wastewater, or necessary
               to recycle or reuse water at the most economical cost over the useful life of the
               works. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, , extensions,
TREATMENT AND  improvements, remodeling, additions, and alteration hereof; elements essential to
DISPOSAL       provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units and clear well
SYSTEM:        facilities; and any works, including site acquisition of the land that will be an
               integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of
               residues resulting from such treatment,; or any other method or system for
               preventing, abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of
               municipal wastewater or industrial wastewater.
USEFUL LIFE:   Estimated period during which a collection, conveyance system or treatment works
               will be operated.
USER:          Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity, whether municipal or otherwise,
               discharging sewage into the collection and conveyance system.
               A charge levied on users of a conveyance system or treatment works, for the
USER CHARGE:   user's proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance (including
               replacement) of such works. (Ord. 2024-006, - -2024)
 
8-2-4: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   The public sewers of the city are governed by the provisions of this
section.
      1.   Discharge: It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within
the city limits any sewage or other pollutant waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter. It is also unlawful to discharge wastewater generated within the city
limits to a natural outlet that is outside the city limits without suitable
treatment.
      2.   Private Systems: It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain, use,
or permit to be used any cesspool, privy, or privy vault on any part of any lot
or parcel of land in the city abutting a public sanitary sewer with which a
sewer connection may be made, if said parcel of land is within five hundred
feet (500') of said public sanitary sewer.
      3.   Water Service Terminated: Whenever any privy, privy vault, or
cesspool is either erected, constructed or used, contrary to the provisions of
this chapter on any premises in the city, the water supply from the city
waterworks thereto shall be terminated and shall remain cut off until the City
of Baxter is satisfied that such violation of this chapter has ceased and until
the expense of turning off and turning on the water has been paid with whatever
fine for violation of this chapter may be assessed.
   B.   Use Required:
      1.   Existing Facilities: When property abuts upon any public street or
alley along which a public sanitary sewer has been constructed, the owner of
any dwelling or commercial establishment on the property shall install sanitary
sewer service therein and connect with the city sanitary sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter within one hundred twenty (120)
days after the date of mailing of official notice to do so by the city clerk.
The notice shall be given to the owner or occupant or his authorized agent in
writing by the city clerk on order of the city council. Said notice shall be
delivered no sooner than one year after a city sanitary sewer main could serve
the subject property. In addition, connection is required before the owner of
said property sells or transfers title to said property or before repair or
replacement of any or septic system on the property. For the purposes of this
chapter, "abut" shall mean that the property is either contiguous to the city
street served by city sanitary sewer or benefits from an easement that enables
service from said city street whereby they could connect to city utilities
without further consent from any other landowner.
      2.   New Construction: As to nonabutting property which, in the case of
residential use is within four hundred feet (400') and in the case of business
or commercial use is within six hundred feet (600') of any public street or
alley along which a public sewer system has been constructed, the owner shall,
as to any new construction requiring sewer service, connect with the city sewer
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, before any use or
occupancy may be made of such premises.
      3.   Abandonment of Existing System: Any existing business or commercial
use which abandons an existing private sewer system must substitute it with a
connection to the city sewer system, as opposed to any private sewer system
      4.   Failure to Comply; City Action: Whenever any owner or occupant fails
to comply with such written notice, the council shall, by resolution, direct
that connection be made with the sewer system and the cost of the installation
be paid in the first instance out of the general fund and then assessed against
the property benefited.
      5.   Nonuser Fees: Any property owner who has not connected to the city
sewer system shall pay a fee set by the city council. The fact, however, that
such user sewer rate is being charged by the city or is being waived hereunder
in no way waives or diminishes the right of the city to require any property
owner to connect to such sewer system in accordance with the terms and
provisions above. This nonuser fee shall be set from time to time by the city
council if the property is not hooked up within one year after the adjacent
city sewer system is operational and shall be subject to change in the same
manner as with sewer rates under section
8-2-16  of this chapter. The fact, however, that nonuser fees are being charged
by the city shall not operate as a waiver of the required use provisions set
forth in this section. In addition, no property owner may elect to pay nonuser
fees unless they have their current septic system inspected pursuant to title
9, chapter 8 of this code and said system passes the inspection.
      6.   Exemption: If any existing single-family residence is more than
eight hundred feet (800') from the nearest available city utility connection
lines, the homeowner may apply for an exemption agreement with the city which
would exempt them from the connection requirements and nonuser fees as set
forth above. Said agreement would be recorded against the property and may
require connection upon subdivision or other changes to the lot. To apply for
said exemption, the homeowner shall be required to present a septic system
compliance certificate and the exemption agreement may require periodic
inspection and compliance of said septic system. And, based upon the proximity
of said septic system to wetlands, wells, lakes, rivers and streams, the
homeowner may need to construct or modify their existing septic system to
utilize better design and materials to prevent contamination of nearby natural
resources.
      7.   Pretreatment: Where pretreatment facilities are required by the City
of Baxter, they shall be maintained continuously in effective operation by the
sewer user at its expense. Failure to do so shall void the right of sewerage
system use and the City of Baxter reserves the right to discontinue service.
   C.   Control Manholes: The City of Baxter may as a condition of providing
sewer service require a control manhole built on the building sewer at owner's
expense to facilitate observation, sampling, inspection and measurement of
wastewater. The Control Manhole and enclosure shall be equipped with a locking
access hatch or door. If flow measurement is necessary to establish flowrates,
the building sewer Owner may be required to install an approved flow
measurement and recording device. Such manhole when required shall be
accessible, safely located, and built-in accordance with city standards for
sewer manholes. The necessity of a control manhole will be based on sewage
volume and wastewater strength and permitted characteristics and whether the
wastewater discharge requires control within the operation to meet acceptable
conditions for discharge to the sewage system. Sampling and flow monitoring
equipment may be located within the Owner's building if duly authorized Baxter
employees or agents have total access to the sampling and monitoring equipment
at any time during normal business hours.
   D.   Special Agreements: Nothing within this sewer chapter shall be
interpreted to require the service of wastewater at published sewer rates when
such wastewater may impair the system or cause a higher-than-normal expense in
operation of the sewerage system. Nor shall the sewer section be interpreted to
prohibit the handling of deleterious wastewater, requirements for pretreatment,
or sewer service rates higher than published rates on an agreement basis. Such
agreements may be approved by the City of Baxter after considering the problems
in handling, the effect on the sewerage system and the cost of handling the
wastewater. Special agreements are not allowed which would: 1) cause the
violation of the existing NPDES permit or state disposal system permit; and 2)
allow any user subject to national categorical pretreatment standards to
circumvent their requirements.
   E.   Entry On Premises: Duly authorized City of Baxter employees or
designees bearing proper identification shall, at reasonable times, be
permitted to enter upon properties served by sanitary sewers for the purpose of
inspection, measurement, sampling and testing in connection with operation of
the sewer system. No person shall interfere with, delay, resist or refuse
entrance to the administrative authority's attempt to inspect any facility
involved directly or indirectly with a discharge to the city's sanitary sewer
system.
   F.   Contractors' Responsibility: Contractors employed on city contracts,
plumbers, and other persons engaged in construction or maintenance activity
where there is connection to or danger of damage to the sewer system shall
exercise particular care to protect the sewer system and shall always protect,
keep foreign materials out, and accomplish construction or connections in a
neat and workmanlike manner. Failure to do so shall be a violation of this
chapter and shall not stop the city from correcting the damage or removing the
foreign material, if necessary, on an overtime basis, and collecting the costs
therefor. For other than immediate necessary repair or removal a five (5) day
written notice shall be deemed adequate notice to the party to repair damage,
correct faulty construction or remove material from the sewerage system.
   G.   Storm Water Connections: Roof, ground water or surface drain
connections to the city's sanitary sewer system is prohibited.
   H.   Entrance Into Manholes: Entrance into sewer manholes or opening the
same for any purpose whatever except by duly authorized city or City of Baxter
employees or their agents is prohibited.
   I.   Building sewer construction: Building sewers shall be constructed in
compliance with the most recent edition of the Minnesota Plumbing Code. Sewers
shall run in a practical alignment at a uniform slope of no less than ¼" per
foot toward the point of connection to the city's collection system. A separate
building sewer shall be provided for each account and be located within the
property boundaries of that account. Any exception to the above shall be
approved by the administrative Authority prior to installation. (Ord. 2024-006,
- -2024)
8-2-5: PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATION:
   A.   No user shall discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, any of the substances described in this section into the wastewater
collection system or to any public sewer:
   Explosive Gases: Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their
nature or quantity are, or may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction
with other substances, to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other
way to the wastewater collection and conveyance system or to the wastewater
treatment plant, or to the operation of those systems. Prohibited materials
include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene,
xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides.
      1.    Grease, Garbage, Etc.: Solid or viscous substances which will or
may cause obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the
operation of the wastewater collection and conveyance facilities, or the
treatment plant, such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with particles
greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastic, gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing
of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grindings or polishing wastes. Acidic
or Basic Fluids: Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater collection and
conveyance system or treatment and disposal system.
      2.   Toxic Pollutants: Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants to
inhibit or disrupt any wastewater treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, or create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the
wastewater disposal system. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited
to, any pollutant identified pursuant to section 307(a) of the act.
      3.   Noxious Fluids: Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids
which either singly or by interaction with other wastewater is capable of
creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry
into the sewer for their maintenance and repair.
      4.   Dyes, etc.: Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in
the treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions.
      5.    Other Violations: Any wastewater which creates conditions at or
near the wastewater disposal system which violate any statute or any rule,
regulation or section of any public agency or state or federal regulatory body.
      6.   Heated Wastewater: Any wastewater having a temperature greater than
one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65.6°C.), or causing,
individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at the
wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding one hundred four
degrees Fahrenheit (104°F) (40°C) or having heat in amounts which will inhibit
biological activity in the treatment works resulting in interference.
      7.   Unpolluted Water: Any unpolluted water, including, but not limited
to, noncontact cooling water, unpolluted storm or ground water.
      8.   Excess Grease And Oil: Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease,
or oils of animal or vegetable origin whether emulsified or not, in excess of
plus one hundred y milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty two degrees
Fahrenheit and one hundred fifty degrees (32°F and 150°F) (0°C and 65.6°C); and
any wastewater containing oil and grease concentration of mineral origin of
greater than plus one hundred milligrams per liter (+100 mg/l), whether
emulsified or not.
      9.   Inert Suspended Solids: Wastewater containing inert suspended solids
(such as, but not limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues)
or of dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate) in such quantities that they would cause disruption with the
wastewater system.
      10.   Other Prohibited Substances: No user shall discharge to any public
sewer any discharge which causes "interference", as defined, with the
wastewater conveyance or the wastewater treatment plant. Pollutants in the
effluent from an industrial user shall not be considered to cause interference
where the industrial user is in compliance with specific prohibitions or
standards developed by federal, state, or local governments. Where the
industrial user is in compliance with such specific prohibitions or standards
and pollutants in the effluent from the industrial user's facility nevertheless
are determined to have caused or significantly contributed to a violation of
any requirement of the city's NPDES or state disposal system permit, and are
likely to cause such a violation in the future, the City of Baxter must take
appropriate action to develop and enforce specific effluent limits for that
industrial user.
      11.   Strong Acid or Plating Solutions: Any wastewater containing strong
acid, iron pickling wastewater, or concentrated plating solutions, whether
neutralized or not.
      12.   Phenols: Any wastewater containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances which constitute a nuisance or hazard to the structures,
equipment, or personnel of the conveyance system, or which interfere with the
wastewater treatment plant.
      13.   Radioactive Wastes: Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such
half-life or concentration that they are in noncompliance with regulations
issued by the appropriate authority having control over their use or which have
caused or may cause damage or hazards to the wastewater treatment plant or
personnel operating it.
      14.   Water Insoluble Oils: Any water insoluble oils, including, but not
limited to, fuel oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, lubricating oil, hydraulic
oil, mineral oil and motor oil.
      15.   Medical Wastes: Whole, ground or shredded glassware, needles and
other sharps, plastic and textile objects from hospitals, physician and dentist
offices, clinics, veterinary facilities, other healthcare facilities,
mortuaries, blood banks, laboratories of any kind and food preparation
facilities.
      16.   Infectious Wastes: Wastes, other than domestic wastewater, that are
infectious except as provided for in an acceptable infectious waste management
plan submitted to Minnesota department of health or Minnesota pollution control
agency pursuant to Minnesota statutes 116.75-116.83
      17.   Foam Producing: Any material containing foam or foam producing
substances in sufficient quantities to cause a public nuisance, operational
problems in public sewers or cause interference or pass-through.
      18.   Pretreatment Solids: Any pretreatment solids from an industrial
pretreatment system except as provided in section
8-2-7  of this chapter.
      19.   Outside Of City Wastewater: Any wastewater generated outside the
city limits unless prior approval has been obtained from the Public Works
Director
      20.   Hazardous Wastes: Any hazardous wastes, as defined by Minnesota
statutes section 116.06 subdivision 11 and Minnesota rules chapter 7045, unless
prior approval has been obtained from the public work director and such
discharge does not constitute a violation of local, state or federal law.
      21.   Pharmaceuticals: Outdated or unused medicines, drugs or
pharmaceutical shall not be disposed by discarding into the sewer.
      22.   Sump pump discharges: Discharges from sump pumps, footing drains or
other sources of uncontaminated groundwater shall not be connected to the
sanitary sewer. (Ord. 2024-006, - -2024)
8-2-6: LIMITATION ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH:
   A.   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards: National categorical
pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S. environmental protection agency
(EPA) pursuant to the act shall be met by all users which are subject to such
standards in any instance where they are more stringent than the limitations in
this chapter.
   B.   State Requirements: State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall be met by all users who are subject to such standards in any instance in
which they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this or any other applicable section of this code.
   C.   City's Right of Revision: The city reserves the right to establish by
ordinance more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the
wastewater disposal system if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives
stated in section
8-2-2  of this chapter.
   D.   Dilution: No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any
way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained herein,
contained in the national categorical pretreatment standards, or contained in
any state requirements.
   E.   Supplemental Limitations: The City of Baxter may impose additional
specific limitations on any wastewater that is to be discharged into the city's
wastewater disposal system.
   F.   Specific Local Discharge Limitations: No person, except as authorized
pursuant to a compliance schedule in a permit, shall discharge or cause or
allow to be discharged into public sewers any wastewater that exceeds the
concentration limitations and mass loading limitations established by the
Treatment Authority.
8-2-7: ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES:
   A.   Protection Required: Each user shall provide protection from accidental
discharge or prohibition materials, or other substances regulated by this
chapter. Where necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharge of
prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user's
own cost and expense.
   B.   Notice Of Accidental Discharge: Users shall notify the Baxter Public
Works Director immediately upon having a slug or accidental discharge of
substances or wastewater in violation of this chapter in order to enable
counter measures to be taken to minimize damage to the wastewater collection
and conveyance, the wastewater treatment and disposal system or the receiving
water. Such notification will not relieve users of liability for any expense,
loss or damage to the wastewater disposal system or treatment process, or for
any fines imposed on the City of Baxter on account thereof under any state or
federal law. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or
discover such a discharge are advised of the emergency notification procedure.
8-2-8: INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT:
   A.   Mandatory Permits: All industries proposing to connect or to commence a
new discharge to the wastewater disposal system shall obtain a wastewater
discharge permit before connecting to or discharging into the wastewater
disposal system.
   B.   Issuance of an industrial discharge permit shall not relieve the
industrial user from any obligation to obtain any hazardous waste license
required by other authorities or to comply with any other local, state, or
federal requirements regarding wastewater disposal.
   C.   Permit Application; Fee:
      1.   Form; Fee: Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
shall complete and file with the Public Works Director, an application in the
form prescribed by the public works director and accompanied by the applicable
fee set by the City of Baxter.
      2.   Time of Filing: Proposed new users shall apply at least one hundred
eighty (180) days prior to connecting or discharging to the wastewater disposal
system.
      3.   Required Information: In support of the application, the user shall
submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
         a.   Name, address, location (if different from the address);
         b.   SIC number according to the standard industrial classification
manual, bureau of the budget, 1972, as amended;
         c.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by a
reliable analytical laboratory. Sampling and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to section 304(g) of
the act and contained in 40 CFR, part 136, as amended.
         d.   Time and duration of discharge;
         e.   Average daily and thirty (30) minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
         f.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size,
location and elevation;
         g.   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged, including
sludges, floats, skimming's, etc.;
         h.   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by the city, state or national categorical
pretreatment standards, and (for an existing discharge) a statement regarding
whether or not the pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis,
and if not, whether additional operation and maintenance and additional
pretreatment is required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment
standards. If additional operation and maintenance and pretreatment will be
required, a proposed schedule by which the changes will be completed shall be
submitted. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. The
schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of dates for the
commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standard. No increment shall exceed nine (9) months in
length, and progress reports concerning each increment shall be submitted
within fourteen (14) days following each increment date;
         i.   Each product produced by type, amount, and rate of production;
         j.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         k.   Number of full and part time employees, and hours of work; and
         l.   Any other information as may be deemed by the Public Works
Director to be necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   D.   Issuance Of Industrial Discharge Permit: Within ninety (90) calendar
days, after receipt of a completed permit application from an industrial user,
the Public Works Director shall, upon a determination that the applicant is
capable of compliance with permit conditions and these rules, issue an
industrial discharge permit subject to applicable terms and conditions. The
permit may include limitations or special conditions, including requiring
pretreatment, to reduce the pollutant concentrations or constituents.
Industrial discharge permit duration shall be established by the Public Works
Director. Permits shall be issued in one of the following forms:
      1.   A standard permit will be issued to an industrial user with a direct
discharge connection to a public sewer;
      2.   A liquid waste hauler permit will be issued to an industrial user
who transports and discharges industrial wastewater to public sewers; and
      3.   A special discharge permit will be issued to an industrial user who
discharges leachate, ground water or other waste to public sewers, for which a
standard form is not applicable.
   E.   Permit Conditions: Wastewater discharge permits shall be subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the City of Baxter. Permits may contain the following:
      1.   Payment of annual permit fees to cover any costs associated with
sampling, monitoring, or special treatment requirements;
      2.   Payment of strength charge as required by the City of Baxter's
strength charge system, section
8-2-14  of this chapter. Strength charges will be as identified in the Baxter
Fee Ordinance;
      3.   Payment of load charges as required for liquid waste haulers,
section
8-2-12  of this chapter;
      4.   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      5.   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      6.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      7.   Requirements for installation, operation and maintenance of
pretreatment facilities;
      8.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency and method sampling, number, types and standards for tests
and reporting schedule;
      9.   Compliance schedules;
      10.   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      11.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the Public Works Director, but in no
case less than three (3) years, and affording Public Works Director access
thereto;
      12.   Requirements for notification to and acceptance by the Public Works
Director any new introduction of wastewater constituents or of any substantial
change in the volume or character of the wastewater constituents being
introduced into the wastewater collection system;
      3.   Requirements for notification of slug or accidental discharges as
provided in section
8-2-7  of this chapter, and reporting of permit violations;
      14.   Requirements for disposal of sludges, floats, skimmers, and similar
materials; and
      15.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Public Works Director
to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   F.   Permit Duration: Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five (5) years. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a
minimum of one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the expiration of the user's
existing permit. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to
modification by the Public Works Director during the term of the permit as
limitations or requirements as identified in sections
8-2-5  and
8-2-6  of this chapter are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall
be informed of any proposed changes in his permit at least thirty (30) days
prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the
permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   G.   Permit Modifications: Within nine (9) months of the promulgation of a
national categorical pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of
users subject to such standard shall be revised to require compliance with such
standard within the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user,
subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously
applied for a wastewater discharge permit as required by subsection B of this
section, the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within one
hundred eighty (180) days after the promulgation of the applicable national
categorical pretreatment standard. In addition, the user with an existing
wastewater discharge permit shall submit to the Public Works Director within
one hundred eighty (180) days after the promulgation of an applicable national
categorical pretreatment standard the information required by subsection B3h of
this section. If the information previously submitted in an application is
still current and adequate, only a letter from the user certifying such is
required.
   H.   Permit Transfer: Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific
user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be
reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises,
or a new or changed operation without the approval of the Public Works
Director. Any succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and
conditions of the existing permit. (Ord. 2024-006, - -2024)
8-2-9: PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Pretreatment Requirements.
      1.   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this Section and shall achieve compliance with all national
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user's expense.
      2.   Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the Public Utilities director for review, and
shall be acceptable to the Public Utilities Director before construction of the
facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures will be in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent acceptable to the Public Utilities Director under the
provisions of this Section. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment
facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the
Public Utilities Director prior to the user's initiation of the changes.
      3.   Records. All records relating to compliance with the pretreatment
standards shall be made available by the Public Utilities director to Officials
of the EPA or MPCA on request.
      4.   User Reports. Any user subject to a national categorical
pretreatment standard, after the compliance date of such pretreatment standard,
or, in the case of commencement of a new discharge to the wastewater disposal
system, shall submit to the Public Utilities Director during the months of June
and December, unless required more frequently in the pretreatment standard or
by the Public Utilities Director, a report indicating the nature and
concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such
pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of all
daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded the average daily flow
reported in Section
8-2-10 . The Public Utilities Director may agree to alter the months during
which the above reports are to be submitted.
   B.   Trap And Separator Installations:
      1.   Required: Oil, grease, sand, and flammable waste traps shall be
installed for the proper discharge of wastewater containing excessive amounts
of oil, grease, sand, or flammable liquids when required by the Minnesota
plumbing code, Minnesota rules chapter 4715, or where the Public Works Director
determines such traps are necessary.
      2.   Maintenance: Separators and traps shall be maintained in efficient
operating condition by periodic removal of any accumulated pretreatment solids.
         a.   Floating Materials: Floating materials shall be removed when the
accumulation is within two inches (2") of the outlet.
         b.   Settled Solids: Settled solids shall be removed when the solids
reach seventy five percent (75%) of the trap or separator capacity.
         c.   Inspection And Maintenance: Oil, sand and flammable waste traps
shall be maintained and inspected by the owner at least annually.
   C.   Sludge Generated: Sludges, floats, skimmings, and similar material,
generated by an industrial or commercial pretreatment system shall not be
placed into the city's wastewater disposal system. Such sludges shall be
contained, transported, and disposed of in accordance with all federal, state,
and local regulations. (Ord. 2024-006, - -2024)
8-2-10: INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER MONITORING AND REPORTING:
   A.   General Requirements: All Permittees and nonpermitted industrial users
specified by the Public Works Director shall monitor industrial waste
discharges into public sewers. Such monitoring shall accurately characterize
the discharge and shall be performed in accordance with all applicable
provisions of these rules and any permit issued thereunder. Such monitoring
information shall be submitted to the Public Works Director in a self-
monitoring report. At a minimum, a summary report shall be prepared quarterly.
   B.   Monitoring Point:
      1.   Required: Each permittee shall have an approved monitoring point
provided at the permittee's expense. Liquid waste haulers and specific
industrial users may be exempted by permit from portions of this chapter.
      2.   Criteria for Approval: An approved monitoring point shall meet the
following criteria:
         a.   The wastewater flow is visible and accessible for inspection and
monitoring purposes;
         b.   Adequate safeguards are in place to protect City of Baxter
personnel from accident or injury;
         c.   The wastewater flow has appropriate velocity and is well mixed to
yield representative samples;
         d.   The wastewater flow at the monitoring point conveys all the
permittee's industrial waste;
         e.   The monitoring point is large enough or space is provided nearby
to allow for monitoring equipment placement; and
         f.   The total wastewater flow of the permitted facility, if exceeding
twenty-five thousand (25,000) gallons per day, can be measured using an open
channel or other acceptable measuring device.
      3.   Deadline for Installation: All permittees shall have an approved
monitoring point within twelve (12) months of the effective date of this
chapter.
      4.   Design Plans: Design plans for constructing a monitoring point shall
be submitted to the superintendent for approval sixty (60) calendar days prior
to any construction necessary to meet the criteria specified in this chapter.
All new installations shall be in accordance with provisions of the Minnesota
plumbing code.
      5.   Maintenance: Each permittee is responsible for all maintenance on
the approved monitoring point, including routine cleaning.
   C.   Representative Sampling: Representative samples shall be collected by
permittees at an approved monitoring point. Sampling shall be conducted on a
normal operating day and in accordance with standard monitoring techniques
described herein. The samples shall accurately characterize the discharge,
taking into account batch discharges, daily production variations, downtime,
cleanup and other operating conditions. Each permittee shall accurately
determine wastewater flow volumes during periods of sample collection. Flow
proportional compositing may be required. Samples shall be collected in a well-
mixed region of the wastewater. To avoid collecting nonrepresentative amounts
of sediment or floating material, the intake of the sampling device shall be
placed appropriately. When using an automatic sampler, the intake line velocity
shall be sufficient to ensure representative sampling of suspended solids. The
minimum intake velocity should be two feet (2') per second, the minimum
automatic sampler intake line inside diameter shall be one-fourth inch (1/4").
When feasible, the automatic sampler intake shall be downstream of the primary
flow device.
   D.   Grab And Composite Samples: Samples shall be collected as specified in
the permit or as determined by the Public Works Director. Grab and/or composite
samples may be required. A series of at least four (4) grab samples is required
when analyzing wastewater for pH, grease and oil, cyanide, volatile organics,
total phenols, and sulfides. For other parameters, grab samples may be required
when the wastewater flow is not continuous or when necessary to determine the
instantaneous wastewater characteristics. Grab samples can be taken manually or
automatically. Composite samples are formed by combing discrete samples
collected either manually or by an automatic sampler. Each discrete sample
shall have a minimum volume of at least one hundred milliliters (100 ml).
Discrete samples can be composited using any of the following methods: 1) equal
time intervals and equal volume samples; 2) equal time intervals and unequal
volume samples; or 3) unequal time intervals and equal volume samples. Flow
proportional composite sampling is the designated method for sample collection
for industrial permit holders. Equal time/equal volume composition may only be
utilized if the hourly wastewater flow volumes are nearly constant during the
sampling period.
   E.   Sample Handling Procedures: All samples shall be contained, preserved
and held in accordance with code of federal regulations, part 136. The sample
temperature shall be maintained at four degrees Celsius (4°C), if necessary,
from the time of collection until sample analysis is performed. When
applicable, additional preservation shall be performed upon sample collection.
   F.   Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants: All measurements, tests,
and analysis of the characteristics of the industrial wastewater shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of "standard methods for the
examination of water and wastewater", published by the American public health
association. The permittee or the contracted monitoring service and/or
commercial analytical laboratory shall document analytical procedures,
including, but not limited to, quality control and, if applicable, chain of
custody procedures conducted on each sample. The Public Works Director may
require that any sample analysis data submitted to fulfill requirements of
these rules, or any permit issued thereunder be obtained from a laboratory
appropriately certified by the Minnesota department of health.
   G.   Wastewater Flow Measuring: Wastewater volumes discharged by permittees
to public sewers shall be accurately determined during sampling periods using
metered water supply or wastewater flow measuring devices or both. Metered
water supply may be used to determine reporting period discharge volumes if the
Public Works Director determines that operating day losses can be accounted
for. Operating day losses include, but are not limited to, lawn sprinkling,
loss to product, or evaporation. Water meters used for wastewater discharge
volume determinations shall be maintained in good operating condition. The
Public Works Director may require outside calibration of such meters. If the
Public Works Director determines that operating day losses cannot be accounted
for, or that the hourly water meter volumes do not correlate with the
monitoring point hourly volumes, continuous flow measuring of industrial
wastewater discharges to public sewers shall be required. All continuous flow
measuring installations shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Primary Flow Device: Primary flow devices including, but not limited
to, weirs and flumes, shall be installed such that proper hydraulic conditions
exist.
      2.   Factors used to determine the type, size, and location of a primary
flow device include:
         a.   Flow rate and velocity;
         b.   Pipe configuration and slope;
         c.   Turbulence;
         d.   Presence of nearby tributary flows;
         e.   Solids concentration; and
         f.   Other factors.
      3.   The primary flow device shall accommodate the maximum expected flow.
The primary flow device shall be properly leveled and sealed.
      4.   Flow Level Sensing Device: The flow level sensing device shall be
installed at a proper distance upstream of the primary flow device and in a
location where excessive turbulence is not created.
      5.   Continuous Recording Device: All continuous flow measuring
installations shall include a continuous recording device.
      6.   Maintenance: All continuous flow measuring installations shall be
maintained in good operating condition. Records of all maintenance conducted on
flow measuring installations shall be kept. Maintenance includes, but is not
limited to, the removal of sediment from upstream and downstream of the primary
device, and the calibration of the flow meter.
   H.   Inspections; Access: The Public Works Director or his designee shall
inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the purpose of this
chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied with.
      1.   Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the Public Works Director ready access at all reasonable
times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
records examination or in the performance of any of their duties.
      2.   The Public Works Director, MPCA and EPA shall have the right to set
up on the user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring and metering operations. Where a user has
security measures in force which would require proper identification and
clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with any security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, the Public Works Director, MPCA and EPA will be permitted to
enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities.
   I.   Confidential Information: Information received from a user shall be
treated as public unless requested by the user in accordance with section
8-2-13  of this chapter, and in any event in accordance with applicable law.
   J.   Self-Monitoring Reports:
      1.   Required: Permittees shall submit complete and accurate self-
monitoring reports to the Public Works Director at a frequency stated in the
permit.
      2.   Required Information: Permittees shall use report forms provided by
the Public Works Director. Self-monitoring reports may require the permittee to
disclose the following information for each reporting period:
         a.   General facility data;
         b.   Operational data;
         c.   Source and volume of all water supplies;
         d.   Volumes of water used or lost;
         e.   Use and volume of wastewater discharged to public sewers;
         f.   Analytical results from wastewater monitoring;
         g.   Description of sampling and analytical methods; and
         h.   Other information as is relevant to determining compliance with
these rules.
      3.   Frequency of Reports: The frequency of routine reporting shall be
based on the reporting schedule included in the individual permit. The minimum
reporting frequency shall be quarterly. Industrial wastewater discharges
subject to a strength charge or a cumulative annual metal limit shall report
monthly. Liquid waste haulers shall report monthly. Refer to section
8-2-10  of this chapter for additional sampling and reporting requirements.
      4.   Modification of Reporting Schedule: The Public Works Director may
modify the above reporting schedule for any permittee based on the permittee's
industrial wastewater characteristics or any other relevant consideration.
      5.   Compliance with Regulations: Permittees subject to categorical
pretreatment standards shall submit self-monitoring reports and other required
reports to the City of Baxter in accordance with the general pretreatment
regulations established under the act and any requirement of a categorical
pretreatment standard.
      6.   Due Dates: Permittees shall submit complete self-monitoring reports
to the Public Works Director such that the Public Works Director has received
such reports on or before the thirtieth calendar day of the month following the
end of each applicable reporting period. (Ord. 2024-006, - -2024)
8-2-11: REGULATION OF FATS, OILS AND GREASES (FOG):
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   FOG Discharge Requirement: No FSE or LFSE facility shall discharge
or cause to be discharged into the sanitary sewer system FOG that exceeds an
average concentration level of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
that may accumulate and cause or contribute to blockages in the sanitary sewer
system. The following discharge prohibitions shall apply to all FSE or LFSE
facilities:
         a.   No person shall discharge or allow to be discharged any
wastewater from an FSE facility directly to a sanitary sewer system without
causing such discharge to pass through a FOG interceptor.
         b.   The discharge of any waste materials removed from a FOG control
device into the sanitary sewer system is prohibited.
         c.   The discharge of any waste or FOG into the sanitary sewer system
which fails to comply with the FOG discharge manual is prohibited.
      2.   FOG Interceptor and FOG Trap Requirements:
         a.   FSE facilities are required to install, operate, and maintain an
approved FOG interceptor adequately sized for the facility. Proposed new
construction projects will be required to submit the FOG control device system
design with the building permit application. Existing FSE facilities that do
not have a FOG interceptor or that have a noncompliant or inadequate FOG
control device shall install an approved system within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the effective date hereof.
         b.   LFSE facilities are not required to install a FOG interceptor,
but all such facilities are required to install, operate, and maintain an
approved FOG trap within one hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date
hereof. All new LFSE facilities shall install an approved FOG trap, the design
of which shall be submitted to the city with its building permit application.
         c.   FOG interceptors shall receive wastewater only from food service-
related plumbing fixtures such as sinks and kitchen drains. Domestic wastewater
from toilets, lavatories and bathroom drains shall not flow through FOG
interceptors.
      3.   Multiple FSE Facilities at Commercial Properties: For properties at
which multiple FSE facilities are operated on a single parcel or as part of a
planned unit development (PUD) or a common interest community (CIC), each FSE
facility operator shall be individually and separately responsible for
installation and maintenance of the FOG interceptor serving its FSE facility
and for compliance with this section. Furthermore, owners of commercial
properties at which multiple FSE facilities are operated on a single parcel or
as part of a PUD or CIC shall be responsible for ensuring compliance of each
FSE facility on such property or properties. Such operators or property owners
can comply with this section by installing and maintaining a FOG interceptor
for each FSE facility or upon prior approval of the city a FOG interceptor
serving multiple FSE facilities.
      4.   Best Management Practices: Each FSE facility shall comply with best
management practices outlined in the most current city of Baxter FOG discharge
manual. Detailed requirements for best management practices are specified in
the FOG discharge manual and may include kitchen practices and employee
training that is essential in minimizing FOG discharges.
      5.   FOG Design, Installation and Performance Test Requirements:
         a.   All FOG interceptors and FOG traps shall be designed only as
specified in the city of Baxter FOG design manual unless the FSE facility
obtains prior written approval from the administrative authority of an equally
effective alternative design. Furthermore, all FOG interceptors and FOG traps
shall be installed to meet the minimum required specifications provided in
Minnesota rules 4715, as amended from time to time. Notwithstanding the
provisions of Minnesota rules 4715, the administrative authority may require
FOG traps and FOG interceptors to be of sufficient size and capacity to meet
unique or special situations.
         b.   All FOG interceptors must be located outside of the building,
buried, or covered adequately to prevent freezing and with access ports to
allow for inspection and cleaning. Access manholes shall extend at least to
finished grade and be designed and maintained to prevent water inflow or
infiltration. The access manholes shall include a readily removable cover to
facilitate inspection, FOG removal and wastewater sampling, but shall be of
sufficient weight and size to prevent unauthorized entry. FOG interceptors
shall be located to be readily accessible for cleaning by a licensed commercial
cleaner. If the FOG interceptor is installed substantially below grade, safe
access shall always be provided throughout the year.
         c.   After installation all FOG interceptors must pass a manometer
test with one-inch (1") of water column for five (5) minutes or a vacuum test
with two inches (2") of mercury for sixty (60) minutes.
      6.   Variance and Waiver of FOG Interceptor Requirement: FSE facilities
are required to install, operate and maintain an approved type and adequately
sized FOG interceptor necessary to maintain compliance with the objectives of
this section. Written variances from this requirement may be granted by the
administrative authority under the following circumstances:
         a.   The alternative pretreatment technology that is at least as
effective in controlling FOG discharge as a FOG interceptor or FOG trap, or
         b.   The FSE facility demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
administrative authority that the FOG discharge is negligible and will have an
insignificant impact on the sanitary sewer system, or
         c.   The installation of the FOG interceptor is not feasible, in which
case the administrative authority may allow the installation of an interior FOG
trap or traps. (Note: Feasibility shall not be based solely on financial
considerations.)
      7.   Food Grinders Prohibited: No food grinder shall be installed in any
FSE or LFSE facility. All food grinders shall be removed from an existing FSE
or LFSE facility upon a major remodel of an FSE or LFSE facility or within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date hereof whichever occurs first.
      8.   FOG Interceptor and FOG Trap Maintenance: FOG interceptors and FOG
traps shall be maintained in proper operating condition by the owner, operator,
or permittee and at its expense. All FOG interceptors and FOG traps shall be
inspected, pumped and cleaned regularly of accumulated waste content so as to
maintain a minimum design capability or effective volume in the FOG interceptor
or FOG trap, but not less than every ninety (90) days. In individual cases, the
ninety (90) day interval may be extended upon prior written approval of the
administrative authority if evidence (inspection reports) is provided to the
administrative authority indicating that the FOG interceptor has not reached
twenty- five percent (25%) of its capacity within any ninety (90) day interval
during twelve (12) consecutive months of operation. If a FOG interceptor is
found to be at or above twenty-five percent (25%) capacity during any ninety
(90) day interval, the inspection and maintenance interval shall be reduced to
forty-five (45) days.
      9.   Recordkeeping: The FSE or LFSE facility owner or operator shall
maintain a written record of FOG interceptor or FOG trap maintenance and submit
the same to the city within five (5) days after pumping. This submittal shall
be in addition to reporting by the FOG collector as required in title 3 of this
code. Records shall include manifests, receipts and invoices of all cleaning,
maintenance, amount of FOG removal, disposal carrier and disposal site
location. All such records will be available for inspection by the
administrative authority upon request.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to make any false statement, representation,
record, report, plan or other document that is filed with the city or to tamper
with or knowingly render inoperable any FOG control device.
   C.   Violations: The owner, operator or permittee of an FSE or LFSE facility
shall be in violation of this section if such owner, operator or permittee:
      1.   Fails to install an approved FOG control device as required by this
section, or
      2.   Makes any false statement, representation, record, plan or other
document that is filed with the city or administrative authority, or
      3.   Tampers with or knowingly renders inoperable any FOG control device
required under this section, or
      4.   Fails to clean, properly operate, maintain or remove FOG from a FOG
control device within the required time for such cleaning, maintenance or FOG
removal interval, or
         a.   Fails to keep up to date and accurate records of all cleaning,
maintenance and FOG removal and upon request to make those records available to
any city or administrative authority representative, or
         b.   Refuses the administrative authority reasonable access to the FSE
or LFSE facility for the purposes of inspecting, monitoring, or reviewing the
FOG control device or manifests, receipts and invoices for cleaning and
maintenance, or
         c.   Disposes of, or allows or directs FOG to be disposed of in an
unlawful manner, or
         d.   Fails to remove all food grinders located in the FSE or LFSE
facility by the date specified in this section, or
         e.   Introduces additives including drain cleaners into a wastewater
system for the purposes of emulsifying FOG without the written, specific
authorization from the city, or
         f.   Fails to comply with the current FOG best practices manual, or
         g.   Otherwise fails to comply with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2024-006, - -2024)
8-2-12: SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Hauled liquid waste.
      1.   Baxter does not accept waste from septic tanks or other facilities
that concentrate or thicken wastewater, or sludge from pretreatment facilities.
      2.   Sanitary sewage waste from holding tanks may be accepted on a case-
by-case basis upon prior approval from the Director of Public Works.
         a.   Application: Any person seeking to transport and subsequently
discharge industrial waste into the public sewers of the City of Baxter shall
file a written application to discharge with the Public Works Director. This
application shall include information about the nature and source of the
wastewater as defined in this chapter. The application shall be made on a form
established by the Public Works Director and shall be accompanied by a required
application processing fee.
         b.   Sample Requirements: Each application to discharge shall include
a detailed analysis of the typical wastewater characteristics including
priority pollutants, COD, TSS, TKN and pH. A form establishing the required
sample analysis shall be obtained from the Public Works Director. An estimate
of discharge volume and frequency shall also be included.
         c.   Approval or Denial: Upon receipt of a complete application for
discharge, the Public Works Director shall evaluate the application and issue
an approval or denial. The Public Works Director shall:
         d.   Within thirty (30) days, issue a written approval for discharges
that will not exceed six (6) months in duration; or
         i.   Within ninety (90) days, issue an industrial discharge permit for
discharges that will exceed six (6) months in duration; or
         e.   Deny the request for discharging into the City of Baxter public
sewers and state the reasons for denial.
         f.   The burden of proof for reasons of denial shall not rest on the
Public Works Director, and the Public Works Director reserves the right to be
arbitrary in what would be the best interest of the City of Baxter.
      3.   Conditions of Discharge: Any person who has obtained a written
approval or permit shall discharge in accordance with the terms of that
approval or permit, any other applicable provisions of these rules, applicable
pretreatment standards under the act, and any other requirements set for by the
Public Works Director. The conditions of discharge will include designation of
where discharge can occur, when discharge can occur and the rate of discharge.
      4.   Monitoring and Reporting: Requirements for ongoing monitoring and
reporting of the discharge characteristics shall be designated in the written
approval or permit. In addition to these requirements, representative samples
shall be collected from every load and turned over to the City of Baxter. A
minimum of one sample per month will be randomly selected for analysis. It is
the responsibility of the liquid waste hauler to arrange for and pay for the
required sample analysis. Monthly self-monitoring reports shall be submitted
indicating the sample analysis and the volume discharged.
      5.   Right of Recession: The Public Works Director may issue an order to
deny discharge at any time after discharge has commenced if it is determined
that the discharge is causing disruption to the City of Baxter's conveyance
facilities or to the treatment plant. Such an order shall in effect cancel any
previous approval or permit issued to the discharger.
      6.   Fees:
         a.   Load Charges: In addition to applicable application and annual
permit fees, liquid waste haulers shall pay load charges to the City of Baxter.
The method of determining load charges shall be established by the Public Works
Director and shall be based on volume, strength and appropriate administration
costs for record keeping and monitoring of the discharger.
         b.   Payment; Delinquencies: Persons subject to a load charge shall
pay the full amount within thirty (30) days after the billing date. Delinquency
in regard to payment of load charges shall be grounds for denial of discharge.
         c.   Established Annually: Application processing fees, load charge
rates and strength charges shall be established annually by the City of Baxter.
   B.   Leachate And Contaminated Ground Water Discharge Requirements:
      1.   Application: Any person seeking to discharge leachate or
contaminated ground water waste into the public sewers of the City of Baxter
shall file a written application to discharge with the Public Works Director.
This application shall include information about the nature and source of the
wastewater as defined in this chapter. The application shall be made on a form
established by the Public Works Director and shall be accompanied by a required
application processing fee.
      2.   Leachate and contaminated groundwater will be considered a
significant industrial discharge and will also require an industrial
pretreatment permit.
      3.   Sample Requirements: Each application to discharge shall include a
detailed analysis of the typical wastewater characteristics including priority
pollutants, COD, TSS, TKN, pH, and any other potential contaminates deemed
necessary by the administrative authority including but not limited to emerging
contaminates such as PFAS compounds. A form establishing the required sample
analysis shall be obtained from the Public Works Director. An estimate of
discharge volume and frequency shall also be included.
      4.   Approval or Denial: Upon receipt of a complete application for
discharge, the Public Works Director shall evaluate the application and issue
an approval or denial. The Public Works Director shall:
         a.   Within thirty (30) days issue a written approval for discharges
that will not exceed six (6) months in duration; or
         b.   Within ninety (90) days, issue an industrial discharge permit for
discharges that will exceed six (6) months in duration; or
         c.   Deny the request for discharging into the City of Baxter public
sewers and state the reasons for denial.
      5.   The burden of proof for reasons of denial shall not rest on the
Public Works Director and the Public Works Director reserves the right to be
arbitrary in what would be the best interest of the City of Baxter.
      6.   Conditions of Discharge: Any person who has obtained a written
approval or permit shall discharge in accordance with the terms of that
approval or permit, any other applicable provisions of these rules, applicable
pretreatment standards under the act, and any other requirements set forth by
the Public Works Director. The conditions of discharge will include designation
of where discharge can occur, when discharge can occur and the rate of
discharge.
      7.   Monitoring and Reporting: Requirements for ongoing monitoring and
reporting of the discharge characteristics shall be designated in the written
approval or permit. In addition to these requirements, representative samples
shall be collected from every load and turned over to the City of Baxter. A
minimum of one sample per month will be randomly selected for analysis. It is
the responsibility of the liquid waste hauler to arrange for and pay for the
required sample analysis. Monthly self-monitoring reports shall be submitted
indicating the sample analysis and the volume discharged.
      8.   Right of Recession: The Public Works Director may issue an order to
deny discharge at any time after discharge has commenced if it is determined
that the discharge is causing disruption to the treatment plant operations.
Such an order shall in effect cancel any previous approval or permit issued to
the discharger.
      9.   Fees:
         a.   Load Charges: In addition to applicable application and annual
permit fees, liquid waste haulers shall pay load charges to the City of Baxter.
The method of determining load charges shall be established by the Public Works
Director and shall be based on volume, strength and appropriate administration
costs for record keeping and monitoring of the discharger.
         b.   Payment and Delinquencies: Persons subject to a load charge shall
pay the full amount within thirty (30) days after the billing date. Delinquency
regarding payment of load charges shall be grounds for denial of discharge.
         c.   Established Annually: Application processing fees and load charge
rates and strength charges will be established annually by the City of Baxter.
(Ord. 2024-006, - -2024)
8-2-13: vCONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
   A.   Data Available to Public: Information and data on a user obtained from
applications, permits, monitoring programs and inspections shall be available
to the public or other government agencies without restriction unless the user
specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Public Works Director that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user.
   B.   Procedure: When requested by the person furnishing a report, and until
such time as the information is determined not to be confidential, the portions
of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be
made available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
NPDES permit, state disposal system permit and the pretreatment programs;
provided, however, that such portions of a report shall be available for use by
the state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics will not be recognized as confidential information. Information
accepted by the Public Works Director as confidential, shall not be transmitted
to any governmental agency or to the general public by the Public Works
Director until and unless a ten (10) day notification is given to the user.
      1.   State Law: Data referred to in this section shall be stored and
released by the city only in accordance with the provisions of state law
regarding data privacy. (Ord. 2024-006, - -2024)
8-2-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Slug Or Accidental Discharges: The Administrative Authority may suspend
the wastewater treatment service of a user or a wastewater discharge permit or
either of them (after informal notice to the discharger), when such suspension
is necessary in the opinion of the Administrative Authority, in order to stop
an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to the
environment, or to the wastewater treatment plant.
      1.   Compliance: Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater
treatment service, or the wastewater disposal permit shall immediately stop the
discharge. In the event of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the Administrative Authority shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the wastewater disposal system or endangerment to any
individuals.
      2.   The Administrative Authority shall reinstate the wastewater
discharge permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the
elimination of the noncomplying discharge. A detailed written statement
submitted by the user describing the causes of the slug or accidental discharge
and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to
the Administrative Authority within fifteen (15) days of the date of
occurrence.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: The Administrative authority may revoke the
permit or suspend wastewater service to any user who fails to factually report
the wastewater constituents and characteristics of his discharge; who fails to
report significant changes in wastewater constituents or characteristics; who
refuses reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of inspection
or monitoring; or who is in violation of conditions of its permit, this
chapter, or applicable state and federal regulations.
   C.   The administrative authority may also serve an administrative citation
pursuant to this code. These fines may be in lieu of or in addition to any
notice of revocation. Each day the permit holder is in violation shall be a
separate offense and require an additional fine. The citation shall clearly
state what days of which violation are being cited.
   D.   Notification Of Violation: Whenever the Administrative Authority finds
that any person has violated or is violating this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit, or any prohibition, limitation or requirement contained
herein, the Administrative Authority serve upon such a person a written notice
stating the nature of the violation. Within thirty (30) days of the date of the
notice, unless a shorter time is necessary due to the nature of the violation,
a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the City
of Baxter by the user.
   E.   Show Cause Hearing; Notice of Hearing: If the violation is not
corrected by timely compliance, the Administrative Authority may order any user
who causes or allows an unauthorized discharge to show cause before the City of
Baxter why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall
be served on the user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by
City of Baxter regarding the violation, the reason why the action is to be
taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the user to show cause
before the City of Baxter why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least twenty (10) days before the
hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
   F.   Hearing Procedures: The hearing shall be held by the Baxter Utilities
Commission. At the hearing, the permit holder shall be permitted counsel and
shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine witnesses. The Baxter
Utilities Commission shall::
      1.   Issue in the name of the City of Baxter notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the protection of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
      2.   Take the evidence; and
      3.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including hearing
minutes and other evidence, together with recommendations to the City of Baxter
for action thereon.
   G.   Right To Appeal: Any permit holder aggrieved by the revocation of a
permit shall have the right to appeal the city's decision to the city council.
Such appeal shall be requested by submitting a written request to the mayor
within five (5) days of the action of the city which is appealed.
   H.   Council Consideration: The city council shall consider the appeal at
its next regularly scheduled meeting; at which time the permit holder shall be
entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing. The council shall act on
the appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold the
action of the city or shall direct the reissuance of a permit which the city
had revoked.
   I.   Transcripts: At any hearing held pursuant to this section, testimony
taken must be under oath and recorded. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges therefor.
   J.   Annual Publication: A list of the users significantly violating
applicable pretreatment requirements or national categorical pretreatment
standards during the twelve (12) previous months shall be annually published by
the city in a local newspaper. The notification shall also summarize any
enforcement actions taken against the user during the same twelve (12) months.
For the purposes of this provision, significant violations are those violations
which remain uncorrected forty-five (45) days after notification of
noncompliance, which are part of a pattern of noncompliance over a twelve (12)
month period, or which involve a failure to accurately report noncompliance.
   K.   Requests For Interpretation of Ruling: Any interested party shall have
the right to request in writing an interpretation or ruling on any matter
covered by this section and shall be entitled to a written reply from the city.
   L.   Legal Action: If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or
other wastes into the City's sewer system contrary to the provisions of this
Section 8, the City may commence an action seeking appropriate legal or
equitable relief. (Ord. 2024-006, - -2024)
8-2-15: CIVIL DAMAGES, FALSE INFORMATION, TAMPERING AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Civil Damages: Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter
or who has a discharge which causes a deposit, obstruction, damage or other
impairment to the collection and conveyance system shall be liable to the city
for any expense, loss, or damage caused by the violation or discharge. The
Public Works Director may add to the user's charges and fees the cost assessed
for any cleaning, repair, or replacement work caused by the violation or
discharge. Refusal to pay the assessed costs is a violation of this chapter.
The City of Baxter shall also have authority to seek injunctive relief for
noncompliance with the required pretreatment standards and requirements by
industrial users.
   B.   Falsifying And Tampering: No person shall knowingly make a false
statement, representation or certification in any application, record, report,
plan, or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter or tamper or render inaccurate any monitoring device required under
this chapter.
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines: The City of Baxter may also establish fines for any person
violating the provisions of this chapter. The City of Baxter shall annually
review and establish the amount of the fines. Fines shall be considered
punitive to encourage compliance and will not be based on actual damages. The
city may access civil or criminal penalties of at least $1,000 day for each
violation by industrial users or required pretreatment standards and
requirements. Fines shall be assessed for a violation upon the recommendation
of the Public Works Director and confirmation by the City of Baxter. (Ord.
2024-006, - -2024)
8-2-16: DETERMINATION AND LEVYING OF USER CHARGES:
   A.   Charge Levied: For the purpose of providing funds to meet the costs of
operating the city's wastewater collection and conveyance system and wastewater
treatment plant and the facilities connected therewith, and the payment of
capital charges represented by bond, certificates of indebtedness, or
otherwise, which may be issued to finance the cost of additional treatment
facilities, and the payment of reasonable requirements for replacement and
obsolescence thereof, there is hereby levied and assessed upon each lot, parcel
of land, building, or premises having any connection with the city's public
sewer system, or otherwise discharging sewage, industrial wastewater, water, or
other liquids directly or indirectly into the public sewer system of the city,
a sewer rental charge as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Basis Of Charge: The sewer use rate to be so charged against any
property within the city of the general municipal user category shall be based
upon the quantity of water used at each lot, parcel of land, building or
premises as the water is measured by the water meter or meters there in use.
Industrial or other users which discharge flows with concentration in BOD, or
TSS greater than typical domestic sewage, or other components that effect the
treatment process and costs shall be charged a sewer use rate charge which
appropriately covers such additional costs.
   C.   Discharge Of Noncity Water Into System: In the event any lot, parcel of
land, building or premises discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastewater,
water or other liquids into the sanitary sewer system of the city, either
directly or indirectly, is supplied in whole or in part with water not obtained
from the city, the owner or occupant of such property shall cause to be
installed, necessary metering equipment as approved by the Public Works
Director to measure the quantity of water pumped or used, and the sewer rental
charge shall be based on the quantity of water so measured. Whenever the owner,
lessee, or occupant fails to install such metering equipment, or where it is
not practicable to measure the water consumed on any premises by a meter or
meters, the Public Works Director shall cause to be determined in such manner
and by such methods as may be practicable, considered conditions and attendant
circumstances in each case, the estimated volume of water from private sources
which discharge into the sanitary sewer system, and such estimate shall be used
in lieu of the meter volume of water from private sources to determine the
sewage rental charge thereon and therefor.
   D.   Unit Costs: The City of Baxter shall annually fix the unit costs for
use of the sewer system on the basis of flow (including infiltration/inflow),
BOD, SS and any other pollutant, taking into consideration the cost of
treatment of such sewage, and may increase or decrease such unit cost as often
and in such amounts as may reasonably be required to accomplish the purpose of
this chapter.
   E.   Billings:
      1.   Monthly Bill: Based upon the prior month's water meter reading, the
public utilities commission of the city shall send to each sewer user a
statement of the amount due for sewer used the past month, also including any
past due balance, which amount shall be due and payable to the public utilities
commission on or before the tenth of the following month and if not then paid,
shall be in default. The amounts due to the public utilities commission for
sewer usage will be computed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and statements will be rendered at the same time and on the same bill with the
city water and other utilities statements.
      2.   Delinquencies: Billings in default shall be charged a ten percent
(10%) surcharge thereon, plus additional late fees shall be assessed every
monthly billing period thereafter using the same calculation and an additional
fee shall be assessed if the city has to certify the delinquent fee to the
county for collection with real estate taxes. In addition, the city reserves
the right to delegate the collection of delinquent accounts to collection
agencies under contract with the city, bring civil action, or collect by any
other remedy available at law. The city reserves right to deny future utility
services at any other address within the city if the utility bill customer has
a delinquent or outstanding utility bill at any other previous address within
the city.
      3.   Shutoff for Nonpayment: In the event any sewer user shall be in
default in the payment of any utility bill exceeding sixty (60) days, such
water service, if provided by the city, shall be turned off until such utility
bill is paid together with a shutoff fee and an additional fee to cover the
cost of turning the water back on again. Said fees shall be set from time to
time by the city council. The fees and provisions set forth for shutoff for
nonpayment in chapter 1 of this title for waterworks shall likewise apply for
this chapter.
   F.   Audits: The City of Baxter shall once each year provide an internal
audit report that will address specific areas of concern including the need to
generate sufficient revenue through user charges to cover total O&M costs, the
necessity of maintaining a proportionate system of user charges pursuant to 40
CFR 35 93513 (b) and the need to review the replacement account to determine
its proper level of funding.
   G.   Collection With Taxes: Nothing in this chapter shall be held or
construed as in any way stopping or interfering with the city's right to levy
as taxes against any premises affected, any delinquent or past due sewer
charges. Each sewer charge levied by and pursuant to this chapter is hereby
made a lien upon the lot, land, or premises served, and all such charges which
are past due, and delinquent shall be certified to the city clerk, who shall
prepare an assessment roll providing for assessment of the delinquent amount
against the respective property served. The assessment roll shall be delivered
to the city council for adoption after due notice is given by mail to the
affected property owner. Upon such adoption, the clerk shall certify the
assessment roll to the county auditor for collection along with taxes as
authorized under Minnesota statutes section 444.075 after the city council
holds a public hearing regarding the proposed assessment. To appeal this
assessment, the property owner must present a written objection to the
assessment at said public hearing and then file a district court action in Crow
Wing County within thirty (30) days of said public hearing. The provisions set
forth for certification of unpaid charges in chapter 1 of this title for
waterworks shall likewise apply for this chapter.
   H.   Civil Action: Any charges levied by and pursuant to this chapter, not
paid and becoming delinquent may be recovered from the occupant of the premises
served in a civil action by the city in any court of competent jurisdiction, if
the city elects to do so.
   I.   Deposit Of Funds: The monies received from the rates and charges herein
established shall be deposited in the sewage disposal fund of the City of
Baxter and in accordance with any bond resolution or amendment directing their
payment.
   J.   Allocation Of Costs: The cost to be recovered pursuant to this chapter
and the unit cost to be fixed by the City of Baxter shall be determined and
allocated in each of the following categories:
      1.   Operation and Maintenance Of City's Wastewater Collection,
Conveyance, and Treatment Facilities: This category includes the cost of
administration, operation, maintenance and replacement for the city's
wastewater collection, conveyance, and the City's portion of the treatment
authority's treatment facilities, including sludge disposal costs, and
including an amount for replacement costs of equipment and real property which
shall be segregated in a separate fund. Replacement costs are expenditures for
obtaining and installing equipment, accessories, or appurtenances which are
necessary during the useful life of the treatment works to maintain the
capacity and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
      2.    Other fees as the City of Baxter may deem necessary to carry out
the requirements contained herein.
   K.   Industrial Users Charge: The category A industrial user charges for
administration, operation, maintenance and replacement of the wastewater
collection conveyance, and treatment facilities shall be determined as follows:
      1.   Unit costs for flow, BOD, and SS shall be calculated by apportioning
each category cost to flow, BOD, and SS, and then dividing each cost so
apportioned by the total estimated flow, BOD, and SS to be received at the
wastewater treatment plant in that year.
      2.   Industrial user charges shall be the sum of the procedures obtained
by multiplying the unit costs as determined above by the user's actual flow,
BOD, and SS during the billing period. However, in no case shall the charge be
less than that determined by applying the prevailing domestic flow rate charge
to the user's actual flow. In addition to the charges provided for herein, the
City of Baxter may impose a surcharge on any industrial user pursuant to the
requirements hereinbefore or based on some other pollutant loading factor which
requires special treatment at the wastewater treatment plant.
      3.   Industrial sewer service charges will include user charges and may
also include the annual interest and principal costs necessary to retire any
bonds issued to pay for construction with such debt retirement costs to be
determined and allocated in the same manner as described for annual operating
costs hereinbefore.
   L.   Measurements Of Strength and Volume: When required by the Public Works
Director, each industrial user shall install suitable measuring, sampling, and
analyzing devices in compliance with the sewer use code, as required
hereinbefore. The Public Works Director shall not require installation of such
devices where the industrial user has concentrations of BOD, and suspended
solids no greater than the concentrations of such constituents in the general
municipal flow and a satisfactory method and access exist for sampling and
determining the total daily sewage flow. In such cases, the charges to those
industrial users shall be based on the flow rate as determined and on BOD, and
SS loads equal to the average load of the general municipal flow. Each
industrial user required by the Public Works Director to install and maintain
sewerage monitoring facilities shall submit to the Public Works Director a
monthly report of daily flow, BOD, and SS, on a form approved by the Public
Works Director. This report shall be used for billing purposes and shall be
submitted prior to the fifteenth day of the subsequent month. The Public Works
Director shall have the right to inspect the monitoring facilities periodically
or continuously, to measure, sample, and analyze the user's flow and to analyze
the samples obtained by the industrial user. In the event of any discrepancy
between the flows or loads determined by the Public Works Director and the
industrial user, the values determined by the Public Works Director shall be
used for billing purposes. All measurements, tests, and analyses of the
characteristics of sewage concentration shall be determined in accordance with
the latest edition of "Standard Methods for The Examination of Water and
Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association and shall be
determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples taken at
said manhole. If no special manhole is available, the control manhole shall be
the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. A twenty-four (24) hour composite sample of the
sewage shall be taken by the Public Works Director at least once each year on
those customers being assessed a surcharge for the purpose of verifying sample
results.
   M.   Charges For Nonindustrial Users:
      1.   The category A charge for general users for this chapter shall be
determined as follows: unit costs for flow, BOD, SS shall be calculated by
apportioning the total annual cost of category A to flow, BOD, and SS. The
general users charge shall be the sum of the products obtained by multiplying
the unit costs as determined above by the flow, BOD, and SS loadings of one
thousand (1,000) gallons of domestic wastewater.
      2.   The charges to domestic users shall be the product of the unit cost
obtained in accordance with subsection O1 of this section and the quantity of
water used by such user as measured by the city water meter on the premises.
The charges to commercial users with BOD and SS concentrations equal to or less
than domestic wastes shall be the product of the unit cost obtained in
accordance with subsection O1 of this section and the quantity of water used by
such user as measured by the city water meter on the premises. The charges to
institutional users with BOD and SS concentrations equal to or less than
domestic wastewater shall be the product of the unit cost obtained in
accordance with subsection O1 of this section, and the quantity of water used
by such user as measured by the city water meter on the premises. The charges
to governmental users with BOD and SS concentrations equal to or less than
domestic wastewater shall be the product of the unit cost obtained as described
above and the quantity of water used by such user as measured by the water
meter on the premises. In the event a general municipal user is not supplied
with city water or the water so used is not measured, the user charge shall be
fixed and determined by the Public Works Director by such methods as he may
find just, equitable, and practicable. In the event sewer service is
disconnected by the city during any quarter for any reason, the sewer service
charge shall be reduced proportionately in the same manner that water service
rates are reduced. If a substantial portion of the water utilized by any user
is not discharged into the sewer system, the volume of such water shall be
deducted in computing the sewer use charge, provided a separate meter is
installed to measure such volume. The user desiring to install such separate
meter shall make application and payment for the meter to the Public Works
Director and engage, at his own expense, a plumber to effect the necessary
piping changes and install the couplings so the meter can be set. Nonindustrial
sewer service charges will include user charges and may also include the annual
interest and principal cost necessary to retire any bonds issued to pay for
construction with such debt retirement costs to be determined and allocated in
the same manner described for annual operating costs hereinbefore.
   N.   Control Structure: When required by the Public Works Director, the
owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastewater shall install a suitable control structure, together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling, and measurement of wastewater. The structures and
equipment when required shall be constructed at the owner's expense in
accordance with plans approved by the Public Works Director and shall be
maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times. See
subsection
8-2-10 B of this chapter for specific requirements for a control structure
(monitoring point).
   O.   Measurement, Tests, Standard: All measurements, tests, and analyses of
the characteristics of water and wastewater to which reference is made in this
chapter shall be determined in accordance with 40 CFR 136 (guidelines
establishing test procedures for analysis of pollutants), the latest edition of
"Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater", and shall be
determined at the control structure provided, or upon suitable samples taken at
said control structure. In the event that no special structure has been
required, the control structure shall be construed to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer from the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate, or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composite of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab
samples.)
   P.   Other Test: The Public Works Director may conduct such tests as are
necessary to enforce this regulation, and employees of the City of Baxter may
enter upon any property for the purpose of taking samples, obtaining
information or conducting surveys or investigations relating to such
enforcement. Entry shall be made during operating hours unless circumstances
require otherwise. In all cases where tests are conducted by the Public Works
Director for the purpose of checking to determine if a previously found
violation of this chapter has been corrected, the cost of such tests shall be
charged to the user or added to the user's sewer charges. In those cases where
the Public Works Director determines that the nature or volume of a particular
user's sewage requires more frequent than normal testing, the Public Works
Director may charge such user for the tests, after giving the user ten (10)
days' written notice of its intention to do so, and the cost thereof shall be
added to the user's sewer charge. In any case where industrial wastewater is
discharged to a public sewer, the Public Works Director may require the user at
his own expense to test the discharge on a regular basis and to report the test
results to the Public Works Director within a reasonable time. All such tests
shall be as ordered by the Public Works Director and shall be conducted by
qualified personnel in accordance with the standards set out in this chapter.
See section
8-2-11  of this chapter for the specific requirements for sampling and testing
for industries with discharge permits.
   Q.   Other Fees: The fees and provisions set forth for excavation permits,
inspection fees and nonuser fees in chapter 1 of this title for waterworks
shall likewise apply to this chapter. (Ord. 2024-006, - -2024)
8-2-17: SEWER AVAILABILITY CHARGE (SAC):
   A.   Description Of the SAC Systems:
      1.   The sewer availability charge (SAC charge) is similar to fees used
by many municipalities. Since 1990 a SAC fee has been levied by the city of
Baxter for new connections, commercial users and industrial users who remodel/
alter, change use or add onto their facility and have not paid a SAC fee in the
past. One SAC unit equals two hundred seventy-four (274) gallons of maximum
potential daily wastewater flow usage. Single-family houses, townhouses, duplex
units, apartments and multi-dwelling facilities included in each unit each
equal one SAC unit per dwelling unit. Commercial buildings are levied SAC units
based on maximum potential daily wastewater flowage. Industrial buildings are
assessed SAC based on maximum potential daily wastewater flowage and maximum
normal daily wastewater flow volume for process areas and maximum potential
wastewater flow for commercial areas.
      2.   The city of Baxter is the provider of sanitary sewer service in the
SAC system. The city of Baxter collects SAC fees from property owners.
Generally, the city of Baxter issues a permit (building permits, electrical
permits, plumbing permits and zoning permits) which indicates that development
or redevelopment is occurring. In turn, the development or redevelopment
triggers a SAC determination or redetermination. The city of Baxter makes all
industrial, residential and commercial determinations. General maintenance on
industrial, residential and commercial buildings, not including remodeling and
alterations, are exempt from SAC fees.
      3.   The SAC revenue collected by the city of Baxter is used to finance a
portion of the sanitary sewer system. Capital improvement costs are initially
financed by debt and involve the building and upgrading of the sanitary sewer
system. SAC revenue finances a portion of the sanitary sewer system debt
service annually, also called the annual SAC requirement.
      4.   SAC revenue is held in the SAC reserve fund until utilized for the
annual SAC requirement. The per unit charge for each calendar year is
determined and approved by the city council. in conjunction with the budget
process. The rate for subsequent years shall be subject to review and is
dependent on factors including the annual SAC requirement and the forecasted
number of SAC units to be collected. Commercial SAC rates have typically been
slightly higher than residential rates to account for higher peak flow
typically seen from commercial facilities.
   B.   History of the SAC Program:
      1.   SAC fees have been levied by the city of Baxter since 1990. The city
of Baxter must provide sanitary sewer service to a rapidly growing population,
commercial base, and industrial base. The policy was further updated when this
code was codified in 2002.
      2.   Heavy capital costs are inevitable, as the city of Baxter has and
will continue to expand and improve its treatment and collection system for the
community as its population, commercial base and industrial base continues to
change and grow.
      3.   The issue facing the city is how to fund the expansion and updates
of its collection and treatment system. Treatment regulations are becoming more
stringent in recent years and will continue to be more stringent as we move
into the future. Expanding the system and meeting new, more stringent,
discharge regulations require that the system be designed and built to meet
these requirements for the next twenty (20) years.
      4.   The practice of building in capacity and treatment flexibility is
based upon experience and the economy. The physical sites of sewer collection
systems and wastewater treatment plants seldom change, so major land
acquisition occurs only once. Further economies of scale of construction make
it more cost effective to provide capacity and treatment alternatives at the
time that major construction occurs rather than make small frequent
infrastructure changes.
      5.   There have been court challenges to SAC in other communities. In a
district court ruling, later upheld by the Minnesota supreme court, SAC systems
were found consistent with state law. Based on the above court decision it is
common for municipalities to implement a WAC system in the same format as a SAC
system.
   C.   Residential And Commercial:
      1.   Initial Determinations (New Construction or Initial Connection): The
computation of SAC units for a given property is referred to as a
determination. Determinations are generally triggered by building permits,
electrical permits, plumbing permits and zoning permits. Examples include the
construction of a house, a house connecting to sewer for the first time or
construction or modification to a commercial building.
      2.   Residential SAC: The following types of residential housing each
comprise one SAC unit per dwelling unit:
         a.   New single-family houses: A single-dwelling unit.
         b.   Existing single-family houses: Houses built with a private septic
system and subsequently connected to the city system shall be charged at the
rate used prior to 1990 due to the cost of installing the original private
septic system and the amount being assessed to the properties for the public
improvements.
         c.   Duplex units, apartments units, condominiums units and townhouse
units: A multi-dwelling facility included in each unit.
      3.   Commercial SAC:
         a.    A "commercial user" in the city of Baxter is defined as any user
that is not a residence and that discharges no wastewater from an industrial
process.
         b.   Individual businesses occupying the same building are subject to
a SAC charge. The SAC charge will be calculated for the entire building and
prorated on a percentage of area occupied by each business.
         c.   The SAC charge will be determined by calculating the equivalent
residential connection (ERC) in accordance with appendix A.
         d.   For commercial users who propose to change the use of or remodel/
alter their facility and have not paid a SAC fee prior to 1990 will have a SAC
fee charge based on the original use of the building. Any change in use within
the original building will be charged at the current rate and the SAC fee must
be paid at the time of the building permit. The SAC for commercial buildings
that have a change of use or remodel/alter will be calculated based on ERCs in
accordance with appendix A. The SAC calculation will be based on the entire
building regardless of the area being modified.
      4.   Ongoing Determinations:
         a.   Anytime there is a change in use, a SAC determination must take
place. Sometimes, this is referred to as a redetermination; simply meaning this
is not the first SAC determination to take place on the site. Most
redeterminations are triggered by city issued building permits, electrical
permits, plumbing permits and zoning permits. A redetermination is necessary
when the use of the property has changed or when a physical change in the
facility occurs.
         b.   If it is determined, at the sole discretion of the city, that
there have been prior building permits issued by the city in which the SAC and
WAC should have been recalculated, then the city shall charge the applicant at
the rates in place when that prior permit was pulled for any charge that should
have been allocated at that time. If no permit has been issued since 1990 the
fee shall be calculated based on the 1990 rate. This credit shall not apply to
charges due for additional ERCs due for proposed improvements.
      5.   SAC Credits:
         a.   Credit for SAC previously paid on a site is allowed when there is
a new use established on a property. The credit is stated in units and is used
to offset the SAC unit determination of the new use. The purpose of SAC credits
is to avoid double payment of SAC on a specific parcel of land. The SAC credits
stay with the specific parcel and may not be transferred to another parcel.
      6.   Demolitions:
         a.   A demolition is when a structure or building is destroyed. SAC
credit will be allowed at the time the new use is established for SAC fees
previously paid into the system. The SAC credits must be used on the same
parcel in which the demolition took place.
      7.   Rules Governing The Use Of Credits:
         a.   SAC credits can only be used when there is a new use established
on the property. Credits cannot be taken at the time of demolition or at the
time a business shuts down. The SAC credits stay with the specific parcel and
may not be transferred to another parcel.
   D.   Industrial SAC:
      1.   Initial Determinations (New Construction or Initial Connection):
         a.   The computation of SAC units for a given property is referred to
as a determination. Determinations are generally triggered by building permits,
electrical permits, plumbing permits or zoning permits.
         b.   The SAC charge will be determined by calculating the equivalent
residential connection (ERC) in accordance with appendix A.
      2.   Definition of Industrial User: "Industrial user" has a particular,
special definition for SAC purposes. It does not include all industries.
"Industrial user" for SAC purposes is an industry producing wastewater from an
industrial process; it is an industry which holds an industrial discharge
permit or is subject to being permitted. Many businesses commonly referred to
as industries are not "industries" for SAC purposes and would be subject to
commercial criteria for SAC purposes. Because the definition of industrial user
for the purpose of SAC is somewhat ambiguous, the city of Baxter will make
final decision on whether an "industry" will follow industrial criteria for SAC
purposes.
      3.   SAC Determination for Industrial Users: Industrial SAC
determinations are derived by adding two (2) components: commercial criteria
for non-process areas and the sum of maximum domestic wastewater flow plus the
normal maximum industrial process wastewater flow for process areas.
      4.   For industrial users who propose a change in use, choose to remodel
or expand their facility and have not paid a SAC prior to 1990, the SAC must be
paid at the time of the building permit. If no permit has been issued since
1990 the fee shall be calculated based on the 1990 rate. The SAC will be
calculated as outlined above.
      5.   Three Year Review:
         a.   Because industrial determinations involve both commercial and
industrial criteria, redeterminations can be triggered by changes in either the
commercial or industry component. Similar to commercial, building permits or
changes in use can trigger redeterminations subject to additional SAC charges.
In addition, industrial users may increase wastewater flow without remodeling,
simply by expanding the workday or the rate of activity. In these cases, no
building or plumbing permit need be issued; however, a redetermination is
needed.
         b.   Because of the above reasons, the city of Baxter may complete a
redetermination on a three (3) year review of maximum wastewater and water flow
from industrial facilities. If it is determined that additional SAC fees are
required, the city of Baxter will contact the industrial user to meet and
review the data. After review of the data, the city of Baxter will invoice the
industrial user for the additional SAC fees.
      6.   SAC Credits:
         a.   Credit for SAC previously paid on a site is allowed when there is
a new use established on a property. The credit is stated in units and is used
to offset the SAC determination of the new use. The purpose of SAC credits is
to avoid double payment of SAC on a specific parcel of land.
      7.   Demolitions:
         a.   A demolition is when a structure or building is destroyed. SAC
credit will be allowed at the time the new use is established for SAC fees
previously paid into the system. The SAC credits must be used on the same
parcel in which the demolition took place.
      8.   Rules Governing the Use of Credits:
         a.   SAC credits can only be used when there is a new use established
on the property. Credits cannot be taken at the time of demolition or at the
time a business discontinues operations. The SAC credits stay with the specific
parcel and may not be transferred to another parcel.
      9.   Special Credit Situations:
         a.   A different type of credit situation is an industrial user that
permanently changes its industrial process to discharge less wastewater. The
modification typically occurs among industrial users holding industrial
discharge permits and subject to industrial strength charges. Their discharge
includes sanitary wastewater and industrial wastewater. By modifying its
industrial process, an industrial user may reduce its industrial strength
charges (based on treatment demand), its sewer service charges (based on flow
volume) and its need for capacity. The modification may occur with little or no
change in its exterior building. When a change permanently reduces wastewater
flow usage, the city of Baxter recognizes this as a change in use and will
allow credit to the SAC. The city of Baxter must approve all such credits to
ensure the process change is permanent.
   E.   Appendix A:
      1.   Tables set forth in the city of Baxter "appendix A: SAC criteria for
commercial properties" most current edition plus any amendments. (Ord. 2024-
006, - -2024)
CHAPTER 3
ESSENTIAL SERVICE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-3-1: Intent And Purpose
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Zoning Regulations
8-3-4: Permits Required
8-3-5: Plan Submission And Review
8-3-6: Violation; Penalty
8-3-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
   A.   Protecting the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare;
   B.   Promoting orderly development of the residential, business, industrial,
recreational and public areas;
   C.   Providing for adequate light, air and convenience of access to property
by regulating the use of land and building and the bulk of structures in
relationship to surrounding properties;
   D.   Limiting congestion in the public rights of way;
   E.   Providing for the administration of this chapter and defining the
powers and duties of the administrating officer as provided hereinafter; and
   F.   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
chapter or any amendment thereto. (Ord. 55.1, 9-5-1995)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise clearly indicated, all words and meanings within this chapter
shall be the same as found within title 10 of this code:
DISTRIBUTION LINES: A. Electric power lines under thirty five (35) KV;
   B.   Telephone lines between an exchange and subscribers and telephone lines
between exchanges served on a cable basis;
   C.   Pipelines for natural gas or other buried pipelines not exceeding eight
inches (8") outside pipe diameter;
   D.   Other underground communication lines; and
   E.   Cable television (CTV) lines.
ESSENTIAL SERVICE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS: Distribution lines and such other
structures or special structures which are used together to make such a system.
(Ord. 55.1, 9-5-1995)
8-3-3: ZONING REGULATIONS:
Unless otherwise clearly indicated, nothing within this chapter shall imply any
elimination or reduction in the requirements found within title 10 of this
code. Additional requirements to those herein set forth are or may be
applicable and may be found within the standards of title 10 of this code.
(Ord. 55.1, 9-5-1995)
8-3-4: PERMITS REQUIRED:
Utility permits are required for all parts of a public utility or essential
service distribution system, but are not required for hookups between the
distribution system and the service user or subscriber. The city shall appoint
a public works director, who (with the advice and assistance of the city's
consulting engineer) shall review plans, issue or deny permits, and perform
other duties as outlined in this chapter. (Ord. 55.1, 9-5-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
8-3-5: PLAN SUBMISSION AND REVIEW:
   A.   Application: Prior to the commencement of a construction project to
install or extend an essential service distribution system, an application for
a utility permit under this chapter and title 10 of this code must be submitted
to the city. The application must show such information as may be needed for
the evaluation and approval, including locations, alignment and type of
service.
   B.   Review By Public Works Director:
      1.   Certification: The public works director shall review such plans;
and, within thirty (30) days, certify to the plan submitter that the plans do
or do not meet all applicable regulations.
      2.   Approval: If all applicable regulations are met, the public works
director shall issue the utility permit.
      3.   Denial: The public works director shall deny issuance of the
necessary utility permit for any such project where the project does not meet
all ordinances and regulations. In case such permit is disapproved, the project
work cannot be commenced.
      4.   Appeal: Any appeal by the plan submitter of the action of the public
works director in implementing this chapter shall be first submitted for review
by the public utilities commission and then in turn by the planning and zoning
commission, each of whom shall provide their recommendations to the city
council within thirty (30) days. Thereafter, within the next succeeding thirty
(30) days, the city council shall rule on the appeal.
   C.   Conditional Use Permit:
      1.   Required: Where the city council has, by resolution, required that a
development proposal for an essential service distribution system be reviewed
by the city council, then a conditional use permit shall be required prior to
the issuance of a utility permit.
      2.   Application Review: The public works director, together with the
public utilities commission, shall review such development proposal and the
conditional use permit application; and, within thirty (30) days, make a
recommendation to the planning and zoning commission.
      3.   Hearing; Notice: Notice of any public hearing shall be given to the
applicant and published in the designated official newspaper at least ten (10)
days and no more than thirty (30) days prior to such hearing.
      4.   Council Action: After public hearing and input from the planning and
zoning commission, the council may, by resolution, approve or disapprove the
development proposal in conjunction with the conditional use permit
application. The council, in making its decision whether to grant or deny any
such development proposal and the associated conditional use permit, with or
without modifications, shall be guided by the same standards as set forth in
section
8-3-1 of this chapter and as set forth in title 10 of this code. (Ord. 55.1, 9-
5-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
8-3-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that the violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 55.1, 9-5-1995; amd. 2002 Code)
   B.   Additional Remedies: In the event of a violation or a threatened
violation of this chapter, the council, or any member thereof, in addition to
other remedies, may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent,
restrain, correct, or abate such violation and it is the duty of the attorney
to institute such action.
   C.   Mandamus Proceedings: Any taxpayer may institute mandamus proceedings
in district court to compel specific performance by the proper official of any
duty required by this chapter. (Ord. 55.1, 9-5-1995)
CHAPTER 4
STORMWATER UTILITY DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose
8-4-2: General Operation
8-4-3: Definitions
8-4-4: Utility Fee
8-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a city of Baxter stormwater
improvement district which shall include all lands within the city limits. The
objectives are to acquire, construct, reconstruct, extend and maintain
stormwater ponds, storm sewer systems and related facilities within the
district. (Ord. 2006-18, 5-16-2006)
8-4-2: GENERAL OPERATION:
The city stormwater system shall be operated as a public utility (hereinafter
called the "stormwater utility" or "utility"), pursuant to Minnesota statutes
section 444.075, from which revenues will be derived subject to the provisions
of this chapter and said Minnesota statute. (Ord. 2006-18, 5-16-2006)
8-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the meanings as defined below solely for this
chapter:
COMMERCIAL: Any use other than residential. As excluded by definition of
residential uses, commercial uses shall include multi-family dwellings,
institutions, industrial and all other uses.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A hard surface area that either prevents or retards the
entry of water into the soil. Examples of impervious surfaces include, but are
not limited to: roofs, storage areas, walkways, sidewalks, patios, driveways,
parking lots, concrete paving, bituminous/asphalt paving, gravel roads or
parking areas, and other packed earthen materials.
RESIDENTIAL: Any use designed for a dwelling, including single-family dwellings
and duplexes (2 dwellings per structure), but excluding any other multi-family
structure that has three (3) or more units.
SINGLE-FAMILY: Any residential use where there is only one family per
structure.
UNIT: The space apportioned for one family within a multi-family structure or
an apartment.
USE: Any improvements to a parcel which create impervious surface area, but
excluding cemeteries, public roads and parks.
UTILITY FEE: The annual charge for stormwater costs assessed to each parcel.
(Ord. 2006-18, 5-16-2006; amd. Ord. 2008-1, 1-2-2008)
8-4-4: UTILITY FEE:
   A.   Determination: The stormwater utility fees set forth below are based
upon the one hundred percent (100%) financing of the stormwater budget for the
city of Baxter as calculated by the most recent revision of the city of Baxter
stormwater utility policy manual. These calculations were determined by
examining the existing impervious coverage within Baxter and comparing how
different uses affect water quality. These rates may change by resolution of
the Baxter city council based upon later studies, data or budget needs.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   a. Residential: As per the most recent utility fee schedule adopted
by council resolution.
         b.   Commercial: As per the most recent utility fee schedule adopted
by council resolution.
      2.   All uses shall pay at least one equivalent residential unit.
      3.   The utility fee shall be adjusted if the owner increases the
impervious surface area or the city determines that past calculations of the
impervious surface area were incorrect. Said adjustment shall be due the month
following change.
   C.   Credits: The most recent revision of the stormwater utility policy
manual may include methods by which a property owner may apply for an
adjustment to their utility fees. Information to justify a utility fee
adjustment must be supplied in writing by the property owner. Any adjustment
shall not be retroactive and shall be reviewed by the public works director.
Adjustments may be reviewed by the utilities commission and council like any
other appeal as set forth below. (Ord. 2006-18, 5-16-2006)
   D.   Billings:
      1.   Payment: Utility fees shall be collected each month with other city
utility bills. The utility fee shall be due and payable at the same time and
upon the same terms as other city utility bills. If a use is not currently
served by city utilities, an annual bill shall be sent to the property owner in
the month of June and shall be due within thirty (30) days of mailing for the
initial billing (commercial users with more than 8 ERUs shall continue to be
billed monthly even without other utilities).
      2.   Delinquencies: Any utility fee billed on a monthly basis that is not
paid when due shall be assessed a late fee equaling ten percent (10%) of the
amount then due, plus additional late fees shall be assessed every monthly
billing period thereafter using the same calculation and an additional fee
shall be assessed if the city has to certify the delinquent fee to the county
for collection with real estate taxes. Any utility fee billed on an annual
basis that is not paid when due shall be assessed a late fee equaling ten
percent (10%) of the amount then due after thirty (30) days of mailing for the
initial delinquency notice, plus additional late fees shall be assessed every
monthly billing period thereafter using the same calculation and an additional
fee shall be assessed if the city has to certify the delinquent fee to the
county for collection with real estate taxes. In addition, the city reserves
the right to delegate the collection of delinquent accounts to collection
agencies under contract with the city, bring civil action, or collect by any
other remedy available at law. The city reserves right to deny future utility
services at any other address within the city if the utility bill customer has
a delinquent or outstanding utility bill at any other previous address within
the city.
   E.   Collection With Taxes: Nothing in this chapter shall be held or
construed as in any way stopping or interfering with the city's right to levy
as taxes against any premises affected, any delinquent or past due stormwater
charges. Each and every stormwater charge levied by and pursuant to this
chapter is hereby made a lien upon the lot, land, or premises served, and all
such charges which are past due and delinquent, shall be certified to the city
clerk, who shall prepare an assessment roll providing for assessment of the
delinquent amount against the respective property served. The assessment roll
shall be delivered to the city council for adoption after due notice is given
by mail to the affected property owner. Upon such adoption, the clerk shall
certify the assessment roll to the county auditor for collection along with
taxes as authorized under Minnesota statutes section 444.075 after the city
council holds a public hearing regarding the proposed assessment. To appeal
this assessment, the property owner must present a written objection to the
assessment at said public hearing and then file a district court action in Crow
Wing County within thirty (30) days of said public hearing. The provisions set
forth for certification of unpaid charges in chapter 1 of this title for
waterworks shall likewise apply for this chapter. (Ord. 2008-9, 6-3-2008)
   F.   Appeal: If a property owner or person responsible for paying the
utility fee believes that a particular utility fee is incorrect, such person
may request that the fee be recomputed by the public works director. If said
person still believes the city is in error, they may request a hearing in front
of the utilities commission at the next regularly scheduled meeting. Said
property owner may appeal any decision of the utilities commission to the city
council by making a written request to be on the council agenda within thirty
(30) days of the utilities commission ruling. (Ord. 2006-18, 5-16-2006)
CHAPTER 5
STORMWATER CONTROL AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Authorization, Findings, Purpose, Scope, And Interpretation
8-5-3: Definitions
8-5-4: Land Disturbance Activities Subject To A Stormwater Management Plan
8-5-5: Land Disturbance Activities Subject To The NPDES Stormwater General
Construction Permit
8-5-6: Stormwater Design Performance Standards
8-5-7: Application Review
8-5-8: Financial Security For Projects Subject To A Development Agreement
8-5-9: Stormwater Facilities Inspection, Maintenance Agreement And Permit
Transfer
8-5-10: Enforcement
8-5-11: Right Of Entry And Inspection
8-5-12: Illicit Discharge Prohibition
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Control or eliminate stormwater pollution along with soil erosion and
sedimentation within the City of Baxter, Crow Wing County, MN. (City)
   B.   Limit surface runoff volumes and reduce pollutant loading.
   C.   Establish surface water management requirements to protect and
safeguard the general health, safety and welfare of the public. It establishes
standards and specifications for conservation practices and planning
activities, which minimize stormwater pollution, soil erosion, and
sedimentation.
      1.   This chapter establishes a City of Baxter Stormwater Management
Plan, which requires the applicant to develop a plan and implement Best
Management Practices (BMPs), which shall be calculated to prevent stormwater
pollution from the beginning of site activity to final stabilization.
      2.   This chapter's plan review process and requirements will include
post- construction management. It requires the permit applicant to plan for,
implement, and maintain all new development and redevelopment post-construction
stormwater management activities.
   D.   Reserve the right for the City to impose any and all additional
requirements deemed necessary to control the volume, timing, and rate of runoff
of hydrologic or topographic conditions that warrant greater control than that
provided by the minimum control requirements.
   E.   Require all site designs establish stormwater management practices to
control the peak flow rates of stormwater discharge associated with specified
design storms and reduce the generation of stormwater thereby utilizing
pervious areas for stormwater treatment and infiltrating stormwater runoff from
driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots, and landscaped areas.
   F.   Require that all stormwater runoff generated from new development shall
not discharge untreated stormwater directly into a jurisdictional wetland or
local water body without adequate treatment.
   G.   Prohibit illicit connections and discharge to the Municipal Separate
Storm Sewer System (MS4).
   H.   Establish the legal authority to carry out all inspections,
surveillance, monitoring and correction measures necessary to ensure compliance
with this chapter. (Ord. 2023-007, 4-18-2023)
8-5-2: AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS, PURPOSE, SCOPE, AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Statutory authorization:
      1.   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and policies
contained in Minnesota Statutes Chapters 103B and 462; Minnesota Rules, Parts
6120.2500 - 6120.3900; and Minnesota Rules Chapters 8410 and 8420.
      2.   This chapter is intended to meet the current construction site
erosion and sediment control and post-construction stormwater management
regulatory requirements for construction activity and small construction
activity (NPDES Permit) as defined in 40 CFR pt. 122.26(b)(14)(x) and (b)(15),
respectively.
      3.   This chapter is intended to meet the Minimal Impact Design Standards
(MIDS) developed under Minnesota Statutes 2009, section 115.03, subdivision 5c.
   B.   Findings: The City finds that uncontrolled stormwater runoff and
construction site erosion from land development and land disturbing activity
can have significant adverse impacts upon local and regional water resources
diminishing the quality of public health, safety, public and private property
and natural resources of the community. Specifically, uncontrolled soil erosion
and stormwater runoff can:
      1.   Threaten public health, safety, property and general welfare by
increasing runoff volumes and peak flood flows and overburdening storm sewers,
drainage ways and other storm drainage systems.
      2.   Diminish the capacity of lakes and streams to support fish, aquatic
life, recreational and water supply uses by increasing pollutant loadings of
sediment, suspended solids, nutrients, heavy metals, toxics, debris, bacteria,
pathogens, biological impairments, thermal stress and other pollutants.
      3.   Degrade physical stream/river habitat by increasing bank erosion,
increasing stream bed scour, diminishing groundwater recharge, diminishing
stream base flows and increasing stream temperatures.
      4.   Undermine floodplain management efforts by increasing the incidence
and levels of flooding.
      5.   Alter wetland communities by changing wetland hydrology and
increasing pollutant loads.
      6.   Impact groundwater by reducing recharge and increasing potential
pollutant loading.
   C.   Purpose: The general purpose of this guidance is to establish an
ordinance with regulatory requirements for land development and land disturbing
activities aimed at minimizing the threats to public health, safety, public and
private property and natural resources within the community from construction
site erosion and post-construction stormwater runoff.
      Specific purposes are to establish performance goals that will:
      1.   Meet MIDS performance goals.
      2.   Assist in meeting NPDES/SDS Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
(MS4) and Construction Stormwater General Permit requirements.
      3.   Assist in meeting Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) plan wasteload
allocations for impaired waters through quantification of load reductions.
      4.   Protect life and property from dangers associated with flooding.
      5.   Protect public and private property and natural resources from
damage resulting from stormwater runoff and erosion.
      6.   Ensure the annual stormwater runoff rates and volumes from post
development site conditions mimic and/or reduce the annual runoff rates and
volumes from predevelopment site conditions.
      7.   Ensure site design minimizes the generation of stormwater and
maximizes pervious areas for stormwater treatment.
      8.   Provide a single, consistent set of performance goals that apply to
all developments.
      9.   Protect water quality from pollutant loadings of sediment, suspended
solids, nutrients, heavy metals, toxics, debris, bacteria, pathogens,
biological impairments, thermal stress and other pollutants.
      10.   Promote infiltration and groundwater recharge.
      11.   Provide vegetated corridors (buffers) to protect water resources
from development.
      12.   Protect functional values of all types of natural waterbodies
(e.g., rivers, streams, wetlands, lakes, seasonal ponds).
      13.   Sustain or enhance biodiversity (native plant and animal habitat)
and support riparian ecosystems.
   D.   Scope: Land shall not be developed for any use without having provided
stormwater management measures and erosion and sediment control measures that
control or manage stormwater runoff from such developments.
   E.   Greater restrictions: Relationship To Existing Easements, Covenants,
And Deed Restrictions: The provisions of this chapter are not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
   F.   Severability: The provisions of this chapter are severable, and if any
provision of this chapter, or application of any provision of this chapter to
any circumstance, is held invalid, the application of such provision to other
circumstances, and the remainder of this chapter must not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2023-007, 4-18-2023)
8-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
                Any person or group that applies for a building permit, grading permit, or zoning
                approvals to allow land disturbing activities. Applicant also means that person's
APPLICANT:      agents, employees, and others acting under this person's or group's direction. The
                term "applicant" also refers to the permit holder or holders and the permit holder's
                agents, employees, and others acting under this person's or group's direction.
                Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, general good housekeeping
                practices, pollutions prevention and educational practices, maintenance procedures,
                erosion and sediment control and water quality management practices that are the
                most effective and practicable means of controlling, preventing, and minimizing
BEST MANAGEMENT degradation of surface water, stormwater, or stormwater conveyance systems.
PRACTICES       Erosion and sediment control BMPs include avoidance of impacts, construction-
(BMPs):         phasing, minimizing the length of time soil areas are exposed, prohibitions, and
                other management practices published by State or designated area-wide planning
                agencies. BMPs shall be as set forth in the current version of Minnesota Stormwater
                Manual, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, 2006, as amended, unless a custom plan
                is specifically authorized by the City.
                The control and management of stormwater quantity and quality through the
                application of Better Site Design Techniques as outlined in the current version of
BETTER SITE     the MPCA Minnesota Stormwater Manual. Better Site Design includes: preservation of
DESIGN:         natural areas; site reforestation; stream and shoreland buffers; open space design;
                disconnection of impervious cover; rooftop disconnection; grass channels; stormwater
                landscaping; compost and amended soils; impervious surface reduction; and trout
                stream protection.
BMP(s):         Stormwater Best Management Practices.
BUFFER:         A regulated area where scrutiny will be exercised over activities near wetlands and
                water bodies and a non-disturbance area where natural vegetation must be maintained.
                A contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct land disturbing activities
COMMON PLAN OF  may be taking place at different times, or on different schedules, but under one
DEVELOPMENT OR  proposed plan. This item is broadly defined to include design, permit application,
SALE:           advertisement or physical demarcation indicating that land disturbing activities may
                occur.
                Includes construction activity as defined in 40 CFR pt. 122.26(b)(14)(x) and small
                construction activity as defined in 40 CFR pt. 122.26(b)(15) and construction
                activity as defined by Minn. R. 709.0080, subp. 4. This includes a disturbance to
                the land that results in a change in the topography, existing soil cover (both
                vegetative and non-vegetative), or the existing soil topography that may result in
                accelerated stormwater runoff, leading to soil erosion and movement of sediment into
CONSTRUCTION    surface waters or drainage systems. Examples of construction activity may include
ACTIVITY:       clearing, grading, filling, and excavating. Construction activity includes the
                disturbance of less than one acre of total land area that is a part of a larger
                common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will ultimately disturb
                one (1) acre or more. Construction activity does not include a disturbance to the
                land of less than five (5) acres for the purpose of routine maintenance that is
                performed to maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, or original
                purpose of the facility.
                A plan that describes the strategies, applications, and schedule of events for
CONSTRUCTION    transitioning from construction activity related temporary erosion control measures
STABILIZATION   to achieving final stabilization on the site with permanent cover practices. The
PLAN:           plan shall illustrate the permanent erosion control measures and final planting and
                seeding practices and locations. See FINAL STABILIZATION and PERMANENT COVER.
                This permit regulates discharges associated with stormwater affected by construction
                activity to waters of the state of Minnesota. This permit is issued in compliance
                with the provisions of the Clean Water Act, as amended, (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), 40
                CFR 122, 123, 124, and 450 as amended; Minnesota Statutes chapters 115 and 116, as
CONSTRUCTION    amended, and Minn. R. chs. 7001, 7050, 7060 and 7090. Minn. R. 7090.2040 requires
STORMWATER      owner(s) of a construction activity to complete a Stormwater Pollution Prevention
GENERAL PERMIT  Plan (SWPPP) prior to submitting an application for this permit and prior to
(CSW):          conducting any construction activity. No person shall commence construction activity
                covered by Part I.A. of the CSW until permit coverage under this permit is effective
                or, if applicable, until the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) has issued an
                individual National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)/State Disposal
                System (SDS) Construction Stormwater (CSW) Permit for the project.
DEVELOPER:      Any person, group, firm, corporation, sole proprietorship, partnership, State
                agency, or political subdivision thereof engaged in a land disturbance activity.
                Any land disturbance activity that changes the site's runoff characteristics in
DEVELOPMENT:    conjunction with residential, commercial, industrial or institutional construction
                or alteration. See DEVELOPMENT, NEW and REDEVELOPMENT.
                Any development that results in the conversion of land that is currently prairie,
DEVELOPMENT,    agriculture, forest, or meadow and has less than fifteen percent (15%) impervious
NEW:            surface. Land that was previously developed, but now razed and vacant, will not be
                considered new development.
                The removal of water for construction activity. It can be a discharge of
                appropriated surface or groundwater to dry and/or solidify a construction site. It
DEWATERING:     may require Minnesota Department of Natural Resources permits to be appropriated and
                if contaminated may require other Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) permit
                to be discharged.
DISCHARGE:      The release, conveyance, channeling, runoff, or drainage, of stormwater, including
                snowmelt, from a construction site.
ENERGY          This refers to methods employed at pipe outlets to prevent erosion. Examples
DISSIPATION:    include, but are not limited to: aprons, riprap, splash pads, and gabions that are
                designed to prevent erosion.
EROSION:        Any process that wears away the surface of the land by the action of water, wind,
                ice, or gravity. Erosion can be accelerated by the activities of people and nature.
EROSION         Refers to methods employed to prevent erosion. Examples include soil stabilization
CONTROL/        practices, horizontal slope grading, temporary, or permanent cover, and construction
PREVENTION:     phasing.
                All areas of the construction site where the vegetation (trees, shrubs, brush,
                grasses, etc.) or impervious surface has been disturbed or removed thus rendering
EXPOSED SOIL    the soil more prone to erosion. This includes topsoil stockpile areas; borrow areas,
AREAS:          and disposal areas, within the construction site. It does not include stockpiles or
                surcharge areas of gravel, concrete or bituminous. Once soil is exposed it is
                considered "exposed soil", until it meets the definition of "final stabilization".
                Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material is deposited,
FILL:           placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported, or moved to a new location
                and shall include the resulting conditions of that new location, if applicable.
                A vegetated section of land designed to treat runoff as overland sheet flow. Their
FILTER STRIPS:  dense vegetated cover facilitates pollutant removal and infiltration. The design of
                vegetated filter strips shall follow the criteria and guidance set forth in the MPCA
                Minnesota Stormwater Manual.
                All soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that a uniform
                perennial vegetative cover with a density of seventy percent (70%) of the native
                background vegetative cover for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent
FINAL           structures has been established, or equivalent permanent stabilization measures have
STABILIZATION:  been employed. Simply sowing grass seed is not considered final stabilization.
                (Examples of vegetative cover practices can be found in the current version of the
                Minnesota Department of Transportation's publication, "Supplemental Specifications
                to the Standard Specifications for Construction").
                The party who signs the construction contract with the owner or operator to
                construct the project described in the final plans and specifications. Where the
GENERAL         construction project involves more than one contractor, the general contractor could
CONTRACTOR:     be the party responsible for managing the project on behalf of the owner or
                operator. In some cases, the owner or operator may be the general contractor. In
                these cases, the owner may contract an individual as the operator who would become
                the co-permittee.
                A wide array of practices at multiple scales that manage wet weather and that
                maintains or restores natural hydrology by infiltrating, evapotranspiring, or
                harvesting and using stormwater. On a regional scale, green infrastructure is the
GREEN           preservation or restoration of natural landscape features, such as forests,
INFRASTRUCTURE: floodplains and wetlands, couples with policies such as infill and redevelopment
                that reduce overall imperviousness in a watershed. On a local scale, green
                infrastructure consists of site and neighborhood-specific practices, such as
                bioretention, trees, green roofs, and permeable pavements.
                Water contained below the surface of the earth in the saturated zone including,
GROUNDWATER:    without limitation, all waters whether under confined, unconfined, or perched
                conditions, in near surface unconsolidated sediment or regolith, or in rock
                formations deeper underground.
                Any material, including any substance, waste, or combination thereof, which because
HAZARDOUS       of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics
MATERIAL:       may cause, or significantly contribute to, a substantial present or potential hazard
                to human health, safety, property, or the environment when improperly treated,
                stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed.
HYDRIC SOILS:   Soils that are saturated, flooded, or ponded long enough during the growing season
                to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part.
HYDROPHYTIC     Macrophytic (large enough to be observed by the naked eye) plant life growing in
VEGETATION:     water, soil or on a substrate that is at least periodically deficient in oxygen as a
                result of excessive water content.
ILLEGAL         Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the storm drain system, except as
DISCHARGE:      exempted in this chapter.
                An illicit connection is defined as either of the following:
                   A.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows
                an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not limited to
                any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process
ILLICIT         wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and any connections to
CONNECTION:     the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether said
                drain or connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by a
                government agency.
                   B.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use
                to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or
                equivalent records and approved by the City.
                A constructed hard surface that either prevents or retards the entry of water into
IMPERVIOUS      the soil and causes water to run off the surface in greater quantities and at an
SURFACE:        increased rate of flow than existed prior to development. Examples include rooftops,
                sidewalks,
               patios, driveways, parking lots, storage areas, and concrete, asphalt, or gravel
                surfaces.
INDUSTRIAL      Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 CFR, section 122.26
ACTIVITY:       (b)(14).
                Any land change that may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement
LAND            of sediments into or upon waters or lands within this government's jurisdiction,
DISTURBANCE     including, but not limited to: development, redevelopment, demolition, construction,
ACTIVITY:       reconstruction, clearing and grubbing, grading, filling, stockpiling, excavation,
                and borrow pits.
LAND LOCKED     Defined as a low area such as a lake, pond, or wetland entirely surrounded by land
BASIN:          with no regularly active outlet channel.
                Construction or reconstruction of roads, trails, sidewalks, and rail lines that are
LINEAR PROJECT: not part of a common plan of development or sale. Mill, overlay, and other
                resurfacing projects are not considered to be reconstruction.
MPCA MINNESOTA  A guidebook authored and periodically updated by the Minnesota Pollution Control
STORMWATER      Agency which provides practical stormwater management practices that are reviewed
MANUAL:         and edited regularly.
                A conveyance or system of conveyances (including roads with drainage systems,
                municipal streets, catch basins, storm drains, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made
MUNICIPAL       channels, stormwater ponds, and sometimes waters of the State) that are:
SEPARATE STORM     A.   Owned or operated by a jurisdiction, public body, institution, or a
SEWER SYSTEMS   designated and approved management agency that discharges to surface waters of the
(MS4):          State.
                   B.   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater.
                   C.   Not a combined sewer.
                   D.   Not a part of a publicly owned treatment works.
NATIONAL        General, group, and individual permits which regulate facilities defined in Federal
POLLUTANT       NPDES regulations pursuant to the Clean Water Act. The Minnesota MPCA has adopted
DISCHARGE       general permits, including but not limited to the general construction activity,
ELIMINATION     general industrial activity, MS4 and wastewater permits. The program for issuing,
SYSTEM (NPDES)  modifying, revoking, reissuing, terminating, monitoring, and enforcing permits under
PERMIT:         the Clean Water Act (Sections 301, 318, 402, and 405) and United States Code of
                Federal Regulations Title 33, Sections 1317, 1328, 1342, and 1345.
NATIVE          The pre-settlement (already existing in Minnesota at the time of Statehood in 1858)
VEGETATION:     group of plant species native to the local region, that were not introduced as a
                result of European settlement or subsequent human introduction.
NON-STORMWATER  Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
DISCHARGE:
NORMAL WETTED   The area of a conveyance, such as a ditch, channel, or pipe that is in contact with
PERIMETER:      water during flow events that are expected to occur from a two-year 24-hour storm
                event.
                The person designated by the owner, who has day to day operational control and/or
OPERATOR:       the ability to modify project plans and specifications related to the SWPPP. The
                operator must be named on the permit as the Permittee.
                The boundary of public waters and wetlands and shall be an elevation delineating the
                highest water level which has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to
ORDINARY HIGH-  leave evidence upon the landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation
WATER MARK:     changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses,
                the ordinary high-water level is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
                channel. For reservoirs and flowages, the ordinary high-water level is the operating
                elevation of the normal summer pool.
                The person or party possessing the title of the land on which the construction
                activities will occur; or if the construction activity is for a lease, easement, or
OWNER:          mineral rights license holder, the party or individual identified as the lease,
                easement or mineral rights license holder; or the contracting government agency
                responsible for the construction activity.
                A constructed hard, smooth surface made of asphalt, concrete or other pavement
PAVED SURFACE:  material. Examples include, but are not limited to: roads, sidewalks, driveways and
                parking lots.
                Surface types that will prevent soil failure under erosive conditions. Examples
                include asphalt, concrete, rip rap, roof tops, perennial cover, or other landscaped
                material that will permanently arrest soil erosion. A uniform perennial vegetative
PERMANENT       cover (e.g., evenly distributed, without large bare areas) with a density of seventy
COVER:          percent (70%) of the native background vegetative cover for the area must be
                established on all unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures, or
                equivalent permanent stabilization measures. Permanent cover does not include the
                practices listed under temporary erosion protection. See FINAL STABILIZATION.
PERMIT:         Within the context of this chapter a "permit" is a written warrant or license
                granted for construction, zoning approval, or to allow land disturbing activities.
                A person or persons, firm, or governmental agency or other entity that signs the
PERMITTEE:      application submitted to the MPCA and is responsible for compliance with the terms
                and conditions of the construction permit.
                Clearing a parcel of land in distinct phases, with at least fifty percent (50%) of
PHASED PROJECT  the project's preceding phase meeting the definition of "final stabilization" and
OR DEVELOPMENT: the remainder proceeding toward completion, before beginning the next phase of
                clearing.
                Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but are
                not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other automotive fluids;
                non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage,
                litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, articles, and accumulations, so
POLLUTANT:      that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides,
                and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and
                pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that
                result from constructing a building or structure (including but not limited to
                sediments, slurries, and concrete rinsates); and noxious or offensive matter of any
                kind.
                Any substance which, when discharged has potential to or does any of the following:
                a) interferes with State designated water uses; b) obstructs or causes damage to
                waters of the State; c) changes water color, odor, or usability as a drinking water
                source through causes not attributable to natural stream processes affecting surface
                water or subsurface processes affecting groundwater; d) adds an unnatural surface
PROHIBITED      film on the water; e) adversely changes other chemical, biological, thermal, or
DISCHARGE:      physical condition, in any surface water or stream channel; f) degrades the quality
                of groundwater; or g) harms human life, aquatic life, or terrestrial plant and
                wildlife. This includes but is not limited to dredged soil, solid waste, incinerator
                residue, garbage, wastewater sludge, chemical waste, biological materials,
                radioactive materials, rock, sand, dust, industrial waste, sediment, nutrients,
                toxic substance, pesticide, herbicide, trace metal, automotive fluid, petroleum-
                based substance, and oxygen-demanding material.
PUBLIC WATERS:  All water basins and watercourses that are described in Minn. Stat. 103G.005 subd.
                15.
RECHARGE:       The replenishment of groundwater reserves.
                Any construction, alteration or improvement of one acre or greater in areas where
REDEVELOPMENT:  existing land use is already in a developed condition (i.e., any development that is
                not considered new development).
RETAIN:         Manage stormwater on site using a low-impact development approach so that the rate
                and volume of predevelopment stormwater reaching receiving waters is unchanged.
                The highest seasonal elevation in the soil that is in a reduced chemical state
SATURATED SOIL: because of soil voids being filled with water. Saturated soil is evidenced by the
                presence of redoximorphic features or other information.
                The product of an erosion process; solid material both mineral and organic, that is
SEDIMENT:       in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved by water, wind, or ice, and
                has come to rest on the earth's surface either above or below water level.
                The methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving the development site. Sediment
SEDIMENT        control practices include silt fences, sediment traps, earth dikes, drainage swales,
CONTROL:        check dams, subsurface drains, pipe slope drains, storm drain inlet protection, and
                temporary or permanent sedimentation basins.
SITE:           The bounded area defined in an SWPPP including individual parcels of the larger
                plan's defined area.
                Small construction activity as defined in 40 CFR part 122.26(b)(15). Small
                construction activities include clearing, grading and excavating that result in land
SMALL           disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre and less than five acres. Small
CONSTRUCTION    construction activity includes the disturbance of less than one (1) acre of total
ACTIVITY:       land area that is part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger
                common plan will ultimately disturb equal to or greater than one (1) and less than
                five (5) acres.
                The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate surface of the
SOIL:           earth. For the purposes of this chapter, stockpiles of gravel, aggregate, concrete,
                or bituminous materials are not considered "soil" stockpiles.
                The exposed ground surface after it has been covered mulch, staked sod, riprap,
                erosion control blanket, mats or other material that prevents erosion from
STABILIZED:     occurring. Grass, agricultural crop or other seeding alone is not stabilization.
                Mulch materials must achieve approximately ninety percent (90%) ground coverage
                (typically two (2) ton/acre). Simply sowing grass seed is not considered
                stabilization.
STANDARD        General drawings showing a common or repeated construction activity or practice.
PLATES:
STEEP SLOPE:    Any slope steeper than twelve percent (12%) (twelve feet (12') of rise for every one
                hundred feet (100') horizontal run).
STOP WORK       An order issued which requires that all construction activity not necessary to
ORDER:          correct the noncompliance on a site to cease immediately until compliance is
                achieved and approved by the City.
                The City-owned facilities by which stormwater is collected or conveyed, including,
STORM DRAIN     but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems, Municipal streets, gutters,
SYSTEM:         curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention
                basins, wet detention or sedimentation basins, natural and human-made or altered
                drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
STORMWATER:     Under Minn. R. 7077.0105, subp. 41(b) stormwater means precipitation runoff,
                stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff, and any other surface runoff and drainage.
                A joint stormwater, sediment, and erosion control planning document that when
STORMWATER      implemented will decrease soil erosion on a parcel of land and offsite non-point
MANAGEMENT      pollution. It involves both temporary and permanent BMPs. The plan details site
PLAN:           conditions, proposed grading and drainage patterns, and Best Management Practices
                designed to minimize soil erosion and control sediment.
                A SWPPP is a plan that describes the strategies and steps that will be taken to
STORMWATER      prevent nonpoint source pollution discharging from a construction site. It includes
POLLUTION       a plan for stormwater discharge that includes Best Management Practices consisting
PREVENTION PLAN of erosion prevention measures and sediment controls. The erosion prevention
(SWPPP):        measures contained in the plan shall consist of temporary and permanent measures to
                stabilize exposed soil.
STORMWATER      Physical improvements to the landscape or stormwater infrastructure intended to
TREATMENT       provide some combination of volume reduction, rate control, water quality benefits,
PRACTICES:      or thermal regulation of untreated runoff.
                Anything manufactured, constructed or erected which is normally attached to or
STRUCTURE:      positioned on land, including portable structures, earthen structures, roads,
                parking lots, and paved storage areas.
SUBDIVISION:    Any tract of land divided into building lots for private, public, commercial,
                industrial, etc., development.
                All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, wetlands, reservoirs, springs, rivers, drainage
SURFACE WATER   systems, waterways, watercourses, and irrigation systems whether natural or
(S):            artificial, public or private, except that surface waters do not include treatment
                basins or ponds that were constructed from upland.
TEMPORARY       Methods employed to temporarily prevent erosion during construction activities.
EROSION         Examples of temporary cover include straw, wood fiber blanket, wood chips, and
PROTECTION:     erosion netting.
VEGETATED OR    A vegetated earthen channel that conveys stormwater, while treating the stormwater
GRASSY SWALE:   by biofiltration. Such swales remove pollutants by both filtration and infiltration.
                Surface watercourses and water bodies as defined by the State of Minnesota (as
                defined in Minn. Stat. 115.01, subd. 22): all streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
WATERS OF THE   watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems,
STATE:          drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
                groundwater, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within,
                flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
                Depressions constructed by excavation and embankment procedures to store excess
WET DETENTION   runoff temporarily on site. Wet detention facilities maintain a permanent pool of
FACILITY:       water between storm events. Wet detention facilities are located to collect
                stormwater inflows from adjacent drainage areas and are usually designed to control
                peak discharges from relatively large design storms.
                Depressions constructed by excavation and embankment procedures to store excess
WET             runoff temporarily on a site. After a runoff event, overflow from the pond is
SEDIMENTATION   released at a controlled rate by an outlet device designed to release flows at
BASIN:          various peak rates and elevations until the design elevation of the pool is reached.
                Wet Sedimentation Basins are further designed with the goal of capturing and
                removing sediment from runoff through settling.
                As defined in Minn. R. 7050.0130, subp. F, "wetlands" are those areas that are
                inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration
                sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence
                of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands
                generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. Constructed wetlands
                designed for wastewater treatment are not waters of the State. Wetlands must have
WETLANDS:       the following attributes:
                   A.   A predominance of hydric soils.
                   B.   Inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and
                duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic vegetation typically
                adapted for life in a saturated soil condition.
                   C.   Under normal circumstances support a prevalence of such vegetation. (Ord.
                2017-012, 11-21-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-007, 4-18-2023)
 
8-5-4: LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITIES SUBJECT TO A STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN:
   A.   Applicability: Unless expressly exempted, a Stormwater Management Plan
(Stormwater Management Plan) shall be required for any land disturbance within
the City of Baxter that meets the following criteria:
      1.   Land disturbance activities involving greater than five thousand
(5,000) square feet and less than an acre, or otherwise required by the City
Engineer.
      2.   Involves excavation or filling, or a combination of excavation and
filling, in excess of fifty (50) cubic yards of material.
      3.   Involves the laying, repairing, replacing, or enlarging of an
underground utility, pipe or other facility, or the disturbance of road ditch,
grass swale or other open channel for a distance of three hundred feet (300')
or more.
      4.   Is a land disturbing activity, regardless of size, that the
community determines is likely to cause an adverse impact to an environmentally
sensitive area or other property, or may violate any other erosion and sediment
control standard set forth in this ordinance.
   B.   Exempt Land Disturbance Activities: The following activities do not
require a Stormwater Management Plan unless the City determines that there is a
high risk of soil erosion or water pollution, or that there may be a
significant impact on a lake, stream, river, or wetland area:
      1.   Minor land disturbance activities such as home gardens and an
individual's home landscaping, repairs, and maintenance work disturbing less
than one-half (1/2) acre.
      2.   Construction, installation, and maintenance of fences, signs, posts,
poles, and electric, telephone, cable television, utility lines or individual
service connections to these utilities, which result in creating under one-half
(1/2) acre of exposed soil.
      3.   Tilling, planting and harvesting of agricultural, horticultural, or
silvicultural (forestry) crops more than one hundred feet (100') from a public
water as defined in Minnesota Statutes 103G.005, subd. 15.
      4.   Emergency work to protect life, limb, or property and emergency
repairs, unless the land disturbing activity would have otherwise required an
approved erosion and sediment control plan, except for the emergency. If such a
plan would have been required, then the disturbed land area shall be shaped and
stabilized in accordance with the City's requirements as soon as possible.
      5.   Any construction activity that requires the NPDES Stormwater General
Construction Permit (i.e., sites over 1-acre of disturbance).
      6.   Construction of single-family home or duplex.
      7.   Site improvements involving the enlargement of a building less than
five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      8.   Land disturbance activities conducted by the City affecting less
than one (1) acre.
   C.   Stormwater Management Plan Requirements:
      1.   Delineation of the subject property, including all public and
private easements thereon; the location of existing and proposed buildings,
structures and impervious surfaces on the subject property, including
quantities of impervious surface for both pre- and post-construction/activity,
and the building bench elevations for all existing and proposed buildings.
      2.   Description of the construction or land disturbing activity to be
performed on subject property, including the area and volume of earth material
to be moved, and proposed project schedule.
      3.   Identification of all water bodies located on and within one hundred
feet (100') of the subject property's boundaries, including identification of
any off-site receiving waters for the site's runoff, including the structural
control elevation (SCE), high water level (HWL), and ordinary high-water level
(OHWL) elevations and if an existing water body is intended to be used for
water quality treatment, then identification of the dead storage volume and
area of the SCE.
      4.   Identification of all wetland buffers as set forth in the wetland
protection and management regulations in this Code.
      5.   Identification of existing and proposed subwatersheds/site drainage
areas, including any contributing runoff from off-site, and show drainage
patterns using arrows depicting direction of flow.
      6.   Topographical data, including existing (dashed) and proposed (solid)
contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet, except that contour
lines shall be no more than one hundred feet (100') apart.
      7.   Temporary benchmarks shall be established within the boundaries of
the project area. Descriptions, reference ties and elevations of the benchmarks
shall be furnished to the city. All horizontal coordinates, elevations,
topography and data shall be tied to NAD 83, 2011 adjusted Crow Wing County -
Baxter Localization Coordinates US Survey Feet and all vertical control data
shall be presented in NGVD 29 US Survey Feet.
      8.   The location and size of all existing and proposed sanitary sewer,
storm sewer, water supply, and other utility service facilities.
   D.   Inspections: The City will conduct inspections on a regular basis to
ensure that the plan is properly installed and maintained. In all cases the
inspectors will attempt to work with the builder or developer to maintain
proper erosion and sediment control at all sites. In cases where cooperation is
withheld, after a verbal and written warning, the City shall issue construction
stop work orders, until erosion and sediment control measures meet the
requirements of this chapter.
      Inspections are required as follows:
      1.   At the time of footing, framing and final inspections.
      2.   At the completion of the project before a Certificate of Occupancy
is issued.
      3.   Prior to the release of any financial securities, if applicable.
      4.   Random inspections during the course of the project to ensure
compliance with the SWPPP or Stormwater Management Plan.
      A qualified representative for the owner/operator is responsible for
inspecting the site for compliance on a weekly basis and after every storm
event greater than 0.5 inch in twenty-four (24) hours. A record of each
inspection must be made and kept available on site for review by City
inspectors. At all times the applicant shall be responsible for implementing
and maintaining the BMPs as provided in the approved SWPPP or Stormwater
Management Plan. (Ord. 2017-012, 11-21-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-007, 4-18-2023;
Ord. 2024-010, 4-16-2024)
8-5-5: LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITIES SUBJECT TO THE NPDES STORMWATER GENERAL
CONSTRUCTION PERMIT:
   A.   Applicability: Every owner, prior to engaging in any land disturbing
activity of one acre or greater, must complete a Stormwater Construction Plan
as well as a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) in accordance with
the general permit authorization to discharge stormwater associated with
construction activity under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System/State Disposal System Construction Stormwater General Permit Program (MN
R100001) (MPCA permit) and the City criteria outlined below. The SWPPP shall
identify Best Management Practices (BMPs) to be used to prevent stormwater
pollution. A SWPPP shall be submitted to the City of Baxter with a building
permit or grading permit and shall be required for any land disturbance within
the City of Baxter that meets the following criteria:
      1.   Any land development activity that may ultimately result in the
disturbance of one or more acres of land, including smaller individual sites
that are part of a common plan of development that may be constructed at
different times.
      2.   Land development activity involving greater than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet of land disturbance or fifty (50) cubic yards of earth
movement that discharges to an impaired or special water as described in
Appendix A of the NPDES/SDS Construction Stormwater General Permit.
      3.   A subdivision plat.
      4.   The construction of any new public or private road.
      5.   Any land development activity, regardless of size, that the
community determines is likely to cause an adverse impact to an environmentally
sensitive area or other property.
   B.   SWPPP Plan Requirements: The owner and contractor are required to apply
for and meet all the conditions of the Minnesota NPDES Construction Stormwater
Permit and develop a SWPPP. The SWPPP must, at a minimum, and to the extent
applicable, contain the items required by the Permit and shall include a fully
completed Application Checklist. The application information must also include
permanent treatment information showing the proposed project meets the Minimal
Impact Design Standards (MIDS) performance goals. Nevertheless, due to the
diversity of sites, each site will be individually evaluated and, where
additional information and/or BMPs are needed, they will be specified at the
discretion of the City. In addition to the requirements set forth in the
Construction Stormwater General Permit, the following criteria must be met.
   C.   Minimum Control Measures: Minimum control measures are required where
one acre or greater of bare soil is disturbed or exposed. Construction
operations must, at a minimum, comply with any applicable Federal or State
permit and stormwater management plan in addition to the following Best
Management Practices.
      1.   Permit: The owner and contractor are required to apply for and meet
the conditions of the Minnesota NPDES construction permit.
      2.   Site Erosion and Sediment Control Measures: Erosion and sediment
control measures must be properly installed by the applicant before
construction activity begins. Such measures may be adjusted during dry weather
to accommodate short-term activities, such as those that require the passage of
very large vehicles. As soon as this activity is finished or before rainfall,
the erosion and sediment control structures must be returned to the original
configuration.
      3.   Site Dewatering: Water pumped from the site shall be treated by
temporary sedimentation basins, grit chambers, sand filters, upflow chambers,
hydrocyclones, soil concentrators or other appropriate controls as deemed
necessary. Water may not be discharged in a manner that causes erosion,
sedimentation, or flooding on the site, on downstream properties, in the
receiving channels, or in any wetland.
      4.   Waste And Material Disposal: All waste and unused building materials
(including garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater, petroleum- based
products, paints, toxic materials, or other hazardous materials) shall be
properly disposed of off-site and shall not be allowed to be carried by runoff
into a receiving channel, storm sewer system, or wetland.
      5.   Tracking Management: Each site shall have roads, access drives and
parking areas of sufficient width, length and surfacing to minimize sediment
from being tracked onto public or private roadways. Any material deposited by
vehicles or other construction equipment onto a public or private road shall be
removed (not by flushing) before the end of each working day.
      6.   Water Quality Protection: The construction contractor, including the
general contractor and all subcontractors, shall be required to control oil and
fuel spills and chemical discharges to prevent such spills or discharges from
entering any watercourse, sump, sewer system, water body, or wetland.
      7.   Concrete Washout Area: All liquids and solid waste generated by
concrete washout operations must be contained in a leak-proof containment
facility or impermeable liner. A compacted clay liner that does not allow
washout liquids to enter groundwater is considered an impermeable liner. A sign
must be installed adjacent to each washout facility to inform concrete
equipment operators to utilize the proper facilities.
      8.   Storm Drain Protection: All storm drain inlets shall be protected
during construction with control measures as contained in the SWPPP. These
devices shall remain in place until final stabilization of the site. A regular
inspection and maintenance plan shall be developed and implemented to assure
these devices are operational at all times. Storm drain protection shall
conform to MnDOT Standard Plans for Inlet Protection. Any alternative measures
shall be approved by the City Engineer prior to utilization.
      9.   Soil Stockpiling: All exposed soil areas must be stabilized as soon
as possible to limit soil erosion, but in no case later than fourteen (14) days
after the construction activity in that portion of the site has temporarily or
permanently ceased. If the site is within one mile of a special or impaired
water, soil areas shall be stabilized within seven (7) days after the
construction activity in that portion of the site has temporarily or
permanently ceased. Temporary clean aggregate stockpiles, demolition concrete
stockpiles, sand stockpiles and the constructed base components of roads are
exempt from this requirement.
      10.   Channeled Runoff: Diversion of channeled runoff around disturbed
areas, if practical, or the protection of the channel.
      11.   Easements: If a stormwater management plan involves directing some
or all of the site's runoff, the applicant or his designated representative
shall obtain from adjacent property owners any necessary easements or other
property interests concerning the flowing of such water.
      12.   Impact On Erosion and Sediment: Schedule the site's activities to
lessen the impact on erosion and sediment creation, so as to minimize the
amount of exposed soil.
      13.   Parking On Bare Lots: Parking on all bare lots is allowed only with
City staff approval. During construction all traffic on and off site shall use
designated construction entrances and exits.
      14.   Roof Drain Leaders: All newly constructed and reconstructed
buildings must route roof drain leaders to pervious areas (not natural
wetlands) where the runoff can infiltrate. The discharge rate shall be
controlled so that no erosion occurs in the pervious areas.
      15.   Disturbed Areas Less Than One Acre: For disturbed areas less than
one acre, sedimentation basins are encouraged, but not required, unless
specifically required by City Engineer. The applicant shall install erosion and
sediment controls at locations directed by the City. Minimum requirements
include silt fences, rock check dams, or other equivalent control measures
along slopes. Silt fences are required along channel edges to reduce sediment
reaching the channel. Silt fences, rock check dams, etc., must be regularly
inspected and maintained. The City Engineer shall determine if a development or
redevelopment disturbing less than one acre must also supply a stormwater
management plan, including any related materials if applicable.
   D.   Minimum Protection for Natural Wetlands: Runoff must not be discharged
directly into wetlands without appropriate quality and quantity runoff control,
as required by this chapter, the MPCA and Minnesota Rules 7050.0186, and
7090.2. Minnesota water quality standards as established by law and rule shall
govern and be enforceable by the City.
   E.   Inspections: The City will conduct inspections on a regular basis to
ensure that the plan is properly installed and maintained. In all cases the
inspectors will attempt to work with the builder or developer to maintain
proper erosion and sediment control at all sites. In cases where cooperation is
withheld, after a verbal and written warning, the City shall issue construction
stop work orders, until erosion and sediment control measures meet the
requirements of this chapter. An inspection must follow before work can
commence. Inspections are required as follows:
      1.   At the time of footing, framing and final inspections.
      2.   At the completion of the project.
      3.   Prior to the release of any financial securities, if applicable.
      4.   Randomly during the course of the project to ensure compliance with
the SWPPP.
      A qualified representative for the owner/operator is responsible for
inspecting the site for compliance on a weekly basis and after every storm
event greater than 0.5 inch in twenty-four (24) hours. A record of each
inspection must be made and kept available on site for review by City
inspectors. At all times the applicant shall be responsible for implementing
and maintaining the BMPs as provided in the approved SWPPP. (Ord. 2023-007, 4-
18-2023)
8-5-6: STORMWATER DESIGN PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   All permanent stormwater management plans must be submitted to the City
Engineer prior to the start of construction activity. Designers are expected to
follow the requirements of this section to meet the volume control, water
quality, and water quantity requirements of the City of Baxter. Designs should
meet the stormwater design standards of this chapter and the City of Baxter
Stormwater Engineering Design Manual. Deviations from the recommended guidance
will require detailed written explanation with discretion given by the City.
Stormwater facilities included as part of the final design for a permanent
development shall be addressed in the design package submitted to the City and
shall meet the criteria for design and performance as outlined in the
Stormwater Design Manual.
   B.   Cold Climate Issue Needs Engineering: All developments that incorporate
either or both storage and rate control best management practices shall follow
both the City of Baxter Stormwater Engineering Design Manual and the MPCA
Minnesota Stormwater Manual sections related to cold climate impacts on runoff
management. A significant portion of the City of Baxter is developed in areas
with high groundwater tables where, historically, storm sewer pipes have taken
on ground water and frozen, thereby limiting or eliminating conveyance
capacity. During warm weather conditions during winter, the City has
experienced roadway flooding followed by freezing creating significant hazards.
Therefore, care must be taken to allow for a site's storage and rate control
under the assumption that best management practice outlet drainage capacity
will be fully inhibited. The proven method employed by Baxter in these
conditions is to include extra storage under the assumption that outlets are
incapacitated.
      Small, green infrastructure best management practices within the right-
of-way not part of a development or redevelopment permit may be exempt from
this standard subject to City staff review.
   C.   Site Design And MIDS Calculator (Or Similar):
      1.   Site Design Process:
         a.   Better Site Design: Whenever possible, new development projects
shall be designed using the Better Site Design Techniques of the current
version of the MPCA Minnesota Stormwater Manual. Better Site Design involves
techniques applied early in the design process to preserve natural areas,
reduce impervious cover, distribute runoff and use pervious areas to more
effectively treat stormwater runoff. Site design should address open space
protection, impervious cover minimization, and runoff distribution and
minimization, and runoff utilization through considerations such as:
            (1)   Open Space Protection And Restoration:
               (A)   Conservation of existing natural areas (upland and
wetland);
               (B)   Reforestation;
               (C)   Re-establishment of prairies;
               (D)   Restoration of wetlands;
               (E)   Establishment or protection of stream, shoreline and
wetland buffers;
               (F)   Re-establishment of native vegetation into the landscape.
            (2)   Reduction Of Impervious Cover:
               (A)   Reduce new impervious through redevelopment of existing
sites and use of existing roadways, trails etc.;
               (B)   Minimize street width, parking space size, driveway
length, sidewalk width;
               (C)   Reduce impervious surface footprint (e.g. two story
buildings, parking ramp).
            (3)   Distribution And Minimization Of Runoff:
               (A)   Utilize vegetated areas for stormwater treatment (e.g.
parking lot islands, vegetated areas along property boundaries, front and rear
yards, building landscaping)
               (B)   Direct impervious surface runoff to vegetated areas or to
designed treatment areas (roofs, parking, driveways drain to pervious areas,
not directly to storm sewer or other conveyances)
               (C)   Encourage infiltration and soil storage of runoff through
grass channels, soil compost amendment, vegetated swales, raingardens, etc.
               (D)   Plant vegetation that does not require irrigation beyond
natural rainfall and runoff from the site.
            (4)   Runoff Utilization:
               (A)   Capture and store runoff for use for irrigation in areas
where irrigation is necessary.
         b.   Stormwater Criteria: The following general criteria shall be
incorporated in site design for stormwater runoff to protect surface and ground
water and other natural resources by maintaining pre-development hydrological
conditions:
            (1)   Reduce impacts on water;
            (2)   Protect soils;
            (3)   Preserve vegetation;
            (4)   Decrease runoff volume;
            (5)   Decrease erosion and sedimentation;
            (6)   Decrease flow frequency, duration, and peak runoff rates;
            (7)   Increase infiltration (groundwater recharge);
            (8)   Maintain existing flow patterns;
            (9)   Reduce peak flows;
            (10)   Store stormwater runoff on-site;
            (11)   Avoid channel erosion.
         c.   Erosion And Sediment Control Criteria: The following general
criteria shall be incorporated in site design for erosion and sediment control:
            (1)   Minimize disturbance of natural soil cover and vegetation;
            (2)   Minimize, in area and duration, exposed soil and unstable
soil conditions;
            (3)   Protect receiving water bodies, wetlands and storm sewer
inlets;
            (4)   Protect adjacent properties from sediment deposition;
            (5)   Minimize off-site sediment transport on trucks and equipment;
            (6)   Minimize work in and adjacent to waterbodies and wetlands;
            (7)   Maintain stable slopes;
            (8)   Avoid steep slopes and the need for high cuts and fills;
            (9)   Minimize disturbance to the surrounding soils, root systems
and trunks of trees adjacent to site activity that are intended to be left
standing;
            (10)   Minimize the compaction of site soils.
      2.   Stormwater Treatment Prioritization: Stormwater facility functioning
will be chosen in the following order of preference and use the MIDS Design
Sequence Flowchart to assist in the preferred best management practice that is
feasible for any given site (The MIDS Design Sequence Flowchart can be found in
the MPCA Minnesota Stormwater Manual):
         a.   Infiltration;
         b.   Filtration;
         c.   Sedimentation;
         d.   Rate Control.
      3.   MIDS Calculator (Or Similar): Final site design and choice of
permanent stormwater volume reduction practices shall be based on outcomes of
the MIDS Calculator or other model that shows the performance goal can be met
and shall meet the performance goals in the following sections of this chapter
(subsection
8-5-6C4 Stormwater Volume Reduction and Water Quality Performance Goals and
subsection
8-5-6C5 Development Site Stormwater Standard for Rate Control).
      4.   Stormwater Volume Reduction And Water Quality Performance Goals:
      All stormwater designs must follow criteria within the City of Baxter
Stormwater Engineering Design Manual.
      Volume control measures are required on projects to meet the water
quality criteria of the City and to meet the requirements of the City of
Baxter's MS4 permit obligations. Except where conditions listed below are not
met, stormwater runoff abstraction via infiltration, evapotranspiration,
capture, and/or reuse of stormwater runoff is required to treat the water
quality volume of a 1.1-inch (or 1.1-inch minus the volume of stormwater
treated by another system on the site) of runoff from new impervious surfaces
created by the project when a development project creates new impervious
surfaces.
      Higher priority shall be given to BMPs that include volume reduction.
Secondary preference is to employ filtration techniques, followed by
sedimentation and rate control BMPs. For all ponds, water quality runoff must
be infiltrated within forty-eight (48) hours or less. To simplify the review
process, no runoff will be assumed from pervious surfaces from a 1.1-inch
rainfall event. Volume reduction techniques considered shall include
infiltration, reuse and rainwater harvesting, and canopy interception and
evapotranspiration and/or additional techniques included in the MIDS calculator
and the MPCA Minnesota Stormwater Manual.
      All flow from a 100-year rain event will be infiltrated in ponds designed
as infiltration ponds. For redevelopment projects, stormwater discharge volume
shall result in a net reduction from pre-project conditions.
      Infiltration systems must be prohibited when the system would be
constructed in the following areas:
         a.   That receive discharges from vehicle fueling and maintenance
areas, regardless of the amount of new and fully reconstructed impervious
surface;
         b.   Where high levels of contaminants in soil or groundwater may be
mobilized by the infiltrating stormwater. To make this determination, the
owners and/or operators of construction activity must complete the Agency's
site screening assessment checklist, which is available in the MPCA Minnesota
Stormwater Manual, or conduct their own assessment. The assessment must be
retained with the site plans;
         c.   Where soil infiltration rates are more than 8.3 inches per hour
unless soils are amended to slow the infiltration rate below 8.3 inches per
hour;
         d.   With less than three feet (3') of separation distance from the
bottom of the infiltration system to the elevation of the seasonally saturated
soils or the top of bedrock;
         e.   Of predominately Hydrologic Soil Group D (clay) soils;
         f.   In an Emergency Response Area (ERA) within a Drinking Water
Supply Management Area (DWSMA) as defined in Minn. R. 4720.5100, Subp. 13,
classified as high or very high vulnerability as defined by the Minnesota
Department of Health;
         g.   In an ERA within a DWSMA classified as moderate vulnerability
unless the permittee performs or approves a higher level of engineering review
sufficient to provide a functioning treatment system and to prevent adverse
impacts to groundwater;
         h.   Outside of an ERA within a DWSMA classified as high or very high
vulnerability unless the permittee performs or approves a higher level of
engineering review sufficient to provide a functioning treatment system and to
prevent adverse impacts to groundwater;
         i.   Within 1,000 feet up-gradient or 100 feet down gradient of active
karst features;
         j.   That receive stormwater runoff from these types of entities
regulated under NPDES for industrial stormwater: automobile salvage yards;
scrap recycling and waste recycling facilities; hazardous waste treatment,
storage, or disposal facilities; or air transportation facilities that conduct
deicing activities.
      If infiltration practices are prohibited or infeasible, a permanent water
quality pond or filtration basin shall be used to meet water quality and rate
control requirements as specified within the City of Baxter Stormwater
Engineering Design Manual. For wet sedimentation pond design, for new
development projects, stormwater discharge volume shall result in no net
increase from pre-project conditions.
      Any applicant for a permit resulting in site disturbance that creates a
net increase of new impervious surface or new developments and redevelopments
must meet all of the following stormwater performance goals:
         a.   New Development Volume Control: For new, nonlinear developments
that create new impervious surface on sites without restrictions, stormwater
runoff volumes will be controlled, and the post-construction runoff volume
shall be retained on site for 1.1 inches of runoff from all impervious surfaces
on the site.
         b.   Redevelopment Volume Control: Nonlinear redevelopment projects on
sites without restrictions shall capture and retain on site 1.1 inches of
runoff from the new and/or fully reconstructed impervious surfaces.
         c.   Linear Development Volume Control: Linear projects on sites
without restrictions that create and/or fully reconstructed impervious
surfaces, shall capture and retain the larger of the following:
            (1)   0.55 inches of runoff from the new and fully reconstructed
impervious surfaces on the site;
            (2)   1.1 inches of runoff from the net increase in impervious area
on the site:
            Mill and overlay and other resurfacing activities are not
considered fully reconstructed.
            Where the entire water quality volume cannot be treated within the
existing right-of-way, a reasonable attempt to obtain additional right-of-way,
easement, or other permission to treat the stormwater during the project
planning process must be made. Volume reduction practices must be considered
first. Volume reduction practices (e.g., infiltration or other) to retain the
water quality volume on-site must be considered first when designing the
permanent stormwater treatment system. The General Permit does not consider wet
sedimentation basins and filtration systems to be volume reduction practices.
If the General Permit prohibits infiltration other volume reduction practices,
a wet sedimentation basin, or filtration basin may be considered. Volume
reduction practices are not required if the practices cannot be provided cost
effectively. If additional right-of-way, easements, or other permission cannot
be obtained, owners of construction activity must maximize the treatment of the
water quality volume prior to discharge from the MS4.
         d.   Flexible treatment options for sites with volume reduction
restrictions (as found in the MIDS Design Sequence Flowchart).
      Applicant shall fully attempt to comply with the appropriate performance
goals described above in subsection C4 Stormwater Volume Reduction and Water
Quality Performance Goals. Options considered and presented shall examine the
merits of relocating project elements to address varying soil conditions and
other constraints across the site. If full compliance is not possible due to
any of the factors listed below, the applicant must document the reason. If
site constraints or restrictions limit the full treatment goal, the following
flexible treatment options shall be used:
      Applicant shall document the flexible treatment options sequence starting
with Alternative #1. If Alternative #1 cannot be met, then Alternative #2 shall
be analyzed. Applicants must document the specific reasons why Alternative #1
cannot be met. If Alternative #2 cannot be met, then Alternative #3 shall be
met. Applicants must document the specific reasons why Alternative #2 cannot be
met. When all of the conditions are fulfilled within an alternative, this
sequence is completed.
      Alternative #1: Applicant attempts to comply with the following
conditions:
            (1)   Achieve at least 0.55" volume reduction from all impervious
surfaces if the site is new development or from the new and/or fully
reconstructed impervious surfaces for a redevelopment site.
            (2)   Remove sixty percent (60%) of the annual TP load from all
impervious surfaces if the site is new development or from the new and/or fully
reconstructed impervious surfaces for a redevelopment site.
            (3)   Options considered and presented shall examine the merits of
relocating project elements to address, varying soil conditions and other
constraints across the site.
      Alternative #2: Applicant attempts to comply with the following
conditions:
            (1)   Achieve volume reduction to the maximum extent practicable.
            (2)   Remove sixty percent (60%) of the annual TP load from all
impervious surfaces if the site is new development or from the new and/or fully
reconstructed impervious surfaces for a redevelopment site.
            (3)   Options considered and presented shall examine the merits of
relocating project elements to address, varying soil conditions and other
constraints across the site.
      Alternative #3: Off-site Treatment. Mitigation equivalent to the
performance of 1.1 inches of volume reduction for new development or
redevelopment as described above in this section, (including banking or cash)
can be performed off-site to protect the receiving water body. Off-site
treatment shall be achieved in areas selected in the following order of
preference:
            (1)   Locations that yield benefits to the same receiving water
that receives runoff from the original construction activity.
            (2)   Locations within the same Department of Natural Resource
(DNR) catchment area (Hydrologic Unit 08) as the original construction
activity.
            (3)   Locations within the next adjacent DNR catchment area
upstream.
            (4)   Locations anywhere within the community's jurisdiction.
            Off-site treatment projects must involve the creation of new
structural stormwater BMPs or the retrofit of existing structural stormwater
BMPs, or the use of a properly designed regional structural stormwater BMP.
Routine maintenance of structural stormwater BMPs already required by the
General Permit cannot be used to meet this requirement.
            Off-site treatment projects must be completed no later than twenty
four (24) months after the start of the original construction activity. If the
permittee determines more time is needed to complete the treatment project, the
permittee must provide the reason(s) and schedule(s) for completing the project
in the annual report.
            If the permittee receives payment from the owner of a construction
activity for off-site treatment, the permittee must apply any such payment
received to a public stormwater project, and all projects must comply with the
requirements above.
      5.   Development Site Stormwater Standard For Rate Control: All
stormwater designs must follow criteria within the City of Baxter Stormwater
Engineering Design Manual.
      For all development sites (new development, redevelopment, and linear
development) the site design shall provide non-winter conditions on-site
treatment during construction and post-construction to ensure no increase in
off-site peak discharge for the 2-year, 24-hour storm event, the 10-year, 24-
hour storm event, and the 100-year, 24-hour storm event. To accommodate cold
climate conditions, (freeze up conditions) facilities shall be designed to
retain runoff from a 100-year critical duration rainfall event onsite without
overtopping above the normal pool elevation. This design standard assumes that
no outflow of the 100-year storage area (live storage) will be released from
the outlet. Therefore, no credit will be approved for water balance abstraction
of outlet flow in relation to retainment of the 100-year runoff and its total
volume must be stored.
      A reduction of the required onsite storage capacity may be granted under
the following circumstances:
         a.   The site or any portion of the site is included as part of a
larger City approved regional stormwater management plan.
         b.   The site is adjacent to a City-owned and maintained storm sewer
system that drains to a regional stormwater storage facility and the site (or
portion of) has been included as part of the contributing area for design of
the system.
         c.   The site contains topographic features that allow stormwater
storage outside of the designated stormwater storage facility without
inundating wetlands, causing adverse conditions or damage to adjacent
properties.
         d.   Other reasons as determined by the City Engineer.
      The designer shall confer with the City Engineer to determine how much,
if any, stormwater runoff from the site or any portion of the site has been
accounted for in a pre-existing regional stormwater management plan or publicly
maintained system.
      6.   Other Design Standards:
         a.   City Of Baxter Stormwater Engineering Design Manual: All volume
control for water quality and quantity and site design specifications shall
conform to the current version of the City of Baxter Stormwater Engineering
Design Manual.
         b.   Site Erosion And Sediment Control Requirements: All erosion and
sediment control requirements shall conform to the current requirements of
NPDES/SDS Construction Stormwater General Permit.
      7.   Limitations And Restrictions For Permanent Stormwater Management:
The City may limit or restrict the construction of permanent management
facilities based on the following criteria.
         a.   Permanent infiltration stormwater management facilities may not
receive discharges from or be constructed in areas where:
            (1)   Industrial facilities are not authorized to infiltrate
industrial stormwater under an NPDES industrial stormwater permit issued by the
MPCA.
            (2)   Vehicle fueling or maintenance activities occur.
            (3)   There is less than three feet (3') of separation between the
bottom of the infiltration system to the elevation of the seasonally saturated
soils or the top of bedrock.
            (4)   There are known groundwater contaminants or groundwater will
be mobilized by the construction of infiltration BMPs.
            (5)   In an Emergency Response Area (ERA) within a Drinking Water
Supply Management Area (DWSMA) as defined in Minn. R. 4720.5100, Subp. 13,
classified as high or very high vulnerability as defined by the Minnesota
Department of Health;
            (6)   In an ERA within a DWSMA classified as moderate vulnerability
unless the permittee performs or approves a higher level of engineering review
sufficient to provide a functioning treatment system and to prevent adverse
impacts to groundwater;
            (7)   Outside of an ERA within a DWSMA classified as high or very
high vulnerability unless the permittee performs or approves a higher level of
engineering review sufficient to provide a functioning treatment system and to
prevent adverse impacts to groundwater. (Ord. 2023-007, 4-18-2023)
8-5-7: APPLICATION REVIEW:
The City Engineer shall be responsible for reviewing the Stormwater Management
Plan and the SWPPP. The MPCA shall be responsible for reviewing the MPCA
Construction Stormwater Permit application. The following City of Baxter
permitting process is as follows:
   A.   Pre-Application Meeting: The City shall facilitate a pre-application
meeting with the applicant, community staff (or their authorized
representative), and staff of relevant partner agencies. The purpose of the
meeting is to understand the general parameters of the proposed project and to
convey the requirements are meeting the provisions of the ordinance.
   B.   Application Completeness Review: The City of Baxter shall make a
determination regarding the completeness of a permit application within twenty
(20) business days of the receipt of the application and notify the applicant
in writing if the application is not complete including the reasons the
application was deemed incomplete. All incomplete plans will be returned to the
applicant with a written explanation of the application's deficiencies. The
applicant will have the opportunity to correct the deficiencies and resubmit
the application.
   C.   Application Review: The applicant shall not commence any construction
activity subject to this ordinance until a permit has been authorized by the
City. A complete review of the permit application shall be done within twenty
(20) business days of the receipt of a complete permit application from the
applicant. The City will work with the necessary state, county, and local
agencies to complete the review. The City shall review all information in the
permit application including proposed stormwater practices, hydrologic models,
and design methodologies and certify compliance with this ordinance.
   D.   Permit Authorization: If the City determines that the application meets
the requirements of this ordinance, the City may issue approval authorizing the
project or activity. The approval shall be valid for one year. Approval will be
in written form from the City to the applicant
   E.   Permit Denial: If the City determines the application does not meet the
requirements of this ordinance the application must be denied. If the
application is denied, the applicant will be notified of the denial in writing
including reasons for the denial. Once denied, a new application must be
resubmitted for approval before any activity may begin. All zoning approvals,
grading, and building permits shall be suspended until the applicant has an
authorized permit. Approval or denial shall be mailed to the applicant within
fifteen (15) days of receipt of a complete application. The applicant may
appeal the adverse decision within ten (10) days of receiving written notice by
requesting in writing to City staff that the City Council reviews the decision.
City staff will then schedule a hearing on the appeal within twenty (20) days.
Notice of the public hearing need not be published in the official newspaper.
All decisions by the City Council shall be final.
   F.   Plan Information Requirements: The minimum information requirements of
the application shall be consistent with the erosion and sediment control
requirements in the most recent version of the NPDES/SDS Construction
Stormwater General Permit and shall include a fully completed Application
Checklist. The application information must also include permanent treatment
information showing the proposed project meets the MIDS performance goals.
   G.   Modification Of Permitted Plans: The applicant must amend an approved
Stormwater Management plan to include additional requirements such as
additional or modified BMPs designed to correct problems as follows:
      1.   There is a change in design, construction, operation, maintenance,
weather or seasonal conditions that has a significant effect on the discharge
of pollutants to surface water or groundwater.
      2.   Inspections or investigations by site operators, local, state or
federal officials indicate the plans are not effective in eliminating or
significantly minimizing the discharge of pollutants to surface water or
groundwater or that the discharges are causing water quality standard
exceedances.
      3.   The plan is not achieving the general objectives of minimizing
pollutants in stormwater discharges associated with construction activity.
      An approved Stormwater Management Plan may be modified on submission of a
written application for modification to the City, and only after written
approval by the City Engineer. In reviewing such an application, the City
Engineer may require additional information. No approval of any modification
will be given that is inconsistent with this chapter (
8-5-1 through
8-5-7).
      Modification of the MPCA construction stormwater permit shall be made
according to MPCA requirements. A copy of the amended SWPPP and application
shall be sent to the City for their permanent records. The amendment shall be
received by the City before the additional construction work is begun.
   H.   Permit Completion: The permit holder shall notify the City when a
project ceases and final stabilization is reached. When a State permit exists,
the State termination form will suffice. Before work under the permit is deemed
complete, the permittee must submit as-builts, a long-term maintenance plan and
information demonstrating that the stormwater facilities conform to design
specifications. Final permit approval conditions are as follows:
      1.   If a permanent stormwater treatment/volume retention facility was
required, the facilities must be inspected by Public Works staff and must be
determined to be in compliance with proposed specifications and all
requirements identified in City Code are met prior to final inspection and the
release of stormwater performance securities.
      2.   The permit holder must establish permanent vegetative coverage of
all impacted areas excluding paved areas or areas covered by permanent
structures.
      3.   Vegetative coverage must consist of a uniform perennial vegetation
with a density of seventy percent (70%) of the expected final growth.
      4.   All temporary pollution prevention devices must be removed, and any
remediation or restoration efforts must be completed prior to final inspection
and release of financial securities
   I.   Permit Conditions: The BMPs required by the Stormwater Management Plan
and/or contained in the approved SWPPP must be implemented prior to the start
of any land disturbing activity and shall be maintained in accordance with the
approved plan and the requirements of this chapter. Additional conditions may
be imposed by the City of Baxter.
   J.   Fee: A fee will be charged for the Stormwater Management Plan for the
issuance of the permit, and inspections. The fee will be as set forth in the
most current City adopted fee schedule.
   K.   Costs: The applicant shall be liable at all times for the costs
incurred, including costs and fines resulting from noncompliance with an
approved plan. (Ord. 2017-012, 11-21-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-007, 4-18-2023)
8-5-8: FINANCIAL SECURITY FOR PROJECTS SUBJECT TO A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:
   A.   Security Required: The City shall require financial securities from the
applicant in an amount sufficient to cover the entirety of the estimated costs
of permitted and remedial work based on the final design as established in a
set financial security schedule determined by the City. If the project is
proceeding under a development agreement with the City, the costs of any work
required in this chapter shall be added to the letter of credit or bond in an
amount pursuant to section
11-5-4 of this Code and then enforced pursuant to said section
11-5-4 of this Code.
   B.   Release: Financial securities shall not be released until all permitted
and remedial work is completed.
   C.   Use By City Of Baxter: Financial securities may be used by the City to
complete work not completed by the applicant.
   D.   Form Of Security: The form of the securities shall be one or a
combination of the following to be determined by the City:
      1.   Cash Deposit: The first [$xxx] of the financial security for erosion
and sediment control shall be by cash deposit to the City. The cash will be
held by City in a separate account.
         a.   Securing Deposit: Deposit, either with the City, a responsible
escrow agent, or trust company, at the option of the City, either:
         b.   Cash in U.S. currency.
         c.   Other forms and securities (e.g., disbursing agreement) as
approved by the City.
      An irrevocable letter of credit of the kind approved for securing
deposits of public money or other instruments of credit from one or more
financial institutions, subject to regulation by the state and federal
government wherein said financial institution pledges funds are on deposit and
guaranteed for payment.
   E.   City Of Baxter Indemnity: This security shall save the City free and
harmless from all suits or claims for damages resulting from the negligent
grading, removal, placement or storage of rock, sand, gravel, soil or other
like material within the community.
   F.   Maintaining The Financial Security: If at any time during the course of
the work the amount falls below fifty percent (50%) of the required deposit,
the applicant shall make another deposit in the amount necessary to restore the
cash deposit to the required amount. If the applicant does not bring the
financial security back up to the required amount within seven (7) days after
notification by the City that the amount has fallen below fifty percent (50%)
of the required amount the City may:
      1.   Withhold Inspections: Withhold the scheduling of inspections and/or
the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
      2.   Revoke Permits: Revoke any permit issued by the City to the
applicant for the site in question or any other of the applicant's sites within
the community's jurisdiction.
   G.   Action Against The Financial Security: The City may access financial
security for remediation actions if any of the conditions listed below exist.
The City shall use the security to finance remedial work undertaken by the
City, or a private contractor under contract to the City, to reimburse the City
for all direct costs incurred in the process of remedial work including, but
not limited to, staff time and attorney's fees.
      1.   Abandonment: The applicant ceases land disturbing activities and/or
filling and abandons the work site prior to completion of the grading plan.
      2.   Failure To Implement The SWPPP Or Stormwater Management Plan: The
applicant fails to conform to the grading plan and/or the SWPPP as approved by
the City.
      3.   Failure To Perform: The techniques utilized under the SWPPP fail
within one year of installation.
      4.   Failure To Reimburse City Of Baxter: The applicant fails to
reimburse the City of corrective action taken.
   H.   Proportional Reduction Of The Financial Security: When more than one-
third of the applicant's maximum exposed soil area achieves final
stabilization, the community can reduce the total required amount of the
financial security by one-third. When more than two-thirds of the applicant's
maximum exposed soil area achieves final stabilization, the City of Baxter can
reduce the total required amount of the financial security to two-thirds of the
initial amount. This reduction in financial security will be determined by the
City.
   I.   Returning The Financial Security: The security deposited with the City
for faithful performance of the SWPPP or the Storm Water Management Plan and
any related remedial work shall be released one full year after the completion
of the installation of all stormwater pollution control measures as shown on
the SWPPP or Storm Water Management Plan.
   J.   Emergency Action: If circumstances exist such that noncompliance with
this chapter poses an immediate danger to the public health, safety and
welfare, as determined by the City, the City may take emergency preventative
action. The City shall also take every reasonable action possible to contact
and direct the applicant to take any necessary action. Any cost to the City may
be recovered from the applicant's financial security. (Ord. 2017-012, 11-21-
2017; amd. Ord. 2023-007, 4-18-2023)
8-5-9: STORMWATER FACILITIES INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT AND PERMIT
TRANSFER:
   A.   Private Stormwater Facilities:
      1.   Maintenance Plan Required: No private stormwater facilities may be
approved unless a maintenance plan is provided that defines who will conduct
the maintenance, the type of maintenance and the maintenance intervals. At a
minimum, all private stormwater facilities shall be inspected annually and
maintained in proper condition consistent with the performance goals for which
they were originally designed.
      2.   Facility Access: Access to all stormwater facilities must be
inspected annually and maintained as necessary. The applicant shall obtain all
necessary easements or other property interests to allow access to the
facilities for inspection or maintenance for both the responsible party and the
community.
      3.   Removal Of Settled Materials: All settled materials including
settled solids, shall be removed from ponds, sumps, grit chambers, and other
devices, and disposed of properly.
      4.   Inspections: All stormwater facilities within the City of Baxter
shall be inspected by the owner during construction, during the first year of
operation, and at least once every five years thereafter.
   B.   Public Stormwater Facilities:
      1.   Acceptance Of Publicly Owned Facilities: Before work under the
permit is deemed complete; the permittee must submit as-builts and a
maintenance plan demonstrating at the time of final stabilization that the
stormwater facilities conform to design specifications. A final inspection
shall be required before the City accepts ownership of the stormwater
facilities.
      2.   Inventory Of Stormwater Facilities: Upon adoption of this ordinance,
the City shall inventory and maintain a database for all private and public
stormwater facilities within the City requiring maintenance to assure
compliance with this ordinance. The City shall notify owners of public and
private stormwater facilities of the need for conducting maintenance on an
appropriate schedule based on the stormwater management practice.
      3.   Maintenance: The City shall perform maintenance of publicly owned
stormwater facilities in accordance with their comprehensive stormwater
management plan and other regulatory requirements.
   C.   Stormwater Facilities Maintenance Agreement: A Stormwater Facilities
Maintenance Agreement regarding stormwater management shall be required for any
project that requires a permanent stormwater management facility. The agreement
shall guarantee the performance of the work described and delineated on the
approved plan. In addition, the agreement will describe the City's inspection
policy. Should the applicant fail to meet any of the terms of the Stormwater
Facilities Maintenance Agreement, the City may proceed with the actions listed
in the enforcement section of this ordinance. Existing properties will be
required to enter into a Stormwater Facilities Maintenance Agreement under the
following circumstances:
      1.   At time of zoning approval from the City of Baxter.
      2.   When improving existing stormwater management facilities.
   D.   Notice To Transferee: When ownership, possession, or control of any
site subject to an incomplete, approved SWPPP is transferred, the former owner
(seller) shall notify the new owner (buyer) as to the current status of
compliance and provide a copy of the approved SWPPP, as required by the MPCA
construction permit. A copy of this notice shall be submitted to the City. A
copy of the 'Modification/Transfer', 'Subdivision Registration', or 'Homeowner
Transfer' forms required by the MPCA for transfers under the State required
SWPPP plan shall suffice for this notice to the City of Baxter.
   E.   Successor Liability:
      1.   The successor in interest to any portion of a site subject to an
incomplete, approved Stormwater Management Plan or SWPPP shall be responsible
for implementing the BMPs contained in the plan.
      2.   The successor shall be responsible for the implementation of this
plan for the portion of the site transferred.
      3.   The successor will be subject to all regulations under this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-012, 11-21-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-007, 4-18-2023; Ord. 2024-010, 4-16-
2024)
8-5-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violations: If an owner is in violation of the terms and conditions of
an approved plan, SWPPP, and/or this chapter, all City approvals relating to
the site shall be either withheld or suspended until the owner or contractor is
again compliant. All directives, notices, and orders may be served by the City
Engineer, the building official, and/or their designated staff person. Upon the
issuance of directive, notice, or order, the owner or contractor shall
immediately:
      1.   Develop a cleanup and restoration plan,
      2.   Obtain any necessary right-of-entry from any adjoining property
owner,
      3.   Implement the cleanup and restoration plan within forty-eight (48)
hours of any one directive, notice, order, or of obtaining the adjoining
property owner's permission.
   B.   Notification Of Failure Of The Permit: The City shall notify the permit
holder of the failure of the permit's measures.
      1.   Initial Contact: The initial contact will be to the party or parties
listed on the application and/or the SWPPP as contacts. Except during an
emergency action, forty-eight (48) hours after notification by the City or
seventy-two (72) hours after the failure of erosion and sediment control
measures, whichever is less, the community at its discretion, may begin
corrective work. Such notification should be in writing, but if it is verbal, a
written notification should follow as quickly as practical. If after making a
good faith effort to notify the responsible party or parties, the City has been
unable to establish contact, the City may proceed with corrective work. There
are conditions when time is of the essence in controlling erosion. During such
a condition the City may take immediate action, and then notify the applicant
as soon as possible.
      2.   Erosion Off-Site: If erosion breaches the perimeter of the site, the
applicant shall immediately develop a cleanup and restoration plan, obtain the
right-of-entry from the adjoining property owner, and implement the cleanup and
restoration plan within forty-eight (48) hours of obtaining the adjoining
property owner's permission. In no case, unless written approval is received
from the City of Baxter, may more than seven (7) calendar days go by without
corrective action being taken. If in the discretion of the City, the permit
holder does not repair the damage caused by the erosion, the City may do the
remedial work required. When restoration to wetlands and other resources are
required, the applicant should be required to work with the appropriate agency
to ensure that the work is done properly.
      3.   Erosion Into Streets, Wetlands Or Water Bodies: If eroded soils
(including tracked soils from construction activities) enter or appear likely
to enter streets, wetlands, or other water bodies, cleanup and repair shall be
immediate. The applicant shall provide all traffic control and flagging
required to protect the traveling public during the cleanup operations.
   C.   Failure To Do Corrective Work: In no case, unless written approval is
received from the City, shall more than seven (7) calendar days go by without
corrective action being taken. If in the discretion of the City, the applicant
does not repair the damage caused by the erosion, the City may do the remedial
work required and charge or assess the cost to the applicant. When restoration
to wetlands and other resources are required, the applicant shall be required
to work with the appropriate agency to ensure that the work is done properly.
If eroded soils (including tracked soils from construction activities) enter
streets, wetlands, or other water bodies, cleanup and repair shall be
immediate. The applicant shall provide all traffic control and flagging
required to protect the traveling public during the cleanup operations.
      When an applicant fails to conform to any provision of this chapter
within the time stipulated, the City Engineer may issue the following orders:
      1.   Issue a violation notice.
      2.   Withhold the scheduling of inspections and/or the issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy.
      3.   Permit Revocation: Revoke any permit issued by the City to the
applicant for the site in question or any other of the applicant's sites within
the City's jurisdiction.
      4.   Direct the correction of the violation by City forces or by a
separate contract. All costs incurred by the City in correcting violations must
be reimbursed by the applicant.
         a.   If payment is not made within thirty (30) days after costs are
incurred by the City, payment will be made from any financial securities placed
within the City pursuant to this chapter. The owner shall waive all rights by
virtue of Minnesota Statutes 429.081 to challenge the amount of validity of
assessment.
         b.   If there is an insufficient financial amount in the applicant's
security to cover the costs incurred by the City, the City may assess the
remaining amount against the property in accordance with Minnesota Statutes
429.061.
   D.   Stop Work Order: Issue a stop work order, withhold the scheduling of
inspections, and/or the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy. Whenever the
City finds any noncompliance with the provisions of the approved Stormwater
Management Plan, SWPPP, and/or this ordinance or any City ordinance, the City
shall attempt to communicate with the owner or person performing the work to
obtain immediate and voluntary compliance if such person is readily available.
If the owner or person performing the work is not readily available, that
person refuses to voluntarily comply immediately, or the noncompliance presents
an imminent damage, or will cause or threatens to cause bodily injury or damage
to off-site property, including, but not limited to off-site run-off, the
      City shall post in a conspicuous place on the premises a stop work order
which shall cause all activity not necessary to correct the noncompliance to
cease until compliance is corrected.
      1.   Contents: The stop work order shall contain the following
information:
         a.   Date of issuance.
         b.   Sufficient information to identify the property.
         c.   Violation(s).
      2.   Unauthorized Removal Of Posted Notice: Any unauthorized removal of a
posted stop work order shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
      3.   Additional Notice: In addition to posting a stop work order, the
City shall provide notification to the applicant by personal service, written
notice by certified mail, or facsimile transmission. (Ord. 2017-012, 11-21-
2017; amd. Ord. 2023-007, 4-18-2023)
8-5-11: RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION:
   A.   By submitting a Stormwater Management Plan application to the City, the
applicant hereby consents and authorizes the City and their authorized
representatives, upon presentation of credentials to:
      1.   Enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of obtaining
information, examination of records, and conducting investigations or surveys.
      2.   Bring such equipment upon the permitted development as is necessary
to conduct such surveys and investigations.
      3.   Examine and copy any books, papers, records, or memoranda pertaining
to activities or records required to be kept under the terms and conditions of
this chapter.
      4.   Inspect the stormwater pollution control measures and BMPs. (Ord.
2017-012, 11-21-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-007, 4-18-2023)
8-5-12: ILLICIT DISCHARGE PROHIBITION:
   A.   Applicability: This section shall apply to all water and general
pollution entering the City of Baxter's storm drain system generated on any
developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by the City.
      1.   Ultimate Responsibility Of Polluter: The standards set forth herein
and promulgated pursuant to this section are minimum standards; therefore this
section does not intend nor imply that compliance by any person will ensure
that there will be no contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of
pollutants into waters of the State caused by said person. This section shall
not create liability on the part of the City, or any agent or employee thereof
for any damages that result from any polluter's reliance on this section or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   B.   Discharge Prohibitions:
      1.   Prohibition Of Illegal Discharges: No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged into the Municipal storm drain system or watercourses
any materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater.
      No person shall throw, deposit, place, leave, maintain, or keep or permit
to be thrown, placed, left, maintained or kept, any refuse, rubbish, garbage,
or any other discarded or abandoned objects, articles, or accumulations, in or
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, storm drain, inlet, catch basin conduit or
drainage structure, business place, or upon any public or private plot of land
in Baxter, so that the same might be or become a pollutant, except in
containers, recycling bags, or other lawfully established waste disposal
facility.
      No owner or custodian of any animal shall cause or allow such animal to
soil, defile or defecate on any public property or upon any street, sidewalk,
public way, play area or common grounds owned jointly by the members of a
homeowners' or condominium association, or upon private property other than
that of the owner, unless such owner immediately removes and disposes of all
feces deposited by such animal in a sanitary manner.
      It is unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring an animal to
cause or permit said animal to be on any public property without having in his/
her immediate possession a device for the removal of feces and depository for
the transmission of excrement to a proper receptacle located on the property
owned or possessed by such person.
      It is unlawful for any person in control of, causing or permitting any
animal to be on any public property to fail to remove feces left by such animal
and dispose of it properly.
      Proper disposal of animal waste shall be limited to burial where lawfully
permitted, bagging for disposal in the owner or keeper's waste receptacle, and
bagging for disposal in a waste receptacle in a public park or park area.
      Disposal of animal waste in storm drains is prohibited. Disposal of
animal waste in public compost is prohibited.
      The provisions of this section shall not apply to the ownership or use of
any properly identified service animals, animals when used for police
activities, or tracking animals when used by or with the permission of the
appropriate authorities.
      Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any duly authorized
assistant should be responsible for issuing the citations.
      All commercial, institutional, and non-NPDES permitted industrial
facilities must meet the following salt storage requirements:
      •   Designated salt storage areas must be covered or indoors.
      •   Designated salt storage areas must be located on an impervious
surface.
      •   Implement practices to reduce exposure when transferring material in
designated salt storage areas (e.g., sweeping, diversions, and/or containment).
      No person shall intentionally dispose of grass clippings, leaves, dirt,
or other landscape debris into a water resource buffer, street, road, alley,
catch basin, culvert, curb, gutter, inlet, ditch, natural watercourse, flood
control channel, canal, storm drain or any fabricated natural conveyance.
      2.   Exemptions: The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal
discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as
follows:
         a.   Discharges from the following activities will not be considered a
violation of this section, an illegal discharge, or a source of pollutants to
the storm drain system and to waters of the State when properly managed:
potable water line flushing; uncontaminated pumped groundwater and other
discharges from potable water sources; landscape irrigation and lawn watering;
diverted stream flows; rising groundwater; uncontaminated groundwater
infiltration to the storm drain system; uncontaminated foundation and footing
drains; uncontaminated water from crawl space pumps; air conditioning
condensation; uncontaminated non-industrial roof drains; springs; individual
residential and occasional non-commercial car washing; flows from riparian
habitats and wetlands; dechlorinated swimming pool discharges; street wash
waters; flows from firefighting; and any other water source not containing
pollutants.
         b.   Discharges specified in writing by the City of Baxter as being
necessary to protect public health and safety.
         c.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test.
         d.   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the MPCA or EPA, provided
that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit,
waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that
written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
         e.   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity
NPDES stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such
permit.
      3.   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections:
         a.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
         b.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
         c.   A person is considered to be in violation of this ordinance if
the person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a
connection to continue.
   C.   Requirement To Prevent, Control And Reduce Stormwater Pollutants:
      1.   Authorization To Adopt And Impose BMPs:
         a.   Any person engaged in activities or operations or owning
facilities or property which will or may result in pollutants entering
stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the State shall implement BMPs
to the extent they are technologically achievable to prevent and reduce such
pollutants. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment
shall provide reasonable protection from accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other wastes into the Municipal storm drain system or
watercourses. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other wastes shall be provided and maintained at the owner or
operator's expense.
         b.   Further, any person responsible for a property or premises, which
is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to
implement, at said person's expense, additional structural and non-structural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with
all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of
stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the maximum extent
practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this section.
         c.   The City of Baxter may adopt requirements identifying BMPs for
any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution
or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the State
as a separate BMP Guidance Policy as such information is found to be needed by
the City. Where BMP requirements are required by the City or any Federal, State
of MN, or regional agency for any activity, operation, or facility which would
otherwise cause the discharge of pollutants to the storm drain system or water
of the State, every person undertaking such activity or operation, or owning or
operating such facility shall comply with such requirements.
      2.   Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The
City may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when
such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the State. If
the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency,
the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the State of MN, or to
minimize danger to persons.
      3.   Suspension Due to The Detection Of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
City will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The
violator may petition the City of Baxter for a reconsideration and hearing. A
person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises
terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the City.
      4.   Watercourse Protection: Every person owning property through which a
watercourse passes, or such person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part
of the watercourse within the property reasonably free of trash, debris,
excessive vegetation, and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or
significantly retard the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition,
the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately owned structures within
or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard
to the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse. The owner or
lessee shall not remove healthy bank vegetation beyond that actually necessary
for maintenance, nor remove said vegetation in such a manner as to increase the
vulnerability of the watercourse to erosion. The property owner shall be
responsible for maintaining and stabilizing that portion of the watercourse
that is within their property lines in order to protect against erosion and
degradation of the watercourse originating or contributed from their property.
      5.   Notification Of Spills: Notwithstanding other requirements of law,
as soon as any person responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible
for emergency response for a facility or operation has information of any known
or suspected release of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal
discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system,
or water of the State from said facility, said person shall take all necessary
steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the
event of such a release of a hazardous material said person shall immediately
notify emergency response officials of the occurrence via emergency dispatch
services (911). In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said
person shall notify the City Public Works Department in person or by phone no
later than four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. of the next business day.
Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the City's Public Works Department within three (3)
business days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials
emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator
of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the
discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall
be retained for at least three (3) years.
   D.   Inspection And Monitoring:
      1.   Authority To Inspect:
         a.   The City of Baxter shall be permitted to enter and inspect
facilities subject to regulation under this section and according to section
8-5-1 of this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with
this chapter. If a facility has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the facility shall
make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the City.
         b.   Facility operators shall allow the City ready access to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by City of Baxter, State of MN and Federal law.
         c.   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any provision
of this section, or whenever the City Engineer has cause to believe that there
exists, or potentially exists, in or upon any premises any condition which
constitutes a violation of this section, the City Engineer or designated staff
person may enter such premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same and
to inspect and copy records related to stormwater compliance. In the event the
owner or occupant refuses entry after a request to enter and inspect has been
made, the City is hereby empowered to seek assistance from any court of
competent jurisdiction in obtaining such entry.
      2.   Authority To Sample, Establish Sampling Devices And Test:
         a.   The City shall have the right to set up on any permitted or
discharging facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the City
to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
         b.   The City has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
         c.   During any inspection as provided herein, the City Engineer or
designated staff person may take any samples and perform any testing deemed
necessary to aid in the pursuit of the inquiry or to record site activities.
(Ord. 2017-012, 11-21-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-007, 4-18-2023)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Adoption
9-1-2: Application, Administration And Enforcement
9-1-3: Permits And Fees
9-1-4: Violations And Penalties
9-1-5: Elevation
9-1-1: ADOPTION:
The Minnesota state building code, as adopted by the commissioner of labor and
industry pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapters 16B.59 to 16B.75, including
all of the amendments, rules and regulations established, adopted and published
from time to time by the Minnesota commissioner of labor and industry, through
the building codes and standards unit, is hereby adopted by reference with the
exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this
section. The Minnesota state building code is hereby incorporated in this
section as if fully set out herein. (Ord. 2007-13, 5-16-2007)
9-1-2: APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The application, administration, and enforcement of the code shall be in
accordance with the Minnesota state building code. The code shall be enforced
within the extraterritorial limits permitted by Minnesota statutes 16B.62,
subdivision 1, when so established by this section.
The code enforcement agency of this municipality is called the office of city
building official. This code shall be enforced by the Minnesota certified
building official designated by this municipality to administer the code 1 .
(Ord. 2007-13, 5-16-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA § 16B.65, subdivision 1.
9-1-3: PERMITS AND FEES:
The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as authorized in
Minnesota statutes 16B.62, subdivision 1. Permit fees shall be assessed for
work governed by this code in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the
municipality in section
1-10-2 of this code. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all
permits issued for work governed by this code in accordance with Minnesota
statutes 16B.70. (Ord. 2007-13, 5-16-2007)
9-1-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
A violation of this code is a misdemeanor 1 . (Ord. 2007-13, 5-16-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA § 16B.69.
9-1-5: ELEVATION:
   A.   Intent: The intent of this section is to minimize the risk of flood or
water damage to structures within the city. As a result, no structure shall be
built within a wetland, shall have a three foot (3') vertical separation from
periodically saturated soils and shall have a three foot (3') vertical
separation from the 100-year storm elevation (if known). For riparian lots, all
dwellings shall have a three foot (3') vertical separation from the ordinary
high water mark. In addition, no structure shall be built within a "floodway",
"flood fringe" or general floodplain district as defined and enforced in title
12 of this code.
   B.   Definitions: All terms used herein shall be as defined in title 10 of
this code or Minnesota rules section 7080 unless specifically defined below:
    100-YEAR STORM WATER ELEVATION: The water surface elevation determined in a
100-year, twenty four (24) hour storm water analysis.
   PERIODICALLY SATURATED SOIL: The highest elevation in the soil that is in a
reduced chemical state due to soil pores filled or nearly filled with water
causing anaerobic conditions. Periodically saturated soil is determined by the
presence of redoximorphic features in conjunction with other established
indicators as specified in part 7080.1720, subpart 5, items E and F, or
determined by other scientifically established technical methods or empirical
field measurements acceptable to the permitting authority in consultation with
the commissioner.
   VERTICAL SEPARATION: The vertical measurement of the periodically saturated
soil, the 100-year storm water elevation or the ordinary high water mark and
the bottom of the lowest floor of proposed structure to be constructed.
   C.   Enforcement: To ensure compliance with these requirements, no building
permit for new construction or remodeling jobs that increase the footprint of a
building shall be issued until the city building official is satisfied, in its
sole discretion, that the structure meets all of the above requirements. To
confirm these requirements, the city building official may require any or all
of the following based upon the location and nature of the construction site:
      1.   Soil borings or a soil pit of the soil.
      2.   A certified wetland delineation as shown on a certificate of survey
from a Minnesota licensed surveyor.
      3.   Ordinary high water mark as shown on a certificate of survey from a
Minnesota licensed surveyor.
      4.   100-year storm water elevation as determined in writing by a
Minnesota licensed engineer after proper design and construction of said
stormwater design.
   D.   Exception/Cup Required: An applicant may construct a nondwelling
structure (which is not attached to a dwelling or is, in the sole determination
of the city building official, sufficiently separated from a dwelling) as low
as one foot (1') above the 100-year storm water elevation as long as they apply
and receive a conditional use permit from the city. In considering said
conditional use permit, the city shall review the effect of this lower
elevation, if any, upon adjacent owners and any dwellings located or to be
located on the subject site. Conditions shall require the applicant to design
the structure to ensure that any flooding or excess water shall not overflow
into adjacent properties or the city water or sewer utility systems. Conditions
may also require other mitigation measures to control or eliminate mold, damage
to materials or other health/safety reasons. (Ord. 2008-13, 11-18-2008)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Code Adopted
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: Fire Prevention Bureau
9-2-4: Permits; Fees
9-2-5: Storage Of Explosives, Blasting Agents, And Fireworks
9-2-6: Appeals
9-2-7: Penalty
9-2-1: CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: An ordinance adopting by reference the current Minnesota
state fire code and its amendments, to provide for its administration and
enforcement, to provide for the issuance of permits and collection of fees and
repealing all other ordinances and parts of ordinances of the city of Baxter in
conflict herewith.
The Minnesota state fire code, including appendix chapters B, C, D, and H, one
copy of which has been marked as the official copy and which is on file in the
office of the city clerk is hereby adopted as the fire code for the city of
Baxter, Minnesota, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from the fire or explosion, except
such portions as are modified or amended by this chapter and made a part of
this chapter as if fully set forth herein.
 
Appendix B Fire-flow requirements for buildings
Appendix C Fire hydrant locations and distribution
Appendix D Fire apparatus access roads
Appendix H Open flame and fuel storage prohibited on balconies or patios of
           multi-family dwellings (3 or more)
 
   B.   Amendments: The following amendments to the Minnesota state fire code
are hereby adopted as fully as if set out at length herein:
Section 105.6 of the Minnesota state fire code is amended by adding the
following: "but not limited to those listed."
Section 105.7 of the Minnesota state fire code is amended by adding the
following: "but not limited to those listed."
Section 307.4.2 of the Minnesota state fire code shall be amended to read:
"All open burning within this jurisdiction is allowed only in conformance with
title 4, chapter 3 of the city code, Open Burning."
(Ord. 2013-14, 11-19-2013)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words are used in the fire code, they shall be held to
mean:
AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION (AHJ): The building official for the city of
Baxter or designee.
BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION: The city of Baxter building department.
CODE OFFICIAL: The building official for the city of Baxter or designee.
JURISDICTION: City of Baxter. (Ord. 2013-14, 11-19-2013)
9-2-3: FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU:
   A.   The Minnesota state fire code and any applicable state statutes or
other local codes pertaining to fire and life safety shall be enforced by the
city of Baxter building official or designee. (Ord. 2013-14, 11-19-2013)
9-2-4: PERMITS; FEES:
   A.   Permits: Permits for activities regulated pursuant to this chapter
shall be issued by the city. The contracted fire department, through its fire
chief or designee, may review plans when necessary.
   B.   Fees: Fees for such permits shall be adopted and set by ordinance of
the city council, and are subject to change. It is the responsibility of the
building official or designee to file necessary reports with the state. The
city shall maintain records of all permits and plans. (Ord. 2013-14, 11-19-
2013)
9-2-5: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES, BLASTING AGENTS, AND FIREWORKS:
The limits referred to in chapter 33 of the international fire code in which
the storage of explosives, blasting agents, and fireworks are prohibited are
hereby established as within the boundaries of the city, except under special
permit by the building department. (Ord. 2013-14, 11-19-2013)
9-2-6: APPEALS:
Whenever the building official or designee shall disapprove any application or
refuse to grant a permit properly applied for or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the code do not apply, or that it has been misconstrued or
wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal the decision of the building
official or designee to the city council or designee within thirty (30) days
from the date of the building official or designee's decision. (Ord. 2013-14,
11-19-2013)
9-2-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the
code or standards hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall
violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from
which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order
shall separately for each and every violation and noncompliance, respectively,
be guilty of a misdemeanor. The imposition of one penalty for any violation
shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons
shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a
reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each five (5) days that the
prohibited conditions remain shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Prohibited Conditions: The application of the above penalty shall not
be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 2013-
14, 11-19-2013)
CHAPTER 3
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
(Rep. by Ord. 2006-10, 3-21-2006)
CHAPTER 4
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWERS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Definitions
9-4-3: Towers In Residential Zoning Districts
9-4-4: Collocation Requirements
9-4-5: Zoning District Allowances
9-4-6: Placement, Setbacks, And Height
9-4-7: Construction Requirements
9-4-8: Tower And Antenna Design Requirements
9-4-9: Lighting
9-4-10: Signs And Advertising
9-4-11: Accessory Utility Buildings
9-4-12: Screening And Landscaping
9-4-13: Existing Antennas And Towers
9-4-14: Abandoned Or Unused Towers Or Portions Of Towers
9-4-15: Additional Submittal Requirements
9-4-16: Violation; Penalty
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
In order to accommodate the communication needs of residents and business while
protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the community, the
city council finds that these regulations are necessary in order to:
   A.   Facilitate the provision of wireless telecommunication services to the
residents and businesses of the city;
   B.   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through careful design and
siting standards;
   C.   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through structural standards and setback requirements; and
   D.   Maximize the use of existing and approved towers and buildings to
accommodate new wireless telecommunication antennas in order to reduce the
number of towers needed to serve the community. (Ord. 73, 11-18-1997)
9-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ANTENNA: Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves placed on a tower, including, but not
limited to, directional antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes, and
satellite dishes, and omni- directional antennas such as whip antennas.
CERTIFIED ENGINEER: An engineer who is licensed by the state of Minnesota.
COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES: Licensed commercial wireless
telecommunication services including cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile radio
(ESMR), paging and similar services that are marketed to the general public.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Persons, corporations, or governments supplying gas, electric,
transportation, water, sewer, or land line telephone service to the general
public. For the purpose of this chapter, commercial wireless telecommunication
service facilities shall not be considered public utility uses and are defined
separately.
TOWER: Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, structure, or combination
thereof taller than fifteen feet (15'), including all supporting materials,
intended primarily for the purpose of mounting an antenna, meteorological
device, or similar apparatus above grade.
TOWER HEIGHT: The vertical distance from a tower's point of contact with the
ground to the highest point of the tower, including all antennas and other
attachments. When a tower is mounted on another structure, "height" shall be
the combined height of the structure and tower, including all antennas and
attachments.
TOWER, MULTIUSER: A tower to which is attached the antennas of more than one
commercial wireless telecommunications service provider or governmental entity.
TOWER, SINGLE USER: A tower to which is attached only the antennas of a single
user, although the tower may be designed to accommodate the antennas of
multiple users as required in this chapter. (Ord. 73, 11-18-1997)
9-4-3: TOWERS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
Towers shall be allowed only in the following residentially zoned areas:
   A.   Amateur Radio Antennas: Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and
conforming to all applicable provisions of this chapter shall be allowed only
in the rear yard of residentially zoned parcels.
   B.   Commercial Antennas: Towers supporting commercial antennas and
conforming to all applicable provisions of this chapter shall be allowed only
in the following residentially zoned locations:
      1.   Park sites, as compatible with the nature of the park and identified
by resolution of the city council.
      2.   Government and school sites. (Ord. 73, 11-18-1997)
9-4-4: COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
All commercial wireless telecommunication towers erected, constructed, or
located within the city shall comply with the following requirements:
A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunication service tower shall
not be approved unless the city council finds that the telecommunication
equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be accommodated on an existing
or approved tower within a one mile search radius (one-half mile for towers
under 150 feet in height, one-quarter mile for towers under 80 feet in height)
of the proposed tower due to one or more of the following reasons:
   A.   Structural Capacity: The planned equipment would exceed the structural
capacity of the existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a
qualified and licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved
tower cannot be reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned or
equivalent equipment at a reasonable cost.
   B.   Interference: The planned equipment would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or
building as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and
the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost.
   C.   Height: Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search
radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to
function reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer to serve commercial and residential needs in the city corporate
boundaries.
   D.   Other Unforeseen Reasons: Other unforeseen reasons that make it
infeasible to locate the planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing
or approved tower or building.
   E.   Additional Users: Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunication
service tower shall be designed, structurally, electrically, and in all
respects, to accommodate both the applicant's antennas and comparable antennas
for at least two (2) additional users if the tower is over one hundred feet
(100') in height, or, for at least one additional user if the tower is over
sixty feet (60') in height. Towers must be designed to allow for future
rearrangement of antennas upon the tower and to accept antennas mounted at
varying heights. (Ord. 73, 11-18-1997)
9-4-5: ZONING DISTRICT ALLOWANCES:
   A.   Residential Districts: Towers in residential districts shall be
permitted accessory uses, subject to the standards of this section and the
location requirements of section
9-4-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Business Districts (C-2, OS):
      1.   Permitted Uses: Towers meeting residential district standards as
accessory structures and location requirements of section
9-4-3 of this chapter.
      2.   Conditional Uses: Towers designed to standards set forth for
business and industrial districts as accessory structures.
   C.   Industrial Districts: Towers in industrial districts shall be permitted
uses subject to the standards of this chapter. (Ord. 73, 11-18-1997)
9-4-6: PLACEMENT, SETBACKS, AND HEIGHT:
   A.   Residential Districts:
      1.   Placement: Communications towers shall be situated in the rear yard
or side yard without encroaching on the front yard area.
      2.   Setbacks:
         a.   Minimum setback from any lot line shall be ten feet (10').
         b.   If a tower and antenna are not rigidly attached to a building,
then minimum setback shall be equal to the height of the tower and antenna.
However, if a tower and antenna are rigidly attached to a building and the
tower's base is on the ground, the minimum setback may be equal to the distance
from the highest point of attachment to the top of the tower and antenna.
      3.   Tower Height:
         a.   The maximum height shall be one hundred fifty feet (150').
         b.   No tower height shall exceed the distance from the base of the
antenna and tower to the nearest overhead electrical power line less five feet
(5').
         c.   Number: There shall be no more than one communication tower per
premises.
   B.   Business And Industrial Districts:
      1.   Placement:
         a.   Business Districts: Towers erected in business districts as
permitted accessory structures shall comply with standards set forth for
residential district towers. Towers erected in business districts as
conditional use structures shall be situated in rear and side yards, without
encroachment into front yard areas, and shall comply with standards set forth
for industrial district towers as accessory structures.
         b.   Industrial Districts: Tower placement may be at any location on
the lot that complies with setback standards for business and industrial
districts.
      2.   Setbacks:
         a.   Towers shall meet the principal structure setbacks of the
underlying zoning district with the exception of industrial zoning districts,
where towers may encroach into the rear and side setback area without
encroaching into the front setback areas; provided, that rear property line
abuts another nonresidentially zoned property. This standard shall also apply
when adjacent to residentially or publicly zoned land, that due to topography,
presence of wetlands or similar limitations, the land will not be actively
developed for residential or public use. Setbacks equal to the height of the
tower shall be established on sites that are adjacent to parcels developed or
able to be developed for residential use.
         b.   The tower shall not encroach upon any easements.
         c.   The minimum distance to the nearest residential property shall be
equal to the height of the tower.
         d.   Towers shall be set back from public rights of way and from
planned public rights of way shown in the comprehensive plan of the city by a
minimum distance equal to one-half (1/2) of the height of the tower including
all antennas and attachments. Towers located in commercial and industrial zoned
areas shall be setback six hundred feet (600') from the Highway 371 right of
way as existing and proposed.
         e.   Towers shall not be located between a principal structure and a
public street, with the following exceptions:
            (1)   In industrial zoning districts, towers may be placed within a
side yard abutting an internal industrial street.
            (2)   On sites adjacent to public streets on all sides, towers may
be placed within a side yard abutting a local street.
         f.   Setback shall be measured between the base of the tower located
nearest the property line and actual property line.
         g.   A tower's setback may be reduced or its location in relation to a
public street varied, at the sole discretion of the city council, to allow the
integration of a tower into an existing or proposed structure such as a church
steeple, light standard, power line support device, or similar structure.
      3.   Tower Height:
         a.   Maximum tower height shall be three hundred fifty feet (350') in
industrial zoned areas and one hundred fifty feet (150') in commercial/office
zoned areas.
         b.   No tower height shall exceed the distance from the base of the
antenna and tower to the nearest overhead electrical power line less five feet
(5'). (Ord. 73, 11-18-1997)
9-4-7: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Permit Required: All communications towers shall require a
building permit and be anchored in a stationary position. Manufacturer's
specifications for the antenna and supporting structure shall be attached to
the building permit application.
   B.   Structural Standards And Wind Loading:
      1.   Residential Districts: Support structures taller than thirty five
feet (35') shall be mounted in concrete, and designed to withstand a wind
velocity of at least seventy (70) miles per hour.
      2.   Business And Industrial Districts: Each tower shall be designed and
built to withstand an eighty (80) miles per hour baseline wind speed with a
minimum of one-half inch (1/2") radial ice. If industry standards increase
these requirements, all new or rebuilt towers shall conform to the new
standards.
      3.   All Towers:
         a.   Design: Tower designs shall be certified by a registered engineer
to conform to the latest structural standards and wind loading requirements of
the uniform building code and its electronics industry association.
         b.   Self-Supporting: Towers must be self-supporting without the use
of wires, cables beams, or other means. No guy wires shall be used. The design
should utilize an open framework or monopole configuration. Permanent platforms
or structures exclusive of antennas that serve to increase off site visibility
are prohibited.
         c.   Support Structures: Support structures shall be grounded
following manufacturer's specifications for grounding.
         d.   Base: The base of the tower shall occupy no more than five
hundred (500) square feet and the top of the tower shall be no larger than the
base.
         e.   National Electrical Code Compliance: Towers and antennas shall be
designed to conform with accepted electrical engineering methods and practices
and to comply with the provisions of the national electrical code.
         f.   Construction: All towers shall be constructed to conform with the
requirements of the occupational safety and health administration.
         g.   Metal Towers: Metal towers shall be constructed of, or treated
with, corrosive resistant material. Wood poles shall be impregnated with rot
resistant substances.
         h.   Extension Prohibited: No part of any antenna or tower shall at
any time extend across or over any part of the right of way, public street,
highway, sidewalk or property line.
   C.   Antennas Mounted On Roofs, Walls, And Existing Towers: The placement of
wireless telecommunication antennas on roofs, walls, and existing towers may be
approved by building permit issuance provided the antennas meet the
requirements of this chapter, after submittal of: 1) a final site and building
plan; and 2) a report prepared by a registered engineer indicating that
existing structure or tower's suitability to accept the antenna, and the
proposed method of affixing the antenna to the structure. Complete details of
all fixtures and couplings, and the precise point of attachment shall be
indicated. (Ord. 73, 11-18-1997)
9-4-8: TOWER AND ANTENNA DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location And Design: Communication towers shall be located and designed
to reduce the visual impact from adjacent properties at street level from
public streets through the use of color and camouflaging architectural
treatment, except in instances where the color is dictated by federal or state
authorities such as the federal aviation administration.
   B.   Installation: Tower installation shall be designed to be compatible
with the underlying site plan. The base of the tower and any accessory
structures shall be landscaped. Accessory structures will be designed to be
architecturally compatible with principal structures on the site.
   C.   Alternative Design: The towers shall be freestanding, and commercial
wireless communication towers in business and residential/public zones shall be
of monopole design unless the city council, upon recommendation by the planning
and zoning commission, determines that an alternative design would better blend
in to the surrounding environment. (Ord. 73, 11-18-1997)
9-4-9: LIGHTING:
Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means and shall not display
strobe lights unless such lighting is specifically required by the federal
aviation administration or other federal or state authority for the particular
tower. When incorporated into the approved design of the tower, light fixtures
used to illuminate ball fields, parking lots, or similar areas may be attached
to the tower. (Ord. 73, 11-18-1997)
9-4-10: SIGNS AND ADVERTISING:
The use of any portion of a tower for signs other than warning or equipment
information signs is prohibited. No advertising messages or identification
visible off site shall be placed on the tower, antennas, or other attachments.
(Ord. 73, 11-18-1997)
9-4-11: ACCESSORY UTILITY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Use: Accessory structures shall enclose transmission equipment, power
equipment, or any equipment located on the ground near the tower.
   B.   Design; Setback: All utility buildings and structures accessory to a
tower shall be architecturally designed to blend in with the surrounding
environment and shall meet the minimum setback requirements of the underlying
zoning district. (Ord. 73, 11-18-1997)
9-4-12: SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Tower Locations: Tower locations should provide the maximum amount of
screening possible for off site views of the facility.
   B.   Existing Vegetation: Existing on site vegetation shall be preserved to
the maximum extent practicable.
   C.   Accessory Buildings; Ground Mounted Equipment: Accessory utility
buildings and ground mounted equipment shall be screened from view from
abutting public rights of way and from abutting residentially zoned property by
suitable vegetation, at least five feet (5') in height, except where a design
of nonvegetative screening better reflects and complements the architectural
character of the surrounding area.
   D.   Fencing: Nonclimbable fencing, at least six feet (6') in height, shall
enclose the area on which the commercial use antenna tower is located. (Ord.
73, 11-18-1997)
9-4-13: EXISTING ANTENNAS AND TOWERS:
Antennas and towers existing as of the effective date hereof which do not
conform to or comply with this chapter are subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Continued In Use: Towers may continue in use for the purpose now used
and as now existing but may not be replaced or structurally altered without
complying in all respects with this chapter.
   B.   Damage Or Destruction: If such towers are hereafter damaged or
destroyed due to any reason or cause whatsoever, the tower may be repaired and
restored to its former use, location, and physical dimensions upon obtaining a
building permit therefor, but without otherwise complying with this chapter;
provided, however, that if the cost of repairing the tower to the former use,
physical dimensions, and location would be ten percent (10%) or more of the
cost of a new tower of like kind and quality, then the tower may not be
repaired or restored except in full compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 73, 11-
18-1997)
9-4-14: ABANDONED OR UNUSED TOWERS OR PORTIONS OF TOWERS:.
   A.   Obsolete, Unused Towers:
      1.   Removal Required; Nuisance Declared: All obsolete or unused towers
and accompanying accessory facilities shall be removed within six (6) months of
the cessation of operations unless a time extension is approved by the city
council. If a time extension is not approved, the tower may be deemed
hazardous, substandard and/or a nuisance pursuant to Minnesota statutes
sections 463.15 through 463.261, 561.01 through 561.03, 429.101 and applicable
city ordinances.
      2.   Abatement By City: In the event a tower is determined to be a
nuisance, the city may act to abate such nuisance and require a removal of the
tower at the real estate property owner's expense.
   B.   Notice Of Intent To Cease Operations:
      1.   Notice Required: The owner shall provide the city with a copy of the
notice of the federal communication commission's intent to cease operations and
shall be given six (6) months from the date of ceasing operations to remove the
obsolete tower and all accessory structures.
      2.   Multiple Users: In the case of multiple operators sharing the use of
a single tower, this provision shall not become effective until all users cease
operations for a period of six (6) months.
      3.   Ground Equipment: The equipment on the ground is not to be removed
until the tower structure has first been dismantled.
      4.   Restoration Of Site: After the facilities are removed, the site
shall be restored to its original or to an improved state. (Ord. 73, 11-18-
1997)
9-4-15: ADDITIONAL SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the information required elsewhere in this chapter, development
applications for towers shall include the following supplemental information:
   A.   Engineer's Report: A report from a certified engineer which:
      1.   Describes the tower height and design including a cross section and
elevation.
      2.   Documents the height above grade for all potential mounting
positions for collocated antennas and the minimum separation distances between
antennas.
      3.   Describes the tower's capacity, including the number and type of
antennas that it can accommodate.
      4.   Documents what steps the applicant will take to avoid interference
with established public safety telecommunications.
      5.   Includes an engineer's stamp and registration number.
      6.   Includes other information necessary to evaluate the request.
   B.   Letter Of Intent: For all commercial wireless telecommunications
service towers, a letter of intent committing the tower owner and his or her
successors to allow the shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in
writing to meet reasonable terms and conditions for shared use. (Ord. 73, 11-
18-1997)
9-4-16: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed seven hundred dollars ($700.00) and/or
imprisonment for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days for each offense. Each
day that the violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
   B.   Additional Remedies: In the event of a violation or a threatened
violation of this chapter, the council, in addition to other remedies, may
institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct, or
abate such violations and it is the duty of the attorney to institute such
action.
   C.   Mandamus Proceedings: Any taxpayer may institute mandamus proceedings
in district court to compel specific performance by the proper official of any
duty required by this chapter. (Ord. 73, 11-18-1997)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC FACILITIES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Intent And Purpose
9-5-2: Definitions
9-5-3: Development Restrictions
9-5-4: Enforcement
9-5-5: Effective Date
9-5-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The city of Baxter has a long standing regulation of allowing development only
when municipal services are provided unless specifically allowed by this
chapter or by zoning district. The city of Baxter has a capital improvement
plan that identifies the city service projects that are anticipated within the
next five (5) years. Development driven growth that provides new public
facilities which are not identified in the city's capital improvement plan
shall be consistent with the development approach as identified in the city's
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2016-031, 6-7-2016)
9-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of these regulations, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their definitions shall have the meanings given in this section. When
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense shall include
the future tense; words in the singular number shall include the plural, and
words in the plural shall include the singular. The masculine gender includes
the feminine and neuter genders. The word "shall" is mandatory, and the word
"may" is permissive.
ACRE: A quantity of land containing forty three thousand five hundred sixty
(43,560) square feet or one hundred sixty (160) square rods in whatever shape
and pattern (e.g., circular, square, triangular, irregular, broad or narrow).
LOT: A parcel of land described by U.S. government survey, by metes and bounds
measurement, by reference to a registered land survey plat, by record of survey
map, or other means, and separated from other parcels or portions by said
description; and which is occupied by, or is suitable under this chapter and
other applicable ordinances for occupancy by one principal building, or used
together with any accessory buildings or uses together with such open spaces as
are required by this chapter or other applicable ordinances. (See also
definition of Lot Of Record.)
LOT AREA: The area of a lot on a horizontal plane bounded by lot lines. For the
purpose of meeting any area or dimensional requirements, the lot area shall not
include any portion that lies within a public road easement or which is below
the ordinary high water mark of any lake, river or stream. In addition, at
least seventy five percent (75%) of the required minimum lot size for that
district must be contiguous upland to itself and not be within a wetland,
floodplain, or bluff. In other words, the lot area would be the contiguous
upland seventy five percent (75%) of the lot that is not within the wetland,
floodplain or bluff.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot of record existing as of January 19, 1982 (the date of
Baxter's first subdivision ordinance).
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Construction of any structure upon a lot in which there was
no structure prior to the adoption date hereof.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires a permanent location
on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location on the
ground, including signs, and including utility structures or boxes in excess of
thirty (30) cubic feet.
SUBDIVISION: The division of any parcel of land into two (2) or more lots,
blocks, and/or sites with or without streets or highways; includes a
resubdivision.
ZONING DISTRICT: An area or areas within the city of Baxter for which the
regulations and requirements governing use, lot size, and other characteristics
are uniform.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The city of Baxter zoning ordinance, as amended from time to
time. (Ord. 2016-031, 6-7-2016)
9-5-3: DEVELOPMENT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No subdivision, rezoning or new construction shall be permitted unless
each lot has access to city sewer and water if so designated by that zoning
district.
   B.   Notwithstanding the above provisions, a property owner may undergo new
construction of any conforming lot of record in R-1, RS and RR zoning
districts. A property owner may undergo new construction on any nonconforming
lot of record in R-1, RS and RR districts provided it complies with subsection
10-1-3D8c of this code. For the purposes of this subsection, "nonconforming
lots" means any lot created prior to April 19, 2011, not served by city water
and sewer. In addition, within RR, Rural Residential and RS, Residential
Staging districts, a property owner may split a lot of record into two (2) lots
as long as each new lot is at least ten (10) acres and complies with the Baxter
subdivision ordinance. (Ord. 2016-031, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019)
9-5-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not to exceed seven hundred dollars
($700.00) and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days for
each offense. Each day that the violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
   B.   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of this chapter,
the council, in addition to other remedies, may institute appropriate actions
or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate such violations and it
is the duty of the city attorney to institute such action.
   C.   Any taxpayer may institute mandamus proceedings in district court to
compel specific performance by the proper official or officials of any duty
required by this chapter.
   D.   No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued upon any
parcel in which subdivision, rezoning or new construction occurs in violation
of the provisions set forth above. (Ord. 2016-031, 6-7-2016)
9-5-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become effective after passage and publication but will not
affect any rezoning applications, preliminary or final plat application or
building permit application that was filed prior thereto. (Ord. 2016-031, 6-7-
2016)
CHAPTER 6
HOUSING MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Introduction
9-6-2: Definitions
9-6-3: Application
9-6-4: Administration
9-6-5: Building Standards
9-6-6: Notice And Penalties
9-6-1: INTRODUCTION:
   A.   Intent: It is the policy of the city to enhance the supply of safe,
sanitary and adequate housing for its citizens and to prevent the deterioration
of existing housing in the city.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this housing code is to establish minimum
standards and procedures for their enforcement consistent with the right to
personal privacy, for the protection of life, limb, health, property, safety,
and welfare of the general public and the owners and occupants of residential
buildings.
   C.   Objectives: The objectives of this chapter include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      1.   Protection and preservation of the stability and residential
character of residential areas in the city.
      2.   The prevention and correction of housing conditions that adversely
affect the life, safety, health and general well being of persons occupying
dwellings in the city.
      3.   The establishment of minimum standards for light, ventilation,
cooling, heating and sanitary equipment necessary to ensure the health and
safety of occupants of dwellings.
      4.   The establishment of minimum standards for the maintenance of
residential dwellings.
      5.   The prevention of the emergence of blighted and deteriorating
housing in the city.
      6.   The prevention of overcrowding of rental dwellings.
      7.   The preservation of the value of land and buildings in the city.
(Ord. 2005-11, 12-20-2005)
9-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
BUILDING CODE: Those provisions found in this title as amended.
CITY CODE: The Baxter city code of ordinances.
CODE OR THIS CODE: The housing maintenance code.
COMMON AREAS: Halls, corridors, passageways, utility rooms, recreational rooms
and extensive landscaped areas, not under the exclusive control of one person
or family, in or adjacent to a multiple dwelling.
COMPLAINT DRIVEN INSPECTION: An inspection initiated by a complaint filed by an
owner, tenant, neighbor, concerned individual or the city.
DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE: A person or company who has the power to act in the
owner's behalf in the owner's absence. A designated representative will be
available to accept legal notice, order emergency repairs and grant access for
complaint driven inspections or emergency inspections.
DWELLING: A building or a portion of a building designed for residential
occupancy. The term includes single-family, two-family and multiple-family
dwellings but does not include hotels, motels and boarding houses. Manufactured
homes (mobile homes) used as rental dwellings are considered a single-family
unit.
DWELLING UNIT: A. A single-family dwelling; or
   B.   A discrete portion of a dwelling designed for occupancy by one family.
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage,
or adoption, living together with not more than two (2) additional persons not
so related, as a housekeeping unit in a single dwelling unit. Each additional
group of four (4) or less persons living in such housekeeping unit shall be
considered a separate, additional family.
HABITABLE SPACE: The space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility
spaces, and similar areas are not considered habitable.
HOUSING OFFICIAL: The city officer or officers in the building department, and
other city departments or agencies designated by the city council to administer
this chapter.
OPENABLE AREA: That part of a window or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
OWNER, OWNER-OPERATOR OR OPERATOR: Any person, firm or corporation who alone or
jointly or severally with others is in actual possession of or have charge,
care or control of a dwelling or dwelling unit in the city as owner, employee
or agent of the owner or as trustee or guardian of the estate or the person of
the title holder, and such person is bound by the provisions of this code to
the same extent as the owner.
PERSON: Individual, corporation, or partnership.
REPAIR: To restore to a sound acceptable state of operation, serviceability or
appearance, in a workmanlike manner.
REPLACE: To remove an existing item or portion of a system and to construct or
install a new item of similar or new quality as an existing item when new
repair of the item is impractical.
UNLAWFUL STRUCTURE: One found in whole or in part to be occupied contrary to
law.
ZONING CODE: Those provisions found in title 10 of the city code, as amended.
Whenever the words "dwelling unit", "dwelling", "premises", "building",
"rooming house", "rooming unit", "story", or "structure" are stated in this
chapter, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or
any part thereof". (Ord. 2005-11, 12-20-2005)
9-6-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   General: This chapter applies to buildings, their premises, accessory
structures thereto, and dwelling units therein, used or designed to be used for
any occupancy.
   B.   Existing Buildings: A building lawfully existing under the building
code 1  must conform to this chapter. A building need not be altered to exceed
the requirements of the building code in effect at the time of its
construction, except in the following cases:
      1.   If a portion of the building is altered, that portion must be built
pursuant to the codes in effect at the time of alteration;
      2.   If the building is moved or relocated; or
      3.   If the building is determined to be unsafe or hazardous by the
building official pursuant to the building code or state law; or that portion
deemed unsafe must be built to current codes. Occupancy in buildings, lawfully
existing under the building code may be continued under this chapter.
   C.   Utilities: Except as otherwise provided by law, an owner, operator or
occupant may not cause service equipment or utility service that is required by
this chapter to be removed, shut off or discontinued for any occupied dwelling
let or occupied by that person, except for such temporary interruption as may
be necessary while actual repairs alterations are in process or during
temporary emergencies.
   D.   Parking: All houses purchased/sold within the city of Baxter that will
be used for rental purposes must provide off street parking pursuant to the
current applicable zoning ordinance provisions. Owners of existing rental
dwelling units shall be exempt from the parking requirements of this section
until such time as the property is sold, transferred, or leased, or until a
building permit is issued for work on the structure.
   E.   Transfer Of Responsibility: A contract between owner and operator,
operator and occupant, or owner and occupant, with regard to compliance with
this chapter, does not relieve the owner or operator of a duty imposed by this
chapter.
   F.   Notice Of Maximum Occupancy: An owner or operator must advise the
occupant, in writing, by inserting in the lease between the parties or
otherwise, of the maximum number of occupants/family members permitted in each
occupied unit which is pursuant to the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 2005-11, 12-20-
2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
9-6-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Enforcement: The city council is ultimately responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter and the supervision of the
housing official.
   B.   Compliance: When the housing official determines that there exists in a
building, its premises, or a portion thereof, conditions that constitute a
violation of this chapter, the housing official may begin enforcement
procedures.
   C.   Registration: No person shall occupy, allow to be occupied, or let to
another for occupancy any rental property in the city of Baxter without first
having obtained a rental dwelling license for such rental property from the
city. Applications for registration must be made by the owner of a rental
dwelling. The application forms are to be filed with the housing official. The
payment of fees set forth in this code shall be a prerequisite to this required
licensing. All rentals using a septic system will be required to pass a
compliance inspection according to Minnesota rule 7080 or bring up to code
prior to registration. The application for license shall be made and filed on
forms furnished by the city for such purpose and shall set forth the following
information:
      1.   Name, residence address and phone number of the owner of the
dwelling or an agent authorized by the owner to accept service of process and
to receive and give receipt notices.
      2.   Name, address and phone number of any agent actively managing said
rental property.
      3.   Street address of the rental property.
      4.   Number and kind of units within the rental property (dwelling units
or sleeping rooms).
      5.   Name, phone number, and address of the person authorized to make or
order repairs and/or service to the building, to provide required services
necessary to protect health, safety and welfare of the occupants or is able to
contact the person so authorized.
      6.   Maximum number of people permitted per dwelling unit or sleeping
room.
      7.   Name and phone number of current tenant.
   D.   License Fee: A license fee shall be assessed on all rental units. The
license fee shall be an annual per unit fee and shall be included with the
renewal statement. Such fee shall be set by resolution of the council.
   E.   Notice Of Change: The registrant must give notice in writing to the
housing official within five (5) business days after any change of the
information in the application. Notice of transfer of ownership is governed by
section
9-6-6 of this chapter.
   F.   Posting Of Registration: A rental registration certificate shall be
issued to each registered unit. The owner of a rental dwelling containing three
(3) or more rental dwelling units must conspicuously post the registration in
the main entryway or other conspicuous location in a frame with a suitable
cover.
   G.   Transfer: The registrant must give notice in writing to the housing
official within five (5) business days after having legally transferred or
otherwise disposed of the effective control of a registered rental dwelling.
The notice must include the name and address of the person succeeding to the
ownership or control of the rental dwelling or dwellings. For purposes of this
subdivision the term "effective control" means that control exercised over
property by a business proprietor, whether as owner ar lessee or by an owner or
lessee of other property. A point of sale inspection shall be conducted on all
residential units and shall be conducted at the buyers' or sellers' expense.
   H.   Inspection Authority: The housing official administers and enforces the
provisions of this section. The housing official shall inspect on a biannual
basis or by complaint. Inspections must be conducted during reasonable daylight
hours. The housing official must present evidence of official authority to the
occupant in charge of a registered rental dwelling. A licensed building
inspector shall have the authority to issue petty misdemeanors.
      1.   Notices And Orders: The code official shall issue all necessary
notices or orders to enter the structure or premises at reasonable times to
inspect. Prior to entering into a space not otherwise open to the general
public, the code official shall make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or
other person having charge or control of the structure or premises, present
proper identification and request entry. If requested entry is refused or not
obtained, the code official shall pursue recourse as provided by law.
      2.   Right Of Entry: Upon receipt of a written complaint, the code
official is authorized to enter the structure or premises at reasonable times
to inspect prior to entering into a space not otherwise open to the general
public, the code official shall make reasonable effort to locate the owner or
other person having charge or control of the structure or premises, present
proper identification and request entry. If requested entry is refused or not
obtained, the code official shall pursue recourse as provided by law.
      3.   Access By Owner Or Operator: Every occupant of a structure or
premises shall give the owner or operator thereof, or agent or employee, access
to any part of such structure or its premises at reasonable times for the
purpose of making such inspection, maintenance, repairs or alterations as are
necessary to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Identification: The code official shall carry proper identification
when inspecting structure on premises in the performance of duties under this
chapter.
      5.   Coordination Of Enforcement: Inspection of premises, the issuance of
notices and orders and enforcement thereof shall be the responsibility of the
code official so charged by the jurisdiction. Whenever inspections are
necessary by any other department, the code official shall make reasonable
effort to arrange for the coordination of such inspections so as to minimize
the number of visits by inspectors, and to confer with the other departments
for the purpose of eliminating conflicting orders before any are issued. A
department shall not, however, delay the issuance of any emergency orders.
      6.   Rule Making Authority: The city council shall have power as
necessary in the interest of public health, safety and general welfare, to
adopt the promulgate rules and regulations to interpret and implement the
provisions of this chapter to secure the intent thereof and to designate
requirements applicable because of local climatic or other conditions. Such
rules shall not have the effect of waiving structural or fire performance
requirements, specifically provided for in this chapter of violating accepted
engineering practice involving public safety. Upon determination by the city
that a registered premises was used in a disorderly manner, the city shall give
notice to the registrant and occupant of the violation and direct the
registrant and occupant to take steps to prevent further violations.
      7.   Organization: The city council shall appoint such number of
officers, technical assistants, inspectors and other employees as shall be
necessary for the administration of this chapter and as authorized to designate
an employee as deputy who shall exercise all the powers of the code official
during the temporary absence or disability of the code official.
      8.   Restriction Of Employees: An official or employee connected with the
enforcement of this chapter, except one whose only connection is that of a
member of the board of appeals, shall not be engaged in, or directly or
indirectly connected with, the furnishing of labor, materials or appliances for
the construction, alteration or maintenance of a building, or the preparation
of construction documents thereof, unless that person is the owner of the
building; nor shall such officer or employee engage in any work that conflicts
with official duties or with the interests of the department.
      9.   Relief From Personal Responsibility: The code official, officer or
employee charged with the enforcement of this chapter, while acting for the
jurisdiction, shall not thereby be rendered liable personally, and is hereby
relieved from all personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
official duties. Any suit instituted against an officer or employee because of
an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties
and under the provisions of this chapter shall be defended by the legal
representative of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the
proceedings. The code official or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs
in any action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the
provisions of this chapter; and any officer of the department of housing
inspection, acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free from
liability for acts performed under any of its provisions or by reason of any
act or omission in the performance of official duties in connection therewith.
      10.   Official Records: An official record shall be kept of all business
and activities of the department specified in the provisions of this chapter,
and all such records shall be open to public inspection at all appropriate
times and according to reasonable rules to maintain the integrity and security
of such records.
   I.   Access: If an owner, occupant, or other person in charge of a rental
dwelling registered under this section fails or refuses to permit free access
and entry for inspection purposes, the housing official may, upon showing of
probable cause, obtain orders from a court of competent jurisdiction for the
inspection.
   J.   Failure To Register: Anyone failing to register a rental unit shall be
in violation of this chapter.
   K.   Implementation Policy: The city council may adopt by resolution
policies and guidelines for the implementation and administration of this
chapter. These policies and guidelines must include, but are not limited to,
standards and guidelines relating to:
      1.   Procedures for housing inspections;
      2.   Proper disposition of information gathered in connection with
housing inspections;
      3.   Conditional occupancy of housing during periods needed for
compliance;
      4.   Methods of encouraging the correction of deficiencies by cooperation
between owner and proposed and current occupants.
   L.   Conduct:
      1.   It shall be the responsibility of the occupants to conduct
themselves in such a manner as not to cause the premises to be disorderly. Upon
determination by the city that a registered premises was used in a disorderly
manner, the city shall give notice to the registrant and occupant of the
violation and direct the registrant and occupant to take steps to prevent
further violations.
      2.   If another instance of substantiated disorderly use of registered
premises occurs within three (3) months of an incident for which a notice was
given, the city shall notify the registrant and occupant of the violation,
issue a citation to the tenant as a second violation consistent with the
current resolution establishing fees for violations of this section, and shall
also require the registrant and occupant to submit a written report of the
actions taken, and proposed to be taken, by the registrant and occupant to
prevent further disorderly use of the premises. This written report shall be
submitted to the city within five (5) days of receipt of the notice of
disorderly use of the response to all notices of disorderly use of the premises
within the preceding three (3) months.
      3.   If another instance of substantiated disorderly use of the
registered premises occurs within three (3) months after any two (2) previous
instances of disorderly use for which notices were given to the registrant and
occupant pursuant to this section, the rental dwelling registrant must then
initiate eviction proceedings. In the event of an eviction and upon inspection
of the dwelling, the tenant will be held responsible for any costs of repairs
or cleaning required to bring the facility back into compliance with this
section as a result of the actions of the tenant.
      4.   No adverse action shall be imposed upon the registrant where the
instance of disorderly use of the registered premises occurred during the
pendency of eviction proceedings.
      5.   A determination that the registered premises have been used in a
disorderly manner shall be made upon a fair preponderance of the evidence to
support such a determination. It shall not be necessary that criminal charges
be brought in order to support a determination of disorderly use nor shall the
fact of dismissal or acquittal of such a criminal charge operate as a bar to
adverse license action under this section.
      6.   All notices pursuant to this chapter.
      7.   Enforcement actions provided in this section shall not be exclusive,
and the city council may take any action with respect to a licensee, a tenant,
or the licensed premises as is authorized by the city code, state or federal
law. (Ord. 2005-11, 12-20-2005)
9-6-5: BUILDING STANDARDS:
   A.   Unsafe Or Unfit Structures: When a structure or equipment is found by
the code official to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human
occupancy, or is found unlawful, such structure shall be condemned or ordered
to be repaired pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
      1.   Unsafe Structures: An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe
equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe, or of
such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete
collapse is likely.
      2.   Unsafe Equipment: Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to
life, health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
      3.   Structure Unfit For Human Occupancy: A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the code official finds that such structure is unsafe,
unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating
facilities or other essential equipment required by this chapter, or because
the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
structure or to the public.
      4.   Closing Of Vacant Structures: If the structure is vacant and unfit
for human habitation and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural
collapse, the code official is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on
the premises and order the structure closed up as not to be an attractive
nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises within the time
specified in the order, the code official shall cause the premises to be closed
through any available public agency or by contract or arrangement by private
persons and the cost thereof shall be charged against the real estate upon
which structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate, pursuant
to the provisions of Minnesota statutes, section 463.15 to 463.26.
      5.   Notice: Whenever the code official has condemned a structure or
equipment under the provisions of this section, notice shall be posted on a
conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice and served
on the owner or the person or persons responsible for the structure or
equipment in accordance with section
9-6-6 of this chapter.
      6.   Failure To Comply: Upon failure of the owner or person responsible
to comply with the notice provisions with the time given, the code official
shall post on the premises or on defective equipment, a placard bearing the
word "Condemned" and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard.
      7.   Prohibited Occupancy: Any person who shall occupy a placarded
premises or shall operate placarded equipment and any owner or any person
responsible for the premises who shall let anyone occupy a placarded premises
or operate placarded equipment shall be liable for the penalties provided by
this chapter.
      8.   Removing Notice: The code official or authorized contractor shall
remove the condemnation placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the
condemnation and placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person
who defaces or removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the code
official shall be subject to the penalties provided by this chapter.
      9.   Hazardous Conditions: If the housing official determines that there
exists in a building a condition that constitutes an immediate hazard to the
health and safety of its occupants, the official may:
         a.   Issue a compliance order requiring immediate compliance if the
condition can reasonably be corrected;
         b.   Proceed against the building pursuant to applicable state laws
relating to hazardous or unsafe structures; and
         c.   Recommend that the city council proceed to correct the condition
by abating it as a nuisance under Minnesota statutes, section 429.101.
   B.   Emergency Measures: When, in the opinion of the code official, there is
imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure which
endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen and
life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when there is actual
or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any
structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of
toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous
equipment, the code official is hereby authorized and empowered to order and
require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The code official shall
cause to be posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as
follows: "This Structure is Unsafe and its Occupancy has been Prohibited by the
Code Official". It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure
except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs,
removing the hazardous condition, or of demolishing the same.
   C.   Exterior Property Areas:
      1.   Sanitation: All exterior property and premises shall be maintained
in a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of
the exterior property which such occupant controls in a clean and sanitary
condition.
      2.   Grading And Drainage: All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon or within any structure
located thereon unless retention areas and reservoirs are approved by the code
official.
      3.   Accessory Structures: All accessory structures including detached
garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair. Any occupant shall not cause accessory structures to become
structurally unsound or in disrepair.
   D.   Exterior Structure:
      1.   General: The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety or welfare.
      2.   Structural Members: All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
      3.   Foundation Walls: All foundation walls shall be kept in such
condition so as to prevent the entry of rats or vermin. Breaks and cracks shall
be kept in good repair so as not to affect the safety of the structure.
      4.   Exterior Walls: All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks,
loose or rotting materials, and maintained weatherproof and properly surface
coated where required to prevent deterioration.
      5.   Roofs And Drainage: The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public nuisance.
      6.   Decorative Features: All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra
cotta trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in
good repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
      7.   Overhang Extensions: All canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings,
stairways, fire escapes, standpipes, exhaust ducts and similar overhang
extensions shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as to
be kept in a safe and sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
      8.   Chimneys And Towers: All chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks, and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
      9.   Handrails And Guards: Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
      10.   Window And Doorframes: Every window, door and frame shall be kept
in sound condition, good repair and weather tight as their design allows.
      11.   Glazing: All glazing materials shall be maintained free from holes.
      12.   Openable Windows: One window in every habitable space, other than a
fixed window, shall be openable and capable of being held in an openable
position.
      13.   Insect Screens: During the period from April 1 to October 15, each
openable window and other outside opening utilized or required for ventilation
purposes serving any structure containing habitable rooms, food preparation
areas and food service areas, shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting
screens of not less than sixteen (16) mesh per inch.
      14.   Doors: All exterior doors and hardware shall be maintained in good
condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units, rooming units and guest
units shall tightly secure the door. Double keyed deadbolts will not be
allowed.
      15.   Basement Hatchways: Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rats, rain and surface drainage water.
   E.   Interior Structure:
      1.   General: The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
Every occupant shall keep that part of the structure which such occupant
occupies or controls in a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a
structure containing a dormitory, or two (2) or more dwelling units shall
maintain, in a clean and sanitary condition, the shared or public areas of the
structure and exterior property.
      2.   Structural Members: The supporting structural members of every
structure shall be maintained structurally sound, and be capable of supporting
the imposed loads.
      3.   Interior Surfaces: All interior surfaces, including windows and
doors, shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling
paint, cracked or loose plaster, decayed wood, and other defective surface
conditions shall be corrected.
      4.   Stairs And Railings: All interior stairs and railings shall be
maintained in sound condition and good repair. All stairs consisting of four
(4) or more risers must have a handrail capable of being gripped mounted
immediately adjacent to the stairs, pursuant to the requirements of the
building code 1 .
      5.   Handrails And Guards: Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   F.   Rubbish:
      1.   Accumulation Of Rubbish Or Garbage: All exterior property and
premises, and the interior of every structure shall be free from any
accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
      2.   Containers: The owner of every rental dwelling shall provide
adequate, leakproof containers with close-fitting covers for the storage of
such materials until removed from the premises for disposal.
      3.   Disposal: The owner of every rental dwelling shall provide for the
disposal of such materials.
   G.   Extermination: All structures shall be kept free from insect and rat
infestation. All structures in which insects or rats are found shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human
health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
infestation. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for extermination
within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
   H.   Habitable Spaces: Every habitable space shall have at least one window
of approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The minimum
total window area, measured between stops, for every habitable space shall be
ten percent (10%) of the floor area of such room, except in kitchens where
artificial light is provided in accordance with the provisions of the building
code. Wherever walls or other portions of a structure face a window of any room
and such obstructions are located less than three feet (3') (914 mm) from the
window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such window
shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors nor to a court and shall
not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window area for
the room. Every common hall and stairway, other than in one- and two-family
dwellings, shall be adequately lighted at all times. Every exterior stairway
shall be adequately illuminated at floors, landings and treads.
   I.   Ventilation: Every habitable space shall have at least one openable
window, other than kitchens which meet the conditions of subsection H of this
section. Unless approved through the certificate of occupancy, cooking shall
not be permitted in any rooming unit or dormitory unit, and a cooking facility
or appliance shall not be permitted to be present in a rooming unit or
dormitory unit unless specifically approved in writing by the code official.
Clothes dryer venting systems shall be independent of all other systems and
shall be vented in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
   J.   Occupancy Limitations:
      1.   Privacy: Dwelling units and dormitory units shall be arranged to
provide privacy and be separate from other adjoining spaces.
      2.   Access From Sleeping Rooms: Sleeping rooms shall not constitute the
only means of access to other sleeping rooms or habitable spaces unless the
dwelling unit contains fewer than two (2) bedrooms.
      3.   Water Closet Accessibility: Every bedroom shall have access to at
least one water closet and one lavatory without passing through another
bedroom.
      4.   Prohibited Occupancy: Kitchens and uninhabitable spaces shall not be
occupied for sleeping purposes unless the dwelling unit is an efficiency
apartment.
      5.   Minimum Ceiling Heights: Habitable spaces, other than kitchens,
shall have a clear ceiling height of not less than seven feet six inches
(7'6"). Hallways, corridors, laundry areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms and
kitchens shall have a clear ceiling height of not less than seven feet (7').
         a.   Exceptions:
            (1)   Beams or girders spaced not less than four feet (4') (1219
mm) on center and projecting not more than six inches (6") (152 mm) below the
required ceiling height, provided that the minimum clear height is not less
than six feet eight inches (6'8") (2033 mm).
            (2)   Dropped or furred ceilings over not more than one-half (1/2)
of the minimum floor area required by this chapter, provided that no part of
such dropped or furred ceiling is less than seven feet (7') (2134 mm) in
height.
            (3)   Rooms occupied exclusively for sleeping, study or similar
purposes and having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a clear
ceiling height of at least seven feet (7') (2134 mm) over not less than one-
third (1/3) of the required minimum floor area. In calculating the floor area
of such rooms, only those portions of the floor area with a clear height of
five feet (5') (1524 mm) or more shall be included.
            (4)   Basement rooms in one- and two-family dwellings occupied
exclusively for laundry, study or recreation purposes, having a ceiling height
of not less than six feet eight inches (6'8") (2033 mm) with not less than six
feet four inches (6'4") (1932 mm) of clear height under beams, girders, ducts
and similar obstructions.
      6.   Maximum Occupancy: There must be a bedroom for every two (2)
occupants in each dwelling unit.
      7.   Minimum Room Widths: A habitable room other than a kitchen, shall
not be less than seven feet (7') (2133 mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens
shall have clear passageway of not less than three feet (3') (914 mm) between
counter fronts and appliances or counter fronts and walls.
      8.   Food Preparation: All spaces to be occupied for food preparation
purposes shall contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare and serve
foods in a sanitary manner. There shall be adequate facilities and services for
sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse, including facilities for temporary
storage.
      9.   Toilet Rooms And Bathrooms: All toilet rooms and bathrooms are to be
kept in such a condition so that the person in possession is able to keep such
room clean and sanitary.
   K.   Plumbing Standards:
      1.   Responsibility: The owner of the structure shall provide and
maintain such plumbing facilities and plumbing fixtures in compliance with
these requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit
another person to occupy any structure or premises which does not comply with
the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Dwelling Units: Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub or
shower, lavatory, water closet and kitchen sink which shall be maintained in a
sanitary, safe working condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room
as the water closet or located in close proximity to the door leading directly
into the room in which such water closet is located, unless it is preexisting
or in separate rooms unless the dwelling unit is a dormitory unit or single
room occupancy unit.
      3.   Privacy: Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall provide privacy and shall
not constitute the only passageway to a hall or other space, or to the
exterior.
      4.   General: All plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and
maintained in working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks
and defects and be capable of performing the function for which such plumbing
fixtures are designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe,
sanitary and functional condition.
      5.   Fixture Clearances: Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearances
for usage and cleaning.
      6.   General: Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain,
water closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to either a
public water system or to an approved private water system. All kitchen sinks,
lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers shall be supplied with hot
or tempered and cold running water.
      7.   Contamination: The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination, and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located
above the flood level rim of the fixture.
      8.   Supply: The water supply system shall be installed and maintained to
provide a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and appurtenances in
sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function
properly, safely, and free from defects and leaks.
      9.   Water Heating Facilities: Water heating facilities shall be properly
installed, maintained and capable of providing an adequate amount of water to
be drawn at every required sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility
at a temperature of not less than one hundred ten degrees Fahrenheit (110°F)
and not more than one hundred thirty degrees Fahrenheit (130°F). A gas burning
water heater shall not be located in any bathroom, toilet room, bedroom or
other occupied room normally kept closed, unless adequate combustion air is
provided. An approved combination temperature and pressure relief valve and
relief valve discharge pipe shall be properly installed and maintained on water
heaters.
      10.   General: All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to
either a public sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
      11.   Maintenance: Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall
function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
   L.   Mechanical And Electrical Standards:
      1.   Responsibility: The owner of the structure shall provide and
maintain mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with
these requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit
another person to occupy any premises which does not comply with the
requirements by this section.
      2.   Heating Facilities Required: Heating facilities shall be provided in
structures as required by this section.
      3.   Residential Buildings: Every dwelling shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of seventy degrees
Fahrenheit (70°F). In all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms based on
the outside design temperature required for the locality by the mechanical
code.
      4.   Heat Supply: Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling unit, rooming unit, dormitory or guestroom
on terms either expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof
shall supply sufficient heat during the period from September 1 to May 31 to
maintain the room temperatures during the hours between six thirty o'clock (6:
30) A.M. and ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. of each day and not less than
sixty degrees Fahrenheit (60°F) (16°C) during other hours.
      5.   Room Temperature Measurement: The required room temperatures shall
be measured at a point three feet (3') (914 mm) above the floor and three feet
(3') (914 mm) from the exterior walls.
      6.   Mechanical Equipment: All mechanical equipment, fireplaces and solid
fuel burning appliances shall be properly installed and maintained in a safe
working condition, and shall be capable of performing the intended function.
Decorative fireplaces not intended for use shall be allowed to exist provided
that the owner notifies the occupant in writing that the fireplace unit is not
usable. Such document shall be signed by both the owner and occupant.
      7.   Cooking And Heating Equipment: All cooking and heating equipment,
components and accessories in every heating, cooking and water heating device
shall be maintained free from leaks and obstructions. All equipment shall be
kept in good repair so as not to affect the health or safety of the occupants
of the structure.
      8.   Flue: All fuel burning equipment and appliances shall be connected
to an approved chimney or vent. Flues shall be maintained and kept in good
condition so as not to affect the health or safety of the occupants of the
structure.
      9.   Clearance: All required clearances to combustible materials shall be
maintained.
      10.   Safety Controls: All safety controls for fuel burning equipment
shall be maintained in effective operation.
      11.   Energy Conservation Devices: Devices purporting to reduce fuel
consumption by attachment to a fuel burning appliance, to the fuel supply line
thereto, or to the vent outlet or vent piping therefrom, shall not be installed
unless labeled for such purpose and the installation is specifically approved.
      12.   Electrical Facilities Required: Every occupied building shall be
provided with a properly maintained electrical system that was in compliance
with requirements of the national electrical code at the time of installation,
any updating of electrical systems shall comply with the applicable standards
in force at the time the changes occurred. Any and all substandard work shall
be repaired to present day national electrical code standards. All other
current protection for conductors shall equal the conductor's amperages.
      13.   Service: The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve
as the basis for determining the need to upgrade service entrance equipment.
All one hundred twenty (120) volt 2-wire services shall be deemed inadequate by
today's standards.
      14.   Electrical System Hazards: Where it is found that the electrical
system in a structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by
reason of inadequate service, improper fusing, insufficient outlets, improper
wiring or installation, deterioration or damage, or for similar reasons, the
code official shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the
hazard.
      15.   Electrical Equipment Installation: All electrical equipment, wiring
and appliances shall be properly installed and maintained in a safe and
approved manner.
      16.   Receptacles: Every habitable space in a dwelling shall contain at
least one receptacle in a dwelling. Every laundry area shall contain at least
one grounded type receptacle. Every bathroom shall contain at least one
grounded type receptacle.
      17.   Lighting Fixtures: Every public hall, interior stairway, water
closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room and furnace room shall contain at
least one electric lighting fixture.
   M.   Elevators: Elevators shall be maintained to sustain safely all imposed
loads, to operate properly, and to be free from physical and fire hazards. In
buildings equipped with passenger elevators, at least one elevator shall be
maintained in operation at all times when the building is occupied unless the
building is equipped with only one elevator.
   N.   Fire Safety Standards:
      1.   Responsibility: The owner of the premises shall provide and maintain
such fire safety facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. The owner shall not allow to be occupied any premises that does
not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   General: A safe, continuous and unobstructed means of egress shall
be provided from the interior of a structure to a public way.
      3.   Arrangement: Exits from dwelling units, rooming units, guestrooms
and dormitory units shall not lead through other such units, or through toilet
rooms or bathrooms.
      4.   Stairways, Handrails And Guards: Every exterior and interior flight
of stairs having more than four (4) risers, and every open portion of a stair,
landing or balcony which is more than thirty inches (30") in height above the
floor or grade below shall have guards. Handrails shall not be less than thirty
four inches (34") nor more than thirty eight inches (38") high, measured
vertically above the nosing of the tread or above the finished floor of the
landing or walking surfaces. Guards shall be thirty six inches (36") high above
the floor of the landing or balcony.
      5.   Emergency Escape: Every sleeping room located in a basement shall
have access to not less than two (2) approved independent exits. This
additional exit may be a doorway or a window. Exception: buildings equipped
throughout with an automatic fire suppression system.
      6.   Accumulations: Rubbish, garbage or other materials shall not be
stored or allowed to accumulate in stairways, passageways, doors, windows, fire
escapes or other means of egress.
      7.   Hazardous Material: Combustible, flammable, explosive or other
hazardous materials, such as paints, volatile oils and cleaning fluids, or
combustible rubbish, such as wastepaper, boxes and rags, shall not be
accumulated or stored unless such storage complies with the applicable
requirements of the building code 2  and the fire prevention code 3 .
      8.   General: The fire resistance rating of floors, walls, ceilings, and
other elements and components shall be maintained.
      9.   Maintenance: All required fire doors and smoke barriers shall be
maintained in good working order, including all hardware necessary for the
proper operation thereof. Fire doors shall not be held open by door stops,
wedges and other unapproved hold open devices.
      10.   General: All systems, devices and equipment to detect a fire,
actuate an alarm, or suppress or control a fire or any combination thereof
shall be properly maintained.
      11.   Smoke Detectors: All buildings shall be properly equipped with
properly located smoke detectors. It is the responsibility of the owner and
occupant to be in agreement regarding the maintenance and testing of battery
operated smoke detectors. Removing the batteries and not replacing them, or
rendering an installed smoke detector inoperable by any means is considered
tampering with a fire protection device and carries those penalties described
in the adopted fire code.
      12.   Fire Extinguishers: All dwelling units shall have at least one on
site fire extinguisher with a minimum rating of ABC ten (10) pounds.
      13.   Minimum Requirements: These requirements are considered to be
minimum and not total. The city of Baxter has adopted the Minnesota uniform
fire code. All properties subject to this chapter are subject to the Minnesota
uniform fire code as adopted and amended by the city of Baxter shall in the
case of discrepancy supersede this chapter. (Ord. 2005-11, 12-20-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
2 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
3 2. See chapter 2 of this title.
9-6-6: NOTICE AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice To Owner Or To Person Or Persons Responsible: Whenever the code
official determines that there has been a violation of this chapter or has
grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, notice shall be given to the
owner or the person or persons responsible therefor in the manner prescribed
herein.
   B.   Form: Such notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      3.   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why the notice is being
issued; and
      4.   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time for the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code.
   C.   Method Of Service: Such a notice shall be deemed to be properly served
if a copy thereof is: 1) delivered to the owner personally; or 2) sent by mail
addressed to the owner at the last known address with return receipt requested;
or 3) pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 145A.04. If the letter is returned
showing that the letter was not delivered or was unable to be served by law
enforcement, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure affected by such notice. Service of such notice in the foregoing
manner upon the owner's agent or upon the person responsible for the structure
shall constitute service of notice upon the owner.
   D.   Transfer Of Ownership: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dwelling unit or structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom a
notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer, lease or otherwise
dispose of to another until the provisions of the compliance order or notice of
violation have been complied with, or until such owner shall first furnish the
grantee, transferee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of
violation issued by the code official and shall furnish to the code official a
signed and notarized statement from the grantee, transferee or lessee,
acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or notice of violation and
fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making the corrections
or repairs required by such compliance order on notice of violation.
   E.   Assessment: Upon a failure to comply with a compliance order within the
time set therein, and no appeal having been taken, or upon failure to comply
with a modified compliance order within the time set therein, the criminal
penalty established hereunder notwithstanding, the city council after due
notice to the owner may by resolution cause the cited deficiency to be remedied
as set forth in the compliance order. The cost of such remedy is a lien against
the subject real estate and may be levied and collected as a special assessment
in the manner provided by Minnesota statutes, chapter 429, for any of the
reasons set forth in section 42.101, subdivision 1, and specifically for the
removal or elimination of public health or safety hazards from private
property. The assessment will be payable in a single installment. It is the
intent of this section to authorize the city to utilize all of the provisions
of section 429.101 to promote the public's health, safety and general welfare.
   F.   Fines: The city may fine the owner or occupant. All fines and fees as
set forth in this chapter shall be established by council resolution.
   G.   Criminal Prosecution: It shall be a petty misdemeanor to fail to comply
with a lawfully issued compliance order under this chapter or to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, equip, use, occupy or
maintain any building or structure within the city contrary to the provisions
of this chapter.
   H.   Effective Date Of Fines And Prosecution: No one will be fined,
prosecuted or assessed by the power of this chapter until January 2007, so that
all owners and occupants have ample time to comply with the provisions herein.
   I.   Appeal: When it is alleged by a person to whom a compliance order is
directed that the compliance order is based upon erroneous interpretation of
this section or upon a misstatement or a mistake of fact, that person may
appeal the compliance order to the city council. The city council, will hear
the appeal within fourteen (14) days after receipt. The appeal: 1) must be in
writing, 2) must specify the grounds of the appeal, and 3) must be filed with
the housing official within five (5) business days after the service of the
compliance order. The filing of an appeal stays proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless such a stay in the judgment of the housing
official would cause imminent peril to life, health or property. The council's
disposition of the appeal is final. (Ord. 2005-11, 12-20-2005)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTRICAL ACT
SECTION:
9-7-1: Chapter Repealed
9-7-1: CHAPTER REPEALED:
The City Council of the City of Baxter, Minnesota, hereby ordains that Chapter
7, of Title 9 of the Baxter City Code is hereby repealed and that all
electrical inspections shall be completed by the State of Minnesota. (Ord.
2021-012, 9-6-2022)
CHAPTER 8
INDIVIDUAL SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose And Authority
9-8-2: Definitions
9-8-3: Intent
9-8-4: Jurisdiction
9-8-5: Effective Date
9-8-6: Scope
9-8-7: City Administration
9-8-8: State Administration
9-8-9: Liability
9-8-10: All SSTS
9-8-11: SSTS On Lots Created After January 23, 1996
9-8-12: Upgrade, Repair, Replacement And Abandonment
9-8-13: SSTS In Floodplains
9-8-14: Class V Injection Wells
9-8-15: SSTS Practitioner Licensing
9-8-16: Prohibitions
9-8-17: Alternative Local Standards Adopted By Reference
9-8-18: Differences In Standards
9-8-19: Compliance Criteria For Existing SSTS
9-8-20: Holding Tanks
9-8-21: State Agency Variance Requests
9-8-22: Permit Requirements
9-8-23: Operating Permit
9-8-24: Compliance Inspection Program
9-8-25: Enforcement
9-8-26: State Notification Of Violation
9-8-27: Recordkeeping
9-8-28: Annual Report
9-8-29: Fees
9-8-30: Dispute Resolution
9-8-1: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for and regulation
of individual sewage treatment systems (ISTS) and midsized sewage treatment
systems (MSTS) including the proper location, design and construction; their
necessary modification and reconstruction; their operation, maintenance and
repair to protect surface water and groundwater from contamination by human
sewage and waterborne household and commercial wastes; to protect the public's
health and safety, and eliminate or prevent the development of public nuisances
pursuant to the authority granted under Minnesota statutes sections 115.55,
145A.05, 375.51, 394.21 through 394.37, and 471.82. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Purpose: For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms and words are
defined. The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual. The
present tense includes the future tense and the singular number shall include
the plural and plural shall include the singular. The words "must" and "shall"
are mandatory and the word "may" is permissive; the words "used" or "occupied"
include the words "intended", "designed" or "arranged to be used" or
"occupied". The words "lot", "plot" or "parcel" are interchangeable. Specific
definitions used within this chapter, unless another meaning is clearly given,
are listed below.
   B.   Definitions:
    COMMISSIONER (DNR): The commissioner of the department of natural resources
or his/her authorized representative.
   FAILING SYSTEM: Any subsurface sewage treatment system that discharges
sewage to a seepage pit, cesspool, drywell or leaching pit, and any system with
less than the required vertical separation as described in Minnesota rule
7080.1500 subps. 4(D and E).
   IMMINENT THREAT TO PUBLIC HEALTH OR SAFETY: A subsurface sewage treatment
system that creates the potential to immediately and adversely affect or
threaten public health and safety as described in Minnesota rule 7080.1500
subp. 4(A). At a minimum, this includes discharge of sewage or sewage effluent
to the ground surface, agricultural or other drainage systems, ditches,
stormwater drains or discharges directly to surface water, sewage backup into a
dwelling, electrical hazards, or sewage tanks with unsecured or weak
maintenance covers.
   REDOXIMORPHIC FEATURES: Features formed in saturated soils by the process of
reduction, translocation and oxidation of iron and manganese compounds or other
soil, landscape or vegetative indicators. Redoximorphic features are commonly
known as mottling.
   SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM (SSTS): A sewage treatment system, or
part thereof, serving a dwelling, or group thereof, and using sewage tanks
followed by soil treatment and disposal or using advanced treatment devices
that discharge below final grade. Subsurface sewage treatment system includes
holding tanks and privies. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-3: INTENT:
It is intended by the city that this chapter will promote the following:
   A.   The protection of lakes, rivers and streams, wetlands, and groundwater
in the city essential to the promotion of public health, safety, welfare,
socioeconomic growth and development of the city.
   B.   The regulation of proper SSTS construction, reconstruction, repair and
maintenance to prevent the entry and migration of contaminants, thereby
protecting the degradation of surface water and groundwater quality.
   C.   The establishment of minimum standards for SSTS placement, design,
construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance to prevent contamination
and, if contamination is discovered, the identification and control of its
consequences and the abatement of its source and migration.
   D.   The appropriate utilization of privy vaults and other nonwater carried
sewage collection and storage facilities. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-4: JURISDICTION:
The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all lands of the city. (Ord.
2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The provisions set forth in this chapter shall become effective on January 20,
2015. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-6: SCOPE:
This chapter regulates the siting, design, installation, alterations,
operation, maintenance, monitoring, and management of all SSTS within the
city's applicable jurisdiction including, but not necessarily limited to,
individual SSTS and cluster or community SSTS, privy vaults, and other nonwater
carried SSTS. All sewage generated in unsewered areas of the city shall be
treated and dispersed by an approved SSTS that is sited, designed, installed,
operated, and maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or
by a system that has been permitted by the MPCA. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-7: CITY ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The city shall administer the SSTS program and all provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   The city's duties and responsibilities include, but are not limited to,
the following:
      1.   Review all applications for SSTS.
      2.   Issue all permits required in this chapter.
      3.   Inspect all work regulated in this chapter.
      4.   Investigate all complaints regarding SSTS.
      5.   Issue certificates of installation, certificates of compliance or
notices of noncompliance where applicable.
      6.   Enact enforcement provisions of this chapter as necessary.
      7.   Refer unresolved violations of this chapter to the city attorney.
      8.   Maintain current records for each permitted SSTS including all site
evaluation documents, design documents, inspection documents, and other
applicable documents.
      9.   The city shall employ or retain under contract qualified and
appropriately licensed professionals to administer and operate the SSTS
program.
      10.   Submit annual reports to MPCA as required. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-
2015)
9-8-8: STATE ADMINISTRATION:
The owner or owners of a single SSTS or a group of SSTS under common ownership
must obtain an SDS permit from the agency according to chapter 7001 when all or
part of proposed or existing soil dispersal components are within one-half (1/
2) mile of each other and the combined flow from all proposed and existing SSTS
is greater than ten thousand (10,000) gallons per day. For proposed SSTS, the
flow must be determined according to 7081.0110. For existing SSTS, the flow is
determined by the greater of the average maximum seven (7) day measured flow or
flow amounts according to part 7081.0110. The highest calculated value of the
various methods in table I under part 7081.0130, subpart 1, must be used to
make this determination, with no reduction allowed. An SDS permit is not
required if a factor of safety is added to the design flow that results in a
design flow that is in excess of the SDS permit threshold. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-
2015)
9-8-9: LIABILITY:
The city's involvement in administration of this chapter does not create a
special duty to any person and, further liability or responsibility shall not
be imposed upon the city's or any of its officials, employees, or other
contract agents, for damage resulting from the defective construction,
operation, or abandonment of any on site or cluster SSTS regulated under this
chapter or by reason of any standards, requirements, or inspections authorized
by this chapter hereunder. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-10: ALL SSTS:
Except as explicitly set forth in section
9-8-11 of this chapter, all provisions of this chapter shall apply to any SSTS
regardless of the date it was originally permitted. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-11: SSTS ON LOTS CREATED AFTER JANUARY 23, 1996:
All lots created after January 23, 1996, must have a minimum of two (2) soil
treatment and dispersal areas that can support type 1 systems as defined by
Minnesota rule 7080.2200. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-12: UPGRADE, REPAIR, REPLACEMENT AND ABANDONMENT:
   A.   SSTS Capacity Expansions: Expansion of an existing SSTS must include
any system upgrades that are necessary to bring the entire system into
compliance with the prevailing provisions of this chapter at the time of the
expansion.
   B.   Bedroom Addition: Any addition to a structure that includes bedroom(s)
that require a construction permit from the city shall require that the SSTS
meet the required design flow according to Minnesota rule 7080.1860 or be
upgraded to meet class I sizing for both the septic tanks and soil absorption
area. Any required upgrades shall be completed within two (2) years.
   C.   Failure To Protect Groundwater: An SSTS that is determined not to be
protective of groundwater in accordance with Minnesota rule 7080.1500, subp. 4
(B) shall be upgraded, repaired, replaced or abandoned by the owner in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter within ten (10) months upon
receipt of a notice of noncompliance and must meet class I sizing requirements
according to Minnesota rule 7080.1860.
   D.   Imminent Threat To Public Health Or Safety: An SSTS posing an imminent
threat to public health or safety shall be pumped within twenty four (24) hours
and managed as a holding tank in accordance with Minnesota rule 7080.1500,
subp. 4(A) and said SSTS shall be upgraded, repaired, replaced or abandoned by
the owner in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within ten (10)
months upon receipt of a notice of noncompliance and must meet class I sizing
requirements according to Minnesota rule 7080.1860.
   E.   Abandonment: Any SSTS, or any component thereof, which is no longer
intended to be used, must be abandoned in accordance with Minnesota rule
7080.2500. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-13: SSTS IN FLOODPLAINS:
SSTS shall not be located in a floodway, floodplain or flood fringe. (Ord.
2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-14: CLASS V INJECTION WELLS:
All owners of new or replacement SSTS that are considered to be class V
injection wells, as defined in the code of federal regulations, title 40, part
144, are required by the federal government to submit a UIC class 5 inventory
form to the environmental protection agency as described in 40 CFR part 144.
Further, owners are required to identify all class V injection wells in
property transfer disclosures. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-15: SSTS PRACTITIONER LICENSING:
   A.   No person shall engage in site evaluation, inspection, design,
installation, construction, alteration, extension, repair, maintenance, or
pumping of SSTS without an appropriate and valid license issued by MPCA in
accordance with Minnesota rules chapter 7083 except as exempted in rule
7083.0700.
   B.   An MPCA license is not required of an individual who is constructing an
SSTS on land that is owned by the individual and functions solely as a dwelling
for that individual pursuant to Minnesota rule 7083.0700. Installation of the
system shall be based upon a design by a licensed designer. The system shall be
inspected before it is covered and a twenty four (24) hour notification to the
department for inspection is required. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-16: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Occupancy Or Use Of A Building Without A Compliant SSTS: It is unlawful
for any person to maintain, occupy, or use any building intended for habitation
or that contains plumbing fixtures that is not provided with a wastewater
treatment system or that disposes of wastewater in a manner that does not
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Sewage Discharge To Ground Surface Or Surface Water: It is unlawful for
any person to construct, maintain, or use any SSTS system regulated under this
chapter that results in raw or partially treated wastewater seeping to the
ground surface or flowing into any surface water. Any surface discharging
system must be permitted under the national pollutant discharge elimination
system program by the MPCA.
   C.   Sewage Discharge To A Well Or Boring: It is unlawful for any person to
discharge raw or treated wastewater into any well or boring as described in
Minnesota rule 4725.2050, or any other excavation in the ground that is not in
compliance with this chapter.
   D.   Discharge Of Hazardous Or Deleterious Materials: It is unlawful for any
person to discharge into any treatment system regulated under this chapter any
hazardous or deleterious material that adversely affects the treatment or
dispersal performance of the system or groundwater quality. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-
20-2015)
9-8-17: ALTERNATIVE LOCAL STANDARDS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   A.   Adoption Of Rule By Reference:
      1.   The city hereby adopts by reference the provisions of Minnesota
rules chapters 7080 through 7083 in their entirety except as referenced under
subsection B of this section, except as otherwise expressly modified by this
chapter.
      2.   When "2006 version of Minnesota rules chapter 7080" is utilized, the
reference is to the rules effective April 3, 2006, otherwise the city is
referencing the current rules in effect.
      3.   All new construction or replacement of SSTS shall employ sewage
tanks, distribution media and treatment products which have been registered by
the Minnesota pollution control agency.
   B.   Alternative Local Standards For New And Existing SSTS: The city hereby
adopts the 2006 version of Minnesota rules chapter 7080 for all new and
existing residential type I, type II and type III SSTS and SSTS that serve any
food, beverage and lodging establishment under two thousand five hundred
(2,500) gallons per day provided the effluent discharge does not exceed the
standards in Minnesota rule 7080.2150, subp. 3(K). (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-18: DIFFERENCES IN STANDARDS:
   A.   List Of Different Adopted Standards:
      1.   Any new ISTS must be constructed in the yard adjacent to the street
or in an area that is most likely where city sewer will be installed in the
future to serve the lot and be connected to the home with a schedule 40, four
inch (4") pipe. However, an ISTS may be installed in an alternate yard if all
the following are met:
         a.   A separate four inch (4") schedule 40 pipe must extend from
within six inches (6") of the base of the soil stack to twenty feet (20') past
the front of the house.
         b.   The concrete around the base of the stack must be installed to
provide access to the connection when the conversion is needed.
         c.   The extension pipe must be capped at both ends to prevent debris
from collecting in the pipe and a cleanout must be provided on the exterior
within five feet (5') of the house.
         d.   The installation of this pipe must be according to MN4715, the
plumbing code.
      2.   At least one cleanout at or above finished grade shall be installed
between the structure and the septic tank with additional cleanouts at
intervals not more than one hundred feet (100').
      3.   Class I sizing is required on all new construction. "New
construction" will be defined as placement of a new structure or replacement
structure that is served by pressurized water.
      4.   Minimum septic tank sizing shall be one thousand five hundred
(1,500) gallons. This can be accomplished through a compartmentalized tank,
multiple tanks in series, or a single existing one thousand five hundred
(1,500) gallon tank with the use of an effluent filter for the last baffle. The
filter must be of such a design that when the filter is removed from the filter
housing, the flow of water leaving the tank is not allowed. The first tank or
compartment shall be no less than one thousand (1,000) gallons in size and
applies to new and replacement SSTS. Any additional septic tanks shall be a
minimum of one thousand (1,000) gallons. All other tank sizing shall follow
Minnesota rule 7080.1930.
      5.   Pump tank sizing shall follow Minnesota rule 7080.2100.
      6.   Soil pits shall be required during the construction inspection. The
soil pit shall be excavated at the time of the inspection. The soil pit shall
be dug by a backhoe or other acceptable method and be excavated to a depth that
will allow the verification of redoximorphic features and the three feet (3')
of vertical separation as required. Location of soil pits shall be adjacent to
the lowest trench or next to the down slope side of an elevated treatment area.
The pit shall not impact the hydraulic performance of the ISTS. A certificate
of installation will not be issued until the soils are verified.
      7.   All dwellings or buildings that contain plumbing fixtures shall meet
the required setbacks to the septic tank and soil absorption area. Accessory
structures, including, but not limited to, decks, screen decks, porches, sheds,
garages and pole buildings shall not be required to meet said setbacks provided
that the tank(s) can be maintained properly and that the structure does not
negatively impact the function of the system. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-19: COMPLIANCE CRITERIA FOR EXISTING SSTS:
For an SSTS built before April 1, 1996, and outside of areas designated as
"SWF", systems in shoreland areas, wellhead protection areas, or systems
serving food, beverage, or lodging establishments, there must be at least two
feet (2') of vertical separation between the bottom of the dispersal system and
seasonal saturation or bedrock. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-20: HOLDING TANKS:
Holding tanks may be allowed for the following applications: as replacements
for existing failing SSTS and SSTS that pose an imminent threat to public
health or safety, on lots with limitations that will not allow for the
installation of a type 1 SSTS or for uses that are seasonal or intermittent in
nature and will not use more than one hundred fifty (150) gallons of water per
day. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-21: STATE AGENCY VARIANCE REQUESTS:
Variances that pertain to the standards and requirements of the state of
Minnesota must be approved by the affected state agency pursuant to the
requirements of the state agency. No permits will be issued by the city until
all required state agency variances have been approved. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-
2015)
9-8-22: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   A construction permit is not required for minor repairs or
replacements of system components that do not alter the original function of
the system, change the treatment capacity of the system, change the location of
the system or otherwise change the original system design, layout or function.
Examples include, but are not limited to, pumps, baffles, and effluent filters.
      2.   All other work, such as new installation, replacement, modification,
alteration, or capacity changes will require a permit.
   B.   Permit Applications: Construction permit applications shall be made on
forms provided by the department and signed by the applicant or applicant's
agent, and must include the following information and documentation:
      1.   Applicant name, mailing address, telephone number, and e-mail
address.
      2.   Property identification number, property address and legal
description of property location.
      3.   Site evaluation report, as defined by section
9-8-17 of this chapter and Minnesota rules 7080 through 7083, and shall be made
on form provided by the department.
      4.   Design report, as defined by section
9-8-17 of this chapter and Minnesota rules 7080 through 7083, and shall be made
on form provided by the department.
      5.   A management plan, as defined by Minnesota rule 7082.0600.
   C.   Application Review And Response: The department shall review a permit
application and supporting documents according to this chapter.
   D.   Appeal: The applicant may appeal any decision of the department in
accordance with section
10-7-7 of this code.
   E.   Permit Expiration: A construction permit for a new SSTS is valid for a
period of no more than two (2) years from its date of issue. A construction
permit for the replacement of SSTS failing to protect groundwater is valid for
ten (10) months. A construction permit for the replacement of SSTS that are
imminent threats to public health is valid for ten (10) months. Satisfactory
completion of construction shall be determined by as built drawings and a
signed certification that the construction and installation of the system was
completed in reasonable conformance with the approved design documents by a
qualified employee of the department or a licensed inspection business, which
is authorized by the department and independent of the owner and the SSTS
installer.
   F.   Transferability: A construction permit may be transferred to a new
owner provided there are no proposed changes to the SSTS design.
   G.   Suspension Or Revocation: The department may suspend or revoke a
construction permit issued under this section for any false statements,
misrepresentations of facts on which the construction permit was issued, or
unauthorized changes to the system design that alter the original function of
the system, change the treatment capacity of the system, change the location of
the system, or otherwise change the original system design, layout, or
function. A notice of suspension or revocation and the reasons for the
suspension or revocation shall be conveyed in writing to the permit holder. If
suspended or revoked, installation or modification of a treatment system may
not commence or continue until a valid construction permit is obtained.
   H.   SSTS Assessment Requirements: For those SSTS without a management plan
or operating permit according to the provisions of this chapter, the following
provisions apply:
      1.   The owner of an ISTS or the owner's agent shall regularly, but in no
case less frequently than every three (3) years, assess whether sewage tanks
leak below the designed operating depth and whether sewage tank tops, riser
joints, and riser connections leak through visual evidence of major defects and
measure or remove the accumulations of scum, grease, and other floating
materials at the top of each septic tank and compartment, along with the
sludge, which consists of the solids denser than water.
      2.   All solids and liquids must be removed by pumping from all tanks or
compartments in which the top of the sludge layer is less than twelve inches
(12") from the bottom of the outlet baffle or transfer hole or whenever the
bottom of the scum layer is less than three inches (3") above the bottom of the
outlet baffle or transfer hole. Total sludge and scum volume must not be
greater than twenty five percent (25%) of the tank's liquid capacity. Removal
of accumulated sludge, scum, and liquids from septic tanks and pump tanks must
be through the maintenance hole. The removal of solids from any location other
than the maintenance hole is not a compliant method of solids removal from a
sewage tank, and this method does not fulfill the solids removal requirement of
this part or a management plan. Liquid and solids removal from cleanout pipes
is allowed for holding tanks. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-23: OPERATING PERMIT:
   A.   An operating permit shall be required for the following SSTS:
      1.   SSTS with high strength waste effluent standards that exceed
Minnesota rule 7080.2150, subp. 3(K);
      2.   Holding tanks;
      3.   SSTS serving three (3) or more connections;
      4.   Type 4 and type 5 SSTS;
      5.   SSTS that exceed a daily flow of two thousand five hundred (2,500)
gallons per day; or
      6.   MSTS designed under Minnesota rules chapter 7081.
   B.   Operating permits shall be a signed agreement between the department
and the property owner and shall include monitoring, performance, mitigation,
and reporting requirements.
   C.   A valid operating permit shall be considered a certificate of
compliance if that system is in compliance with the requirements of the
operating permit.
   D.   Owners of holding tanks shall provide the department upon request a
copy of a valid monitoring and disposal contract executed between the owner and
a licensed maintenance business, which guarantees the removal of the holding
tank contents in a timely manner and prevents an illegal discharge in
accordance with Minnesota rule 7082.0100, subp. 3(G). This requirement is
waived if the owner is a farmer who is exempt from licensing under Minnesota
statutes, section 115.56, subd. 2(b)(3).
   E.   Operating permits shall be valid for the specific term stated on the
permit as determined by the department.
   F.   An operating permit must be renewed prior to its expiration. If not
renewed, the department may require the system to be removed from service or
operated as a holding tank until the permit is renewed. If not renewed within
ninety (90) calendar days of the expiration date, the department may require
that the system be abandoned in accordance with section
9-8-12 of this chapter.
   G.   Operating permits do not transfer to new property owners. New owners
shall apply for an operating permit in accordance with this section. The
department shall not terminate the current permit until ninety (90) calendar
days after the date of sale unless an imminent threat to public health and
safety exists. To consider the new owner's application, the department may
require a performance inspection of the treatment system certified by a
licensed inspector or qualified employee.
   H.   A report shall be prepared and certified by the licensed inspection
business or licensed service provider. The report shall be submitted to the
department on a form provided by the department on or before the compliance
reporting date stipulated in the operating permit as required. The report shall
contain a description of all maintenance and servicing activities performed
since the last compliance monitoring report as described in the operating
permit.
   I.   The department may suspend or revoke any operating permit issued under
this section for any false statements or misrepresentations of facts on which
the operating permit was issued.
   J.   If suspended or revoked, the department may require that the treatment
system be removed from service, operated as a holding tank, or abandoned.
   K.   At the department's sole discretion, the operating permit may be
reinstated or renewed upon the owner taking appropriate corrective actions.
(Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-24: COMPLIANCE INSPECTION PROGRAM:
   A.   Department Responsibility: It is the responsibility of the department,
or its agent, to perform installation inspections of new SSTS or upgrades of
SSTS to assure that the requirements of this chapter are met.
      1.   All compliance inspections must be performed and signed by licensed
inspection businesses or qualified employees certified as inspectors.
      2.   The department shall be given access to enter a property at any
reasonable time to inspect and/or monitor the SSTS system. As used in this
paragraph, "property" does not include a residence or private building.
      3.   No person shall hinder or otherwise interfere with the department's
employees in the performance of their duties and responsibilities pursuant to
this chapter. Refusal to allow reasonable access to the property by the
department shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
      4.   A signed winter agreement may be accepted in lieu of a compliance
inspection for property transfers, permit applications and designs to the
department between November 1 and April 30, at the department's sole
discretion, provided the required information is submitted to the department by
June 1 of the subsequent year. Failure to fulfill all of the obligations of the
winter agreement shall be a violation of this chapter.
   B.   New Construction Or Replacement:
      1.   New installation inspections must be performed on new or replacement
SSTS to determine compliance with Minnesota rules, chapters 7080 or 7081,
respectively, according to this section. SSTS found to be noncompliant with
other applicable requirements must be repaired or replaced according to the
department's requirements.
      2.   It is the responsibility of the SSTS owner or the owner's agent to
notify the department twenty four (24) hours prior to the installation
inspection.
      3.   If the installer provides proper notice and the department does not
provide an inspection within one hour after an inspection time was set, the
installer may complete the construction per the following: The installer shall
submit photographs of the entire uncovered system and an as built drawing with
a certified statement that the installation of the SSTS met the appropriate
standards of this chapter within five (5) working days of the installation.
      4.   A certificate of installation for new SSTS construction or
replacement shall be issued by the department within thirty (30) days of
inspection if the department has reasonable assurance that the system was built
in accordance with the applicable requirements as specified in the construction
permit.
      5.   The certificate of installation must include a certified statement
by the certified inspector or qualified employee who conducted the inspection
that the SSTS is or is not in compliance with this chapter's requirements. If
the SSTS is determined not to be in compliance with the applicable
requirements, a notice of noncompliance must be issued to the owner which
includes a statement specifying those chapter provisions with which the SSTS
does not comply.
      6.   No SSTS shall be placed into operation until a valid certificate of
installation has been issued.
      7.   Certificates of installation for new construction or replacement
shall remain valid for five (5) years from the date of issue unless the
department finds evidence of noncompliance.
   C.   Existing Systems:
      1.   Compliance inspections shall be required when any of the following
conditions occur:
         a.   Any construction work (except for residential reroofing,
residing, window replacement/installation, hot water heater replacements,
heating/venting/air conditioning HVAC replacement, electrical work, and
commercial and industrial maintenance work as determined by the city) and the
certificate of installation is more than five (5) years old or the certificate
of compliance is more than three (3) years old.
         b.   Within ninety (90) days of conveyance of any real property and
the certificate of installation is more than five (5) years old or the
certificate of compliance is more than three (3) years old.
         c.   Any time there is a change in use of the property being served by
an existing SSTS which may impact the performance of the system.
         d.   At any time as required by this chapter or the department deems
appropriate such as upon receipt of a complaint or other notice of a system
malfunction.
      2.   Compliance inspections of existing SSTS shall be reported on the
inspection report forms provided by MPCA. The following conditions must be
assessed, or verified:
         a.   Watertightness assessment of all treatment tanks including a
leakage report;
         b.   Vertical separation distance between the bottom of the soil
treatment and dispersal system and the periodically saturated soil or bedrock
including a vertical soils separation verification report unless soils have
been verified according to Minnesota rule 7082.0700, subpart 4B.
         c.   Sewage backup, surface seepage or surface discharge including a
hydraulic function report.
      3.   The certificate of compliance must include a certified statement by
a qualified employee or licensed inspection business, indicating whether the
SSTS is in compliance with the requirements of this chapter. If the SSTS is
determined not to be in compliance with the applicable requirements, a notice
of noncompliance must include a statement specifying those chapter provisions
with which the SSTS does not comply. A construction permit application must be
submitted to the department if the required corrective action is not a minor
repair.
      4.   The certificate of compliance or notice of noncompliance must be
submitted to the department no later than fifteen (15) calendar days after the
date the inspection was performed.
      5.   Certificates of compliance for existing SSTS shall remain valid for
three (3) years from the date of issue unless the department finds evidence of
noncompliance.
   D.   Transfer Of Property:
      1.   Any property on which an SSTS is located shall not be transferred or
sold unless the parties to the transaction have complied with one of the
following:
         a.   A current certificate of compliance, as provided by subsection C
of this section.
         b.   A winter agreement, as provided by subsection A of this section.
         c.   In the event the seller does not provide a certificate of
compliance or compliant operating permit, the seller and buyer may establish a
written agreement or contract to repair, replace or upgrade the existing SSTS
according to the terms of this chapter.
         d.   The buyer may accept total responsibility of the existing SSTS
and be responsible for the necessary upgrading. In the absence of a written
agreement according to subsection D1c of this section, the buyer shall be
responsible for the necessary upgrading of said SSTS.
   E.   Commercial SSTS:
      1.   New Commercial: New commercially developed properties shall require
city services and shall not operate with an SSTS.
      2.   Existing Commercial SSTS:
         a.   Septic tank effluent testing for carbonaceous biochemical oxygen
demand (CBOD), biological oxygen demand (BOD), total suspended solids (TSS),
nitrogen and oil/grease combination is mandatory for all SSTS that serve
commercial establishments that serve food and beverages or have a flow that
exceeds one thousand (1,000) gallons per day as part of any compliance
inspection.
         b.   Effluent testing shall not be required for commercial SSTS that
have a current operating permit as of the date this chapter is effective. If
all provisions of the operating permit are met, the SSTS shall be considered to
be in compliance.
         c.   An SSTS with effluent testing that does not meet the standards in
the Minnesota rule 7080.2150, subpart 3(K) shall be upgraded within three (3)
years to meet said standards and be placed on an operating permit as provided
in this chapter.
   F.   Vertical Separation Reduction: Minnesota rule 7080.1500, subp. 4(D) is
hereby adopted allowing a fifteen percent (15%) reduction in vertical
separation distance for settling of sand or soil, normal variation of
measurements and interpretations of the limiting layer for existing SSTS. This
provision does not apply to section
9-8-19 of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-25: ENFORCEMENT:
Enforcement of this chapter shall follow the standards in section
9-1-2 of this title. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-26: STATE NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION:
The department shall notify the MPCA of any inspection, installation, design,
construction, alteration or repair of an SSTS by a licensed/certified person or
any septage removal by a licensed maintainer that is performed in violation of
the provisions of this chapter. The department shall also notify the MPCA of
any discovered straight pipes pursuant to Minnesota statutes 115.55 subdivision
11. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-27: RECORDKEEPING:
The city shall maintain a current record of all permitted systems. The record
shall contain all permit applications, issued permits, fees assessed, variance
requests, certificates of compliance, notices of noncompliance, enforcement
proceedings, site evaluation reports, design reports, record drawings,
management plans, maintenance reports, operating permits, an annual list of all
sewage tanks installed in the city sorted by licensed installation businesses,
and other records the city deems relevant to a particular system. (Ord. 2015-
04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-28: ANNUAL REPORT:
The department shall provide an annual report of SSTS permitting activities to
MPCA no later than February 1 for the previous calendar year. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-
20-2015)
9-8-29: FEES:
From time to time, the city shall establish fees for activities undertaken by
the department pursuant to the city's adopted fee schedule. Fees shall be due
and payable at a time and in a manner to be determined by the department. (Ord.
2015-04, 1-20-2015)
9-8-30: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
Resolution of disputes between SSTS certified individuals regarding conflicting
compliance inspections, determination of seasonally saturation of soils and
other technical issues shall follow Minnesota rule 7082.0700, subp. 5. (Ord.
2015-04, 1-20-2015)
CHAPTER 9
INDIVIDUAL WELL STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Construction Standards
9-9-1: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   The construction and design of individual wells must comply with those
standards set forth in Minnesota rules chapter 4725, as amended.
   B.   In addition, provisions must be made to allow the future connection of
any new well to city water when it is installed to serve the lot by a pipe at
least one hundred sixty (160) pounds per square inch (psi) and meets MN4715,
the state of Minnesota plumbing code. This may be achieved by one of the
following:
      1.   Installing a four inch (4") sleeve from a point within the house to
at least twenty feet (20') past the exterior wall into the yard adjacent to the
street or area that is most likely where city water will be installed in the
future to serve the lot, or
      2.   Providing a main water line pipe having the ability to handle at
least one hundred sixty (160) psi that extends at least twenty feet (20') from
the exterior foundation wall into the yard adjacent to the street or area that
is most likely where city water will be installed in the future to serve the
lot connected to the new well, or
      3.   Installing a single water pipe having the ability to handle at least
one hundred sixty (160) psi from a point within the interior of the structure
to at least twenty feet (20') past the exterior wall. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Intent And Purpose
10-1-3: Rules, Scope And Interpretation
10-1-4: Separability
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the BAXTER ZONING
ORDINANCE, except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as this title.
(Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
10-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This title is enacted for the following purposes:
   A.   To promote the general public health, safety, comfort and general
welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
   B.   To promote the character of and preserve and enhance the properties and
areas within the city including wetlands, ponds and marshes.
   C.   To divide the city into zones or districts on the basis of the use,
location, construction, reconstruction and alteration of land and structures
for residence, business, industrial, and public purposes.
   D.   To provide adequate light, air, privacy, and safety.
   E.   To prevent the overcrowding of land by undue concentrations of
population and facilities.
   F.   To promote the proper use of land and structure.
   G.   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings, structures and land
shall conform for the benefit of all.
   H.   To prohibit the use of buildings, structures, and lands that are
incompatible with the intended use or development of lands within the specified
zones.
   I.   To promote the safe and efficient movement of people and goods.
   J.   To facilitate the provisions of public services.
   K.   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public health
and welfare by providing for the off street parking of vehicles and vehicle
loading areas.
   L.   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes, offensive noise,
vibration, dust, odor, glare, hazardous waste, pollution and hazards in the
interest of public health, comfort and general welfare.
   M.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies provided for herein.
   N.   To prescribe penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
title or any amendment thereto. (Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
10-1-3: RULES, SCOPE AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Scope: From and after the effective date hereof, the use of all land
and every structure, building or portion of a building erected, altered with
respect to area, added to or relocated, and every use accessory thereto in the
city shall be in conformity with the provisions of this title. Any existing
structure and any use of land not in conformity with the regulations herein
prescribed shall be regarded as a nonconforming use or structure.
   B.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This title does not abrogate any
easement, covenant or any other private agreement where such is legally
enforceable; provided, that where the regulations of this title are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such easements,
covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this title shall
govern.
   C.   Interpretation: In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
title, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare. Where the
provisions of this title impose greater restrictions than those of any statute,
other ordinance or regulation, the provisions of this title shall be
controlling. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance or regulation
impose greater restrictions than this title, the provisions of such statute,
other ordinance or regulation shall be controlling. (Ord. 2006-21, 8-1-2006)
   D.   Rules:
      1.   Building Permit Required: No person shall erect, alter, wreck, or
move any building or part thereof without first securing a building permit.
Application for a building permit shall be made to the city on forms furnished
by the city. Each application for a permit to construct, expand, or alter a
building shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn to scale showing the
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size and location of all existing
and proposed buildings and accessory buildings and evidence of either a
complying individual sewer treatment system (ISTS) per title 9, chapter 8 of
this code or connected to a city system. Exceptions to the ISTS compliance
requirement shall be made for the following building permits:
         a.   Residential reroofing, re-siding, window replacement/
installation, hot water heater replacements, heating/venting/air conditioning
(HVAC) replacement, and electrical work.
         b.   Commercial and industrial maintenance work as determined by the
city.
      2.   Certificate Of Survey Required: A certificate of survey or
registered land survey showing property boundaries/monuments in the field, all
existing and proposed structures, significant features, etc., shall accompany a
building permit application if the property consists of any of the following:
         a.   The lot is not platted or is described by metes and bounds.
         b.   The land is composed of partial lots.
         c.   The lot has or had an existing structure that is to be
redeveloped.
         d.   The lot/structure is in a plat that is older than five (5) years
unless deemed unnecessary by the city.
      3.   Minor Additions: If the application is for an alteration that does
not expand the bulk of the building or is for a minor addition that is well
within the setback requirements, some or all of the aforementioned requirements
may be waived by the city.
      4.   Other Information: Applications for any kind of building permit
shall contain such other information as may be deemed necessary for the proper
enforcement of this title. For some applications, the city may require the
submission of a boundary survey with topographic data prepared by a registered
land surveyor or engineer where drainage, change in grade, distance between
existing and/or proposed structures, or proximity to an environmentally
sensitive area is a concern. In this case, existing and proposed grades shall
be provided at one foot (1') contours unless otherwise allowed by the city. The
city will review and approve existing and proposed grades to prevent drainage
and other impacts on public streets, adjacent properties and environmentally
sensitive areas.
      5.   Conformity Required: No structure shall be erected, converted,
enlarged, reconstructed or altered, and no structure or land shall be used for
any purpose or in any manner which is not in conformity with the provisions of
this title. For the new construction of structures with common walls located on
a property line, once construction of the foundation has been completed,
verification by a registered land surveyor of the location of the foundation or
other confirmation of the foundation's accuracy acceptable to the city shall be
required before the framing of the structure is begun.
      6.   Use Prohibited As Dwelling: No cellar, garage, tent, trailer,
basement with unfinished structure above, or accessory building shall at any
time be used as a dwelling unit unless otherwise authorized in subsection 10-5-
6B of this title. The basement portion of a finished home may be used for
normal living, eating and sleeping purposes provided it complies with the
habitable space requirements of the building code, and is approved by the city.
      7.   Moving Or Relocating Buildings:
         a.   Conditional Use Permit Required; Exceptions: A conditional use
permit is required for all building moving when the destination is in the city,
except for:
            (1)   Premanufactured or modular homes moved onto a vacant lot of
record.
            (2)   Accessory buildings less than three hundred (300) square feet
where allowed by this title.
            (3)   Agricultural buildings, when permitted by this title.
            (4)   Temporary structure to be located on a lot for eighteen (18)
months or less.
         b.   State License Required: No person shall move, remove, raise or
hold up any building within the limits of the city without a license to do so
from the state.
         c.   Conditional Use Permit:
            (1)   The conditional use is subject to the conditions outlined in
section
10-7-4, "Conditional Use Permit", of this title and the additional standards
and criteria listed in this section.
               (A)   Application: The conditional use permit application shall
include all of the materials outlined in section
10-7-4 of this title and the following additional information:
(i) A detailed description of the building proposed to be moved including
dimensions, height to peak/number of stories, year built, type of siding,
roofing, windows, number of units, etc.
(ii) The construction material of the building, number of rooms, condition of
exterior and interior, and photographs showing the following: a) the structure
to be moved from at least two (2) different angles, b) the lot on which the
structure is to be located, c) adjacent lots and nearest existing structures.
(iii) A boundary survey with topographic data prepared by a registered land
surveyor or engineer showing the proposed location of the building, proposed
grading at one foot (1') contours, scaled drawing showing the front building
elevation together with nearest adjacent structures, proposed first floor
elevation and finished grade in relation to adjacent structures and grade.
(iv) The address of building's origin.
(v) The address of building's destination.
(vi) The highways, streets, alleys, and other rights of way over, along or
across which the building is proposed to be moved.
(vii) The proposed moving date and hours. No movement is allowed on federal
holidays or holiday weekends.
(viii) Proof of a building mover license/bond as issued by the state in
conformity with Minnesota statutes section 221.81.
(ix) Utilities and government agencies must be notified for the disconnection
of cable, telephone, sewer, water, and gas services before a permit will be
issued.
(x) Building destination within city limits: The structure must be inspected
and approved by a city building inspector, a site plan submitted, and building
permit issued.
(xi) Building destination outside city limits: The foundation must be inspected
and a demolition permit issued.
(xii) Proof of insurance must be required.
(xiii) Any additional information that the city finds necessary to make a fair
determination of whether a permit should be issued.
               (B)   Performance Criteria:
(i) The building to be moved must comply in all respects with the building code
and other applicable ordinances. If the existing building does not comply, the
person proposing to move the building shall present to the city complete and
detailed plans showing changes which will be made in order to attain compliance
with said ordinances. In the event that such changes are required, a city
moving permit shall not be issued until the owner has agreed in writing to
complete the necessary changes within a period of six (6) months, the city has
approved the plan, the building permit fee has been paid, the building permit
has been issued and a security acceptable to the city equal to the cost of said
proposed work as approved by the city has been provided to the city
guaranteeing completion of said changes.
(ii) The architecture of the building to be moved must be compatible in nature
to the buildings in the immediate area. Architectural elements considered shall
include, but are not limited to, siding, roofing, design/style and age.
(iii) The building to be moved, after being so moved, must be worth at least
seventy five percent (75%) of the cost of a similar new building, as determined
by the city.
(iv) Prior to issuance of the moving permit, the city shall remove the water
meter. Also, prior to issuance of the moving permit, all sewer and water
connections shall be plugged or disconnected at the main or as determined by
the city and any known cesspools, septic tanks and cisterns shall be removed
and filled with appropriate granular material.
         d.   City Moving Permit Required: A city moving permit is required for
a building move if any of the following apply:
            (1)   The destination is in the city.
            (2)   The origin is in the city.
            (3)   Both the origin and destination are in the city.
            (4)   The move is a pass-through building move in which city rights
of way or other public nonroadway property is used for the route.
         e.   Exemptions To City Moving Permit: No city moving permit is
required for accessory structures that are one hundred twenty (120) square feet
or less and ten feet (10') wide or less.
         f.   Performance Requirements For All Permits: Any moving permit from
the city shall comply with the following:
            (1)   Street Occupancy Period: Remove the building from the city
streets after one day of occupancy, unless the city grants an extension.
            (2)   Display Lights And Barricades: Cause red lights to be
displayed between sunset and sunrise on every side of the building while it is
located on a street in such manner as to warn the public of the obstruction.
Erect and maintain barricades in accordance with the "Minnesota Manual On
Uniform Traffic Control Devices" across the street in such manner as to protect
the public from damage or injury. If the house mover is not able to yield the
right of way to oncoming traffic or if vehicle/load encroaches into oncoming
traffic lane or if traffic must be directed or controlled, a city police escort
may be required and shall be operated per Minnesota statutes section 169.20,
subdivision 5. Wide load signs and proper flagging (lighting at night) will be
required for all oversize loads. Night moves shall be done in the early morning
hours from one o'clock (1:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Warning lights
with open flame shall not be used.
            (3)   Pay Expenses Of Officer: Employ a professional mover service
and/or pay the expense of a traffic officer ordered by the city to accompany
the movement of the building to protect the public from injury. Requests for
city police escorts must be submitted at least ten (10) working days prior to
the move by the building mover.
            (4)   Notify Of Damage: Notify the city in writing of any and all
damages done to property belonging to the city or any public utility property
within twenty four (24) hours after the damage or injury has occurred.
            (5)   Pay Additional Fees: In addition to all other required fees,
pay an hourly fee for each city inspector for the time spent in connection with
the inspection.
            (6)   Notify Affected Persons Of Movement: In the manner directed
by staff, and at the applicant's expense, notify the Baxter police department
and all persons in the path of the building being moved of when, where and how
the building is to be moved.
            (7)   Payment Of Taxes: It is unlawful to move any building if the
point of origin and/or destination is within the city, regardless of the route
of movement, without having paid in full all real and personal property taxes,
special assessments, and municipal utility charges due on the premises of
origin, and filing written proof of such payment with the city.
         g.   Removal Date And Payment Of Fees:
            (1)   Removal Date: The permit shall specify a reasonable date
certain by which the building shall be located at its final destination, if in
the city, or completely removed from the city limits. Buildings that have not
been completely located or removed by the removal date shall be subject to a
fee in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per calendar day for
payment of the expense of a traffic officer and inspector, as provided in
subsections D7f(3) and D7f(5) of this section. The city may grant an extension
to the location or removal date, but it is not obligated to do so.
            (2)   Payment Of Fees: Fees incurred as provided in subsection D7f
of this section shall be invoiced to the permit holder by the city. In the
event payment of said fees is not received, the city shall revoke any current
permits for that same permit holder and the city shall notify the Minnesota
department of transportation that the license holder has failed to comply with
the requirements of the local moving permit.
         h.   Violations: No person who has had a permit revoked by the city
shall receive another moving permit for a period of one year. Further, as
provided in section
9-1-4 of this code, violation of the requirements of any permit issued pursuant
to this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
      8.   Nonconforming Uses, Lots, Structures And Other Site Improvements:
         a.   Generally: It is the purpose of this subsection to provide for
the regulation of existing uses, lots and structures and other improvements of
land that do not conform to the requirements of the district in which they are
located. Any structure or use lawfully existing upon the effective date of this
code may be continued at the size and in the manner of operation existing upon
such date except as hereinafter specified, or subsequently amended. This
subsection D8 does not govern nonconforming signs.
         b.   Nonconforming Uses:
            (1)   Expansion: A nonconforming use shall not be enlarged, moved,
or extended to occupy a greater area of land without a variance. Nonconforming
single-family dwelling uses may be enlarged as long as all expansions meet any
applicable setbacks of that district.
            (2)   Continuation: A nonconforming use may be continued through
repair, replacement, restoration, or maintenance. When any nonconforming use
has been changed to a conforming use, it loses any nonconforming status and
thus may not return to a nonconforming use.
            (3)   Reduction Of Nonconformity: A nonconforming use may be
changed to lessen the nonconformity of that use.
            (4)   Discontinuance: A nonconforming use may not be resumed if
normal operation of the use has been discontinued, or if a nonconforming
building has been removed and not replaced, for a period of twelve (12) or more
months. Time will be calculated as beginning on the day following the last day
in which the use was in normal operation and will run continuously thereafter.
Following the expiration of twelve (12) months, only uses that are permitted by
this title are allowed to be established.
            (5)   Removal/Destruction: Removal or destruction of a
nonconforming use to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its
estimated market value by fire or other peril, excluding land value as
determined by the county assessor, terminates the right to continue or replace
any nonconforming use, except if a valid and complete building permit
application has been submitted to the city within one hundred eighty (180) days
after the property was removed or destroyed.
            (6)   Replacement: Replacement, reconstruction, or restoration of a
lawful nonconforming use may occur without any land use approval from the city
provided that: a) the resulting use does not create any new adverse impacts on
adjacent property and b) matches exactly the conditions that existed before the
work was undertaken or before the use was damaged or destroyed. Work that would
not meet this requirement may not be undertaken unless the appropriate approval
required below has been granted for the property. Conditions may be imposed to
protect the public health, safety, or welfare, and to mitigate any newly
created impacts on adjacent property.
            (7)   City Approval Only If Adverse Effects: If replacement,
reconstruction, or restoration of a lawful nonconforming use is allowed, it may
occur without any land use approval from the city if the resulting use does not
create any new adverse impacts on adjacent property and matches exactly the
conditions that existed before the work was undertaken or before the use was
damaged or destroyed, except for internal repairs and improved materials used
to replace roof surfaces, siding, windows, doors, and similar components. Work
that would not meet this requirement may not be undertaken unless the
appropriate approval required below has been granted for the property. The city
may impose conditions in its approval to protect the public health, safety, or
welfare, and to mitigate any newly created impacts on adjacent property.
         c.   Nonconforming Lots:
            (1)   Vacant Nonshore Land Lots: A vacant nonconforming lot may be
allowed as a buildable lot provided that all the following conditions are met:
               (A)   It is a lot of record;
               (B)   The proposed structure will meet all setback requirements
which currently apply to the lot and the lot is at least seventy percent (70%)
of the required size and dimension of the applicable zoning district;
               (C)   All other applicable requirements of this chapter are met;
               (D)   The lot has adequate access as solely determined by the
city; and
               (E)   Said lot is not in the shore land overlay district.
            (2)   Vacant Shore Land Lots: For nonconforming lots within the
shore land overlay district, all of the above rules apply but if the lot is
riparian, no improvements or buildings may be constructed without a conditional
use permit. No conditional use permit shall be issued until the city determines
how to protect the lake by mitigating erosion and stormwater drainage during
and after construction, visual impacts or any other impact caused by
construction upon a nonconforming riparian lot.
In addition, nonconforming riparian lots shall be buildable only if no owner of
any abutting lot has an ownership interest in the nonconforming lot through any
relationship of blood, marriage or business with any owner of the nonconforming
lot at or before the time of application. If the adjacent lot is owned in this
manner, both lots shall be considered one lot for zoning purposes.
            (3)   Accessory Structures: For single-family dwellings only,
nonconforming nonriparian lots containing a conforming principal structure and
use may add a permitted accessory structure provided that the accessory
structure will meet all minimum setbacks, coverage, and other requirements of
this title. A conditional use permit shall be required to add an accessory
structure on nonconforming riparian lots after it is determined how to mitigate
any impacts from the existing and proposed development.
            (4)   Additions To Single-Family Dwellings On Nonconforming Lots:
For single-family dwellings only, additions to conforming principal or
accessory structures and uses located on nonconforming nonriparian lots may be
permitted provided that any such addition will meet all minimum setback
requirements of this title. A conditional use permit shall be required for
additions to principal or accessory structures on nonconforming riparian lots
after it is determined how to mitigate any impacts from the existing and
proposed development.
            (5)   Reduction Of Nonconformity: The city may allow a replat of an
existing nonconforming lot that results in a reduction of the nonconformity.
         d.   Nonconforming Structures:
            (1)   Expansion: Nonconforming principal structures shall not be
enlarged without a variance unless the structure is a single- family dwelling.
If the structure is a single-family dwelling on a nonriparian lot, it may be
enlarged as long as the new construction does not increase the nonconformity.
For example, if the structure is nonconforming since it is too close to the
front yard setback, the owner may add on to the back of the home as long as it
meets the rear yard setback, without any variance or other city zoning
approval. However, additions that make it closer to said front yard setback
shall require a variance, unless said addition complies with section
10-4-2 of this title.
No nonconforming structure on a riparian lot shall be expanded without a
conditional use permit. A conditional use permit shall not be issued until the
city determines how to protect the lake by mitigating any erosion and
stormwater drainage both during and after construction, visual impacts from
increased density or any other impact caused by construction.
            (2)   Continuation: A nonconforming structure may be used and
continued, including through repair, replacement, restoration, or maintenance,
but not including expansion, only in compliance with the provisions of this
title.
            (3)   Moving: If a nonconforming structure is moved for any
distance whatsoever, it shall conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
            (4)   Reconstruction: Replacement, reconstruction, restoration or
repair to a nonconforming structure shall be permitted.
            (5)   Safe Condition: Nothing in this subsection D8 shall prevent
the necessary repairs to a structure so it is in a safe condition after the
structure is declared unsafe by the building official, provided that a building
permit has been applied for within one hundred eighty (180) days of when the
property is declared unsafe.
            (6)   String Rule: If adjacent structures to a proposed new
structure encroach upon a front setback, the front setback of a new structure
may conform to the "string rule" rather than the prevailing setback in that
district. The "string rule" is defined as where principal structures exist
immediately on both sides of a proposed building site, structural setbacks may
be reduced to a distance equaling the average front yard setback of existing
principal structures adjacent to the lot fronting on the same street. The
zoning administrator shall approve the reduced setback if there is compliance
with this chapter and all other applicable ordinances. However, in no case
shall improvements or buildings be allowed in the shore impact zone or the
bluff impact zone. Furthermore, structures shall not be constructed too close
to any public right of way, as solely determined by the zoning administrator.
            (7)   Architectural Review: Any additions or expansions to any
existing building may trigger the architectural performance rules as set forth
in section
10-4-10 of this title.
            (8)   Lawful Nonconforming Accessory Structure: A lawful
nonconforming accessory structure may not be expanded without a variance except
a nonconforming accessory structure in an R-1 district may be expanded to
increase the usability provided that the entire expansion meets the current
zoning regulations and the structure is accessory to a single-family dwelling.
If the nonconforming structure is on a riparian shore land lot, a conditional
use permit shall be required and measures taken to mitigate any impacts on the
water body.
            (9)   Decks: Lawful nonconforming single-family dwellings in R-
1 districts, including riparian shore land lots, may be expanded by adding a
deck provided that the deck meets the current district setbacks and information
deemed necessary by the city such as a certificate of survey is provided to
determine compliance.
         e.   Nonconforming Outside Improvements:
            (1)   Nonconforming outside improvements may continue to serve a
principal use so long as the principal use or structure is not expanded or
intensified. Whenever a principal use or structure is expanded or intensified
to the extent that a building permit is required, the outside improvements
shall be brought into compliance with the appropriate landscaping ordinances,
parking ordinances, and other requirements set forth in this title unless a
variance is granted by the city council.
            (2)   When expansion of an existing site improvement is required,
the newly constructed portion of the site improvement shall meet all of the
requirements of this title.
      9.   Miscellaneous Rules:
         a.   Subdivisions: All subdivisions shall conform to, and be in
harmony with, the comprehensive plan.
         b.   Official Monuments, Bench Marks, Triangulation Stations: All
international, federal, state, county and other official monuments, bench
marks, triangulation points, and stations shall be preserved in their precise
locations; and it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that
these markers are maintained in good condition during and following
construction and development. All section, quarter section and sixteenth
section corners shall be duly described and tied.
         c.   Annexations: Areas annexed to the city shall be placed in the
zoning district closest to the definition of their existing zoning, pending
study of the area by the long range planning commission. The long range
planning commission shall recommend the proper zoning classification to the
city council within twelve (12) months of the date of annexation of such area.
(Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016)
10-1-4: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention that the several provisions of this
title are separable in accordance with the following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provisions
of this title not specifically included in said judgment.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any portion of this title to be particular property, building or
other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in said judgment. (Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules Of Construction
10-2-2: General Definitions
10-2-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of this title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the
singular.
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the future
includes the present.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory while the word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   E.   All measured distances expressed shall be to the nearest tenth of a
foot (0.1') and its metric equivalent.
   F.   The word "lot" shall include the words "plot", "piece", and "parcel" of
land.
   G.   The words "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for",
"designed for", "intended for", "improved for", "maintained for", and "occupied
for". (Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
10-2-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise noted in this section, words, terms, and phrases found in the
definitions of Minnesota Statutes section 342.01, or as amended, apply, unless
otherwise noted or except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning. In addition, the following definitions apply:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE COVERAGE OR SIZE: The area of a lot covered by an accessory
structure which is measured to the outside of the exterior walls and includes
areas under extended roofs of over two feet (2') with no side walls such as
carports.
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: Any permanent subordinate building, structure, or
use, that covers space on a lot or property for the purpose of accessory uses
to the principal use. Examples would include, but are not limited to:
unattached and attached garages, carports, sheds and other buildings, swimming
pools, self-supported structures, playhouses, gazebos, permanent tip off
storage containers, wind generators, tower antennas and unattached decks. That
portion of an attached or tuck under garage is considered an accessory
structure and shall count toward the maximums allowed. Signs, fences, parking
lots and mailboxes are considered accessory uses but not accessory structures.
ACRE: A quantity of land containing forty three thousand five hundred sixty
(43,560) square feet or one hundred sixty (160) square rods in whatever shape
and pattern (e.g., circular, square, triangular, irregular, broad or narrow).
ACRE, NET: One acre of land, minus the following:
   A.   Two-thirds (2/3) of that portion of the acre encompassed by wetlands,
one-half (1/2) of that portion of the acre encompassed wholly or partially by
hills, mounds, or slopes that drop at a rate of twelve percent (12%) or more
per every fifteen feet (15') or more of distance; and
   B.   The entire area of public street rights of way.
ADMINISTRATOR: The duly appointed person charged with enforcement of this
title.
AGRICULTURAL USES: Uses customarily associated with the growing of farm
produce, nursery stock and the raising of farm animals for general use; but not
including raising and feeding (feedlots) of livestock, fur farms and kennels.
ALLEY: A public right of way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
ALTERATION: As applied to a building or structure, a change or rearrangement in
the structural parts or in the existing facilities, or an enlargement, whether
by extending on a side or by increasing in height, or by moving from one
location to another.
ANIMAL: Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
ANIMAL, CHICKENS: A domestic female or hen chicken kept for its eggs.
ANIMAL, DOMESTIC: Animals commonly accepted as domesticated household pets
including dogs, cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated
rabbits, fish, nonpoisonous, nonvenomous and nonconstricting reptiles or
amphibians and other similar animals.
ANIMAL, FARM: Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing work
in an agricultural setting including members of the equestrian family (horses,
mules), bovine family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (more than four
(4)chickens), (turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese), swine (including Vietnamese
potbellied pigs), goats, bees and other animals associated with a farm, ranch
or stable.
ANIMAL, NONDOMESTIC (WILD): Animals commonly considered to be naturally wild
and not naturally trained or domesticated or which are commonly considered to
be inherently dangerous to the health, safety and welfare of people.
Nondomestic animals shall include:
Any member of the large cat family (family Felidae), including lions, tigers,
cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly accepted
domesticated house cats;
Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family Canidae), including
wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes and jackals, but excluding commonly accepted
domesticated dogs;
Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog, unless the
crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet;
Any member or relative of the rodent family, including any skunk (whether or
not descented), raccoon, squirrel or ferret, but excluding those members
otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets;
Any poisonous, venomous, constricting or inherently dangerous member of the
reptile or amphibian families, including rattlesnakes, boa constrictors, pit
vipers, crocodiles and alligators;
Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which can be
reasonably defined by the terms of this definition, including, but not limited
to, bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
ANTENNA: Equipment, used for transmitting and/or receiving telecommunication,
television or radio signals, which is located on the exterior or outside of any
building or structure.
   Dish Antenna: A parabolic shaped antenna (including all supporting
apparatus) which is used for transmitting or receiving telecommunications,
television or radio signals, which is located on the exterior or outside of any
building or structure.
Class I: Dish antenna under thirty inches (30") or more in diameter; six feet
(6') in surface area; or six feet (6') in height.
Class II: Dish antenna thirty inches (30") or more in diameter; six (6) square
feet or more in surface area; or six feet (6') or more in height.
   Tower: Any pole, spire or structure, or any combination thereof, to which an
antenna is attached, or which is designed for an antenna to be attached, and
all supporting lines, cables, wires and braces; including, but not limited to,
a freestanding radio (including ham radio and private radio transmitting) or
television receiving antenna, a windmill, and a wind powered generator.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms located in a one- or two- family building
or multiple dwelling, which shall include a bath and kitchen accommodations,
intended or designed for use as an independent residence by a single household.
APPEAL: An application for the review of an order, requirement, decision,
determination or interpretation of this title made by an administrative officer
in the application and/or enforcement of this title.
ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT: A concrete masonry unit (CMU) displaying
any one of several decorative finishes that affects the texture, color, or
profile of the unit including, but not limited to, split, scored, ribbed,
ground, slump, weathered, or glazed units. (Based on recommendation of the
National Concrete Masonry Association.)
ARCHITECTURAL GLASS: A glass, produced as an exterior building material.
ARCHITECTURAL METAL PANELS: A metal wall or roof panel system, which can be of
various alloys, with a high grade factory finish, that uses concealed fasteners
and includes the system's associated gaskets and trim profiles.
ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST PANEL: A precast concrete panel as defined by the
Concrete Precast Institute.
ARTERIAL RIGHT OF WAY: All streets or public rights of way so designated as
arterial by the official Baxter long range functional classification street
map.
ATTORNEY: The person licensed by the state to practice law who has been engaged
by the city council.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles or trailer, including bodywork, framework, welding and
major painting service.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: The replacement of any part or repair of any part
which does not require the removal of the engine head or pan, engine,
transmission or differential; incidental body and fender work; minor painting
and upholstering service when said service above stated is applied to passenger
automobiles and trucks not in excess of seven thousand (7,000) pounds' gross
vehicle weight.
AWNING: A prefabricated device attached to the wall of a building placed over a
window or door.
BALCONY: A platform that projects from the wall of a building having no walls,
roof or support posts but may have a guardrail no higher than forty eight
inches (48").
BASEMENT: A portion of a building located partly underground. A basement shall
be counted as a story if it has one-half (1/2) or more of its height above the
highest level of the adjoining ground and/or if it is intended to be used for
dwelling or business purposes.
BILLBOARDS: A commercial sign which directs attention to a business, activity,
service, entertainment, or a product not exclusively related to the premises or
property where such sign is located. A multi-business sign (MBS) shall not be
considered a billboard if it is in compliance with subsection 10-5-1G1 of this
title.
BILLBOARDS, NONCONFORMING: A sign which is a "billboard" as defined herein and
which lawfully existed prior to February 16, 1982.
BLOCK: An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by streets
or a combination of streets, exterior boundary lines of the subdivision and/or
bodies of water.
BLUFF: A topographical feature such as a hill, cliff, or embankment having the
following characteristics (an area with an average slope of less than 18
percent over a distance of 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of the
bluff):
   A.   Part or all of the feature is located in a shore land area;
   B.   The slope rises at least twenty five feet (25') above the ordinary high
water level of the water body;
   C.   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point twenty five
feet (25') or more above the ordinary high water level averages thirty percent
(30%) or greater; and
   D.   The slope must drain toward the water body.
BLUFF IMPACT ZONE: A bluff and land located within twenty feet (20') from the
top of the bluff.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a motel or hotel where, for compensation
for definite periods of time, meals or lodging are provided for three (3) or
more unrelated persons, but not to exceed eight (8) persons.
BOATHOUSE: A structure designed and used solely for the storage of boats or
boating equipment.
BOULEVARD: That portion of a street right of way between the curb or curb line
and the property line.
BREWER TAPROOM: A facility on the premises of and accessory to a licensed
brewery intended for the on-sale consumption and limited off-sale of beer
produced on site by the brewer as authorized by Minnesota statutes section
340A.26.
BUFFERING: A strip of land containing live trees and shrubs at least fifty
percent (50%) opaque from the ground to at least twelve feet (12') above the
ground at all times of the year.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof which may provide shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals or chattel. When said structure is divided by party walls
without openings, each portion of such building, so separated shall be deemed a
separate building.
BUILDING ENVELOPE: See definition of Lot, Buildable Portion Of (Building
Envelope).
BUILDING FOOTPRINT: The exterior line of the building.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the highest elevation of the grade
along the face of a building to the highest point of the roof surface of flat
roofs, the deck line of mansard roofs, or the average height between the eaves
and the highest ridge of gable, hip, or gambrel roofs. The height of a stepped
or terraced building shall be the height of the tallest segment of the
building.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The inspector as provided for in the building code.
BUILDING LINE: A line parallel to a lot line or ordinary high water level at
the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which the principal use of the lot on which
it is located is conducted.
BULK MATERIALS: Uncontained solid matter such as powder, grain, stone, sand,
sulfur, etc., that has a tendency to become airborne.
BULK/PROPORTION: The term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings
or structures and location of same with respect to one another and includes the
following items:
   A.   Size and height of buildings or structures.
   B.   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
street or to other buildings or structures.
   C.   Gross floor area of buildings or structures in relation to lot lines,
street or to other buildings or structures.
   D.   All open spaces allocated to buildings or structures.
   E.   Amount of lot area per dwelling unit.
BUS/TRANSIT STATION: A building or area which serves as a regular stopping
place for buses and/or other forms of urban public transportation.
BUSINESS: Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or which occupies time, attention, labor and materials, or
where services are offered for compensation.
BUSINESS SERVICES: Services performed primarily for other businesses, including
such services as secretarial, clerical, employment agencies, business machine
service, printing, etc.
CANNABIS: Any species of the genus cannabis plant, or any mixture or
preparation of them including whole plant extracts and resins.
CANNABIS CULTIVATION: A cannabis business, licensed to grow cannabis plants
within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to mature
plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label immature
plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis businesses,
transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the same
premises, and perform other actions approved by the State Office of Cannabis
Management.
CANNABIS MANUFACTURER: The process of converting or packaging harvested
cannabis plant material into medical or recreational cannabis.
CANNABIS, MEDICAL COMBINATION BUSINESS:As defined by Minnesota Statute. Also
referred to as: Medical Cannabis Combination Business.
CANNABIS MEDICAL DISPENSARY:A facility engaged in the sale of medical cannabis
products as defined and regulated by Minnesota Statutes 152.22 152.37.
CANNABIS RETAIL BUFFER: No Cannabis Retailer license or endorsement shall be
granted within 1,000 feet of a school, or 500 feet of a day care, residential
treatment facility, or an attraction within a public park that is regularly
used by minors, including a playground or athletic field. The distance
shall be measured from the freestanding parcel upon which the Cannabis Retailer
is to be licensed to nearest point of the school property, to the nearest point
of the residential treatment facility property and to the nearest point of the
attraction within a public park that is regularly used by minors.
CANNABIS RETAIL LIMIT: Two Cannabis Retail Stores.
CANNABIS RETAILER: Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or association,
foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to the general public, licensed
or endorsed by the State of Minnesota, and not for the purpose of resale in any
form. Cannabis retailer shall not cultivate, manufacture, process or wholesale
onsite.
CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY: An establishment engaged in obtaining and testing
cannabis and hemp, or products derived therefrom, that is licensed by the State
of Minnesota.
CELLAR: A portion of a building located partly underground and having more than
one-half (1/2) of the floor to ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
CIVIC BUILDING: A building that is operated by the U.S. federal government,
state of Minnesota, Crow Wing County, city of Baxter or other government
buildings for purposes of carrying out governmental duties. This definition
does not include publicly or privately operated school facilities (e.g.,
classrooms, administrative offices, maintenance buildings).
CLINIC: A building designed and used for the diagnosis and treatment of human
patients that does not include overnight care facilities.
CLUB OR LODGE: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, use of premises being restricted to members and their
guests.
CLUBS, SPORTS, AND FITNESS: A place to assemble where membership may be
required and is directed toward the general public with the commercial
promotions of sports and physical fitness.
COLLECTOR RIGHT OF WAY: All streets or public rights of way so designated as
collector by the Baxter long range functional classification street map.
COLUMBARIUM: An above ground repository composed of niches designed for the
purpose of interring the cremains of the deceased.
COMMERCIAL FORESTRY: Sustainable yield forest management.
COMMERCIAL RECREATION: Bowling alley, cart track, jump center, golf, pool hall,
vehicle racing or amusement park, dance hall, skating, tavern, theater,
firearms range, golf courses, country clubs, tennis clubs, public swimming
pools and similar uses.
COMMERCIAL USE: The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental, or trade of products, goods, and services.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Meeting any of the following criteria: eight feet (8') or
higher in height, twenty two feet (22') or longer and/or six thousand five
hundred (6,500) pounds or more (empty weight).
COMMISSIONER: The commissioner of the department of natural resources.
COMMUNITY BEHAVIORAL HEALTH HOSPITAL (CBHH): An institution providing short
term inpatient mental health care and treatment for patients on a referral
basis. Services are limited to crisis/emergency response, assertive community
treatment, and intensive residential treatment.
COMMUNITY PARK: A park designed to serve the entire community with a broad
range of recreation opportunities.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A compilation of policy statements, goals, standards and
maps for guiding the physical, social and economic development, both private
and public, of the city and its environs and may include, but is not limited
to, the following items: statements of policies, goals, standards, a land use
plan, a community facilities plan, a transportation plan and recommendations
for plan execution.
CONCEALED FASTENER: A panel anchoring system designed to secure the panel and
be hidden from view.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit specially and individually granted for a
conditional use permitted in any use district. Means a land use or development
that would not be appropriate generally but may be allowed with appropriate
restrictions as provided by official controls upon a finding that certain
conditions as detailed in this title exist, that use or development conforms to
the comprehensive land use plan, and the use is compatible with the existing
neighborhood.
CONVENIENCE STORE: Any retail establishment offering for sale a limited line of
groceries and household items intended for the convenience of the neighborhood.
COUNCIL: The city council, as established by the state law.
DATA CENTER: A facility which houses one (1) or more networked computer servers
for the purpose of storing, managing, computing, or processing digital data,
and which requires various infrastructural elements such as power distribution
units, electrical panels, backup generators, cooling equipment such as fans and
ducts to distribute cool air, or immersion cooling equipment. For the purpose
of this definition, crypo mining is including as a data center.
DAYCARE: A location licensed with the Minnesota department of human services to
provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child’s own home for
gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a twenty-four (24) hour
day.
DAYCARE FACILITY: Any facility, public or private, which, for gain or
otherwise, regularly provides one or more persons with care, training,
supervision, rehabilitation or developmental guidance on a regular basis, for
periods of less than twenty four (24) hours per day in a place other than the
person's own home, including, but not limited to, family daycare homes, group
family daycare homes, daycare centers, day nurseries, nursery schools,
preschool programs, daytime activity centers, day treatment programs and day
services. Daycare facilities are pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapter 245A as
amended.
DECK OR OPEN PORCH: A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached
railings, seats, trellises, or other features, attached to a principal
structure.
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units permitted by this title on one acre.
DENSITY, NET: The number of dwelling units permitted by this title on one net
acre of land.
DENSITY TRANSFER: The relocation of housing units or square footage of building
area computed on part of a building site to another part of the site resulting
in an increase in density to the transfer area for the purpose of preserving
open space, forested areas, environmental or terrain features deemed worthy of
preservation by the planning and zoning commission.
DENSITY, ZONING: The provision of lot areas smaller than the minimum
requirement of this title under conditions whereby the total number of dwelling
units is not greater than the amount permitted under normal conditions for
gross area.
DESIGNATED CITY STAFF PERSON: Staff person appointed by the city to manage this
job function.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A private sign that directs traffic to a particular location.
Such signs cannot exceed six (6) square feet.
DOG KENNEL: A structure specifically designed and commercially used for the
harboring of three (3) or more dogs that are more than six (6) months old.
DOG RUN: A structure specifically designed for domestic use for the harboring
and exercise of not more than two (2) dogs.
DRIVE-THROUGH BUSINESS: Any business establishment offering to customers a
service which is primarily or exclusively laid out, designed, equipped or
operated so as to allow customers to purchase and receive such service without
having to enter the building and usually while remaining in their automobiles.
This definition shall exclude certain types of businesses such as service shops
and car washes.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A dwelling structure on a single lot, having two (2) or
more units, being attached by common walls and each unit equipped with separate
sleeping, cooking, eating, living, and sanitation facilities.
DWELLING UNIT: Any structure, or portion of a structure, or other shelter
designed as short or long term living quarters for one or more persons,
including rental or timeshare accommodations such as motel, hotel, and resort
rooms and cabins.
DYNAMIC DISPLAY: Any characteristics of a sign that appear to have movement or
that appear to change, caused by any method other than physically removing and
replacing the sign or its components, whether the apparent movement or change
is in the display, the sign structure itself, or any other component of the
sign. This includes a display that incorporates a technology or method allowing
the sign face to change the image without having to physically or mechanically
replace the sign face or its components. This also includes any rotating,
revolving, moving, flashing, blinking, or animated display and any display that
incorporates rotating panels, LED lights manipulated through digital input,
"digital ink" or any other method or technology that allows the sign face to
present a series of images or displays.
EARTH TONE COLOR: Color schemes that draw from a color palette of off whites,
browns, tans, beiges, grays, greens, blues, and some reds. The colors in an
earth tone color scheme are muted and flat in an emulation of the natural
colors.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of his property.
ENGINEER: The professional engineer engaged by the city council.
ENTERTAINMENT, LIVE (INDOOR/OUTDOOR): A musical theatrical, dance, or comedy
Formatted: Font: Not Bold act performed by one or more persons. Any form of
dancing by patrons and guests at on eating or drinking establishment or bar is
live entertainment. Live entertainment does not include die term "adult use and
sexually oriented businesses.
ESSENTIAL SERVICE STRUCTURES: Including, but not limited to, buildings such as
telephone exchange stations, booster or pressure regulating stations, wells,
pumping stations, elevated tanks, lift stations and electrical power
substations, provided no building shall be located within thirty feet (30') of
any lot line of an abutting lot in an R district.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: Underground, onground or overhead gas, electrical, phone,
cable, steam or water transmission or distribution systems; collection,
communication, supply or disposal systems including poles, wires, mains,
drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes,
traffic signals, hydrants or other similar equipment and accessories in
conjunction therewith; but not including buildings.
EXPANSION, ENLARGEMENT, INTENSIFICATION: Any increase in a dimension, size,
area, volume, or height, any increase in the area of use, any placement of a
structure or part thereof where none existed before, any addition of a site
feature such as a deck, patio, fence, driveway, parking area, or swimming pool,
any improvement that would allow the land to be more intensely developed, any
move of operations to a new location on the property, or any increase in
intensity of use based on a review of the original nature, function or purpose
of the nonconforming use, the hours of operation, traffic, parking, noise,
exterior storage, signs, exterior lighting, types of operations, types of goods
or services offered, odors, area of operation, number of employees, and other
factors deemed relevant by the city.
   Repair: Maintenance, cosmetic enhancement, or other improvements that will
make the nonconforming use better, more efficient, or more aesthetically
pleasing, including any change that replicates what preexisted, but does not
include an expansion, enlargement, or intensification.
EXTERIOR INSULATION AND FINISH SYSTEM (EIFS): An approved exterior finish
insulation system commonly referred to as "EIFS".
EXTERIOR STORAGE: The storage of goods, materials, equipment, manufactured
products and similar items not fully enclosed by a building.
EYEBROW ROOF: A small roof structure supported by corbels placed over an
entrance.
FACADE: All the adjoining walls that are flat and contiguous, along an exterior
side of a building including the entire building wall consisting of wall faces,
parapets, fascia, windows, doors, canopy and visible roof structures of one
complete elevation.
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons living together as a single
nonprofit housekeeping unit, using one kitchen as distinguished from a group
occupying a motel, club, fraternity or sorority house.
FENCE: Any partition, structure, wall, or crate erected as a dividing marker,
barrier, or enclosure.
FINAL PLAT: A drawing, in final form, showing a proposed subdivision containing
all information and detail required by state statutes and by title 11 of this
code to be presented to the city council for approval, and which, if approved,
may be duly filed with the county recorder.
FINISHED METAL PANEL: A metallic exterior building material with a
manufacturer's approved finish process.
FLAT ROOF: Any roof pitch below three feet (3') of rise for every twelve feet
(12') of run (3:12).
FLOOD DESIGN: The design flood which has been calculated for a given watershed
or area from record and study. In the absence of any special engineering
studies, the federal emergency management administration maps, 1965 high water
levels on rivers and May 1996 wetland water levels shall be used as a standard
in this title in determining areas subject to flooding.
FLOODPLAIN 1 : The area adjoining a river, stream, drainage channel, lake, pond
or any low area which is subject to flooding.
FLOODWATER: The water of any river, stream, drainage channel, low area, lake,
or pond which is above and/or outside the channel or banks of such river,
stream, drainage channel, lake or pond.
FLOODWAY: The channel or bed of a river, stream, drainage channel, lake, or
pond and those portions of the floodplains adjoining which are required to
efficiently carry and discharge the flow of the river or stream and for the
purposes of this title.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS OR GROSS FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of
the several floors of such building or buildings measured from the interior
faces of the exterior walls. Basement areas devoted to storage, and space
devoted to off street parking shall be excluded.
FLOOR AREA, NET OR NET FLOOR AREA: The sum of the total gross floor area less
common, multiuse areas used solely for nonpublic purposes including, but not
limited to, dead storage; mechanical rooms or closets, or both; window
showcases; toilets or restrooms; atriums; elevators; elevator shafts and ducts.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The numerical value obtained through dividing the floor area
of a building by the lot area on which such building is located.
FORESTLAND CONVERSION: The clear cutting of forested lands, removing living
trees in a contiguous patch, strip, row, block, or legal parcel to prepare for
a new land use. This definition does not apply to commercial forestry involving
reestablishment of a new forest stand.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any stationary or portable, self-supporting sign.
FRONT BUILDING FACE: All the adjoining walls, along that side of a building
that faces a public or private right of way. A structure may have more than one
front building face if it is located on a corner lot, through lot, or a lot
bounded on additional sides by a public or private right of way. The number of
front building faces will be determined by the city.
FRONTAGE: The uninterrupted front boundary line of a lot, or the length of such
line, which abuts on a street or protected water. On a corner lot it shall be
the shortest dimension on a public street.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or portion of the principal building
which is intended and used for the storage of the private vehicles of the
family who resides upon the lot upon which the garage is located.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building or portion of a building used for the storage of
vehicles for remuneration.
GARAGE, REPAIR: A building or space for the repair or maintenance of motor
vehicles, including bodywork, painting and vehicle wash, and incidental display
and sales of automotive products but not including factory assembly of such
vehicles, auto wrecking or junk yards.
GARAGE, TRUCK: A building which is used or to be used for the storage of motor
trucks, truck trailers, tractors and commercial vehicles exceeding one ton
rated capacity.
GARDEN CENTER: A place of business where retail and wholesale products and
produce are sold to the consumer. These centers may include a nursery and/or
greenhouses, nursery products, nursery stock, potting soil, hardware, hoes,
rakes, shovels, and other garden and farm variety tools and utensils.
GOVERNING BODY: The city council.
GRADE: The lowest elevation of the finished surface of the ground, sidewalk, or
other paving within a five foot (5') horizontal distance from any structure.
GROUP HOME: A group facility in a residential setting utilized by unrelated
people on a twenty four (24) hour per day basis for purposes of rehabilitation,
education, supervision, and treatment.
HARDSHIP: The property in question cannot be put to a reasonable use if used
under current conditions allowed by the official controls or the plight of the
landowner is due to circumstances unique to his property not created by the
landowner and the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential
characteristics of the locality. Economic considerations alone shall not
constitute a hardship if reasonable use of the property exists under the terms
of this title.
HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL: Structures with between two (2) and twenty (20)
dwelling units.
HIGH WATER MARK: A mark delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape. The normal high water mark is commonly that point where the natural
vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
HOME OCCUPATION: A gainful occupation engaged in by a person residing in the
dwelling in conformance with requirements set forth by the City.
HOSPITAL: An institution providing health services primarily for human
inpatient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including
related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training
facilities, central facilities, and staff offices that are an integral part of
the facilities.
HOSPITAL OUTPATIENT CARE: Medical examination or service available to the
public in a hospital. This service is provided without overnight care and shall
be considered a separate, independent, principal use for the purposes of
parking demand when combined or operated in conjunction with a hospital.
HOTEL: Any building or portion thereof occupied as the temporary living place
of individuals and containing three (3) or more guest rooms that are used,
designated, or intended to be used, let or hired out to be occupied, or which
are occupied by three (3) or more individuals for compensation and whose
individual room entrances are accessed by a common interior hallway.
HOUSE OF WORSHIP: A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses,
where persons regularly assemble for religious activities or worship and
related activities.
HOUSE TRAILER: Any trailer or semitrailer not used as a residence but used for
temporary living quarters for recreational or vacation activities and one that
is towed on public roads in connection with such use.
HOUSEHOLD: The persons occupying a single dwelling unit. A household may
consist of a single family, one person living alone, two (2) or more families
living together, or any group of related or unrelated persons who share living
arrangements.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A hard surface area that either prevents or retards the
entry of water into the soil. Examples of impervious surfaces include, but are
not limited to: roofs, storage areas, walkways, sidewalks, patios, driveways,
parking lots, concrete paving, bituminous/asphalt paving, gravel roads or
parking areas, and other packed earthen materials.
INDUSTRY: Principal uses such as the manufacturing, compounding, processing,
packaging, treatment, assembling, or warehousing of products and materials.
INSTITUTIONAL HOUSING: Student or faculty housing, for four (4) or more persons
on a rental basis, rest home, hospital, sanatorium, nursing home, convalescent
home, or orphan home.
JOINT DRIVEWAY: A surfaced area needed for two-way vehicular access serving two
(2) adjacent parking lots. The area extends from the edge of the surface of a
public street into both subject properties and includes only that area
necessary to access each parking lot but having no more than twenty five feet
(25') of shared aisle space. The final design of the area must be approved by
the City and the area must be located on both of the subject properties.
JOINT PARKING AISLE: A surfaced area extending beyond that of a joint driveway
that provides two-way circulation or access to parking bays, stalls or lots of
two (2) adjacent parking lots on separate properties. The final design of the
area must be approved by the city and the area must be located on both of the
subject properties.
JUNKYARD: An area where used, waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed, disassembled or
handled, including, but not limited to, scrap iron, and other metals, paper,
rags, rubber products, bottles, and used building materials. Storage of
materials in conjunction with construction or a manufacturing process shall not
be included. Such use shall not include garbage.
KENNEL, ANIMAL: A place where three (3) or more of any single type of domestic
animal, over six (6) months of age, are owned, boarded, bred, or offered for
sale.
LEED: An acronym for leadership in energy and environmental design.
LAKES: Open water without emergent vegetation identified as protected waters by
the department of natural resources.
LANDSCAPE LOT AREA: That portion of a lot required to remain as open space,
free of buildings, parking, and drives. Landscape lot areas may consist of:
   A.   Naturally vegetated areas;
   B.   Wetlands or ponding areas;
   C.   Planting beds, ground cover and mulch areas (vegetative, rock, bark
chip, etc.);
   D.   Decorative walkways and areas not to exceed fifteen percent (15%) of
the required landscape lot area; and
   E.   Outdoor recreation areas.
LANDSCAPING: Plantings such as trees, grass, shrubs and decorative timbers,
arbors, rocks and water displays.
LICENSED ENGINEER: A person licensed as a professional engineer by the state of
Minnesota.
LOADING AREA: Any area where trucks are maneuvered and parked for the purpose
of loading or unloading products, materials, or equipment.
LOT: A parcel of land described by metes and bounds measurement, reference to a
registered land survey plat, record of survey map, or other means, and
separated from other parcels or portions by said description, and which is
occupied by, or is suitable under this title and other applicable ordinances
for occupancy by one principal building, or used together with any accessory
buildings or uses and such open spaces as are required by this title.
LOT AREA: The area of a lot on a horizontal plane bounded by lot lines. For the
purpose of meeting any area or dimensional requirements, the lot area shall not
include any portion that lies within a public road easement or which is below
the ordinary high water mark of any lake, river or stream. In addition, at
least seventy five percent (75%) of the required minimum lot size for that
district must be contiguous upland to itself and not be within a wetland,
floodplain, or bluff. In other words, the lot area would be the contiguous
upland seventy five percent (75%) of the lot that is not within the wetland,
floodplain or bluff.
LOT AREA, NET BUILDABLE: The space remaining on a lot after the minimum
landscape area, open space, parking and setback requirements of this title have
been met.
LOT AREA PER FAMILY: The lot area required by this title to be provided for
each family in a dwelling.
LOT, BUILDABLE PORTION OF (BUILDING ENVELOPE) 2 : The area of a lot on which a
principal structure may be placed. The portion of a lot remaining after the
minimum building setbacks have been met.
LOT, BUTT: A lot located on the end of a block, excluding corner lots.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two (2) or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
continuous street, the interior angle of which does not exceed one hundred
thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT COVERAGE: The total allowable amount of lot area, expressed as a
percentage, which may be covered by a principal use and its accessory
structures.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot, including through lots.
LOT LINE: The property line bounding a lot except that where any portion of a
lot extends into the public right of way or a proposed public right of way, the
line of such public right of way shall be the lot line. For purposes of setback
requirements, waterfront lots shall be deemed to have frontage on both the
street and waterfront.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street. In the case of a lot in a residential zoning district with more
than one street frontage, it shall be that shortest dimension on a public
street. Lots in nonresidential zoning districts with more than one street
frontage shall be deemed to have a front lot line on each street.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line. If
the rear lot line is less than ten feet (10') in length or if the lot forms a
point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be a line ten feet (10') in length
within the lot, parallel to the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot existing as of January 19, 1982, or approved by the city
as a lot subsequent to that date.
LOT, SHORELINE: A lot having one or more lot lines fronting on public waters.
LOT, THROUGH: Any lot other than a corner lot which abuts more than one street.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot measured
parallel to the front line of the lot at the setback line.
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL: Single-family dwellings in standard neighborhood
settings.
LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE: As defined under Minn. Stat. 342.01 subd. 50.
   Lower-potency hemp edible cultivation: An establishment engaged in the
cultivation of lower-potency hemp.
   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturing: An establishment engaged in the
manufacturing of lower-potency hemp edible products.
   Lower-potency hemp edible retailer: A business that sells lower-potency hemp
edible products to customers.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which in
the traveling mode is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body
feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320)
or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to
be used as a dwelling with or without permanent foundation when connected to
the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning
and electrical systems contained therein, except that the term includes any
structure which meets all the requirements and with respect to which the
manufacturer voluntarily filed a certification required by the secretary of the
United States department of housing and urban development and complies with the
standards established under section
10-5-6 of this title.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which two
(2) or more occupied manufactured homes are located, either free of charge or
for compensation, and includes any building, structure, tent, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the manufactured
home park.
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: All manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment or assembly of products and materials that may emit objectionable and
offensive influences beyond the lot on which the use is located.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: All uses which include the compounding, processing,
packaging, treatment or assembly of products and materials, provided such use
will not generate objectionable influence that extends beyond the lot on which
the use is located.
MEDICAL CLINIC: A structure intended for providing medical examinations and
service available to the public. This service is provided without overnight
care available.
MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL: Existing mobile homes, manufactured housing,
single-family homes, two-family dwelling, up to four- family dwelling including
townhouses.
MEMORIAL PARK/CEMETERY: Burial ground or area set aside for passive recreation
as a memorial to past generations.
METES AND BOUNDS: A method of property description utilizing directions and
distances commencing from and terminating at an easily identifiable point.
MINING: The extraction of sand, gravel, rock, soil or other materials from the
land in the amount of four hundred (400) cubic yards or more and the removal
thereof from the site. The only exclusion from this definition should be
removal of minerals associated with the nominal construction of a building.
MONUMENT SIGN: A sign that, excluding poles or other such structures, rests on
the ground or very close thereto so that one cannot see beyond the sign by
looking under the sign.
MOTOR COURTS, MOTOR HOTEL OR MOTEL: A building or group of buildings other than
a hotel used primarily as a temporary residence.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building in which freight brought by motor truck is
transferred and/or stored for movement.
MOTOR FUEL STATION: A retail place of business engaged primarily in the sale of
motor fuels, but also may be engaged in supplying goods and services generally
associated with the operation and maintenance of motor vehicles. These may
include sale of petroleum products, sale and servicing of tires, batteries,
automotive accessories, and replacement items, washing and lubrication
services, and the performance of minor automotive maintenance and repair.
MOTORIZED VEHICLE LEASING AND RENTALS: A business that leases or rents
motorized vehicles to the general public. Includes minor services and washing
as an accessory use. Not more than eight (8) rental or lease vehicles on site
at one time.
MULTI-BUSINESS SIGN: A freestanding sign which displays, or is capable of
displaying, more than one business, of which at least one business is located
upon a different parcel of real estate.
MULTI-TENANT SIGN: A pylon sign which displays, or is capable of displaying,
more than one business.
MULTIPLE OCCUPANCY BUILDING: A building containing two (2) or more independent
businesses with or without separate exterior entrances and for which signage,
parking and site requirements are unified in a consistent visual and functional
manner.
MULTISPECIALTY OUTPATIENT CLINIC: A medical facility containing at least three
(3) specialty outpatient service and ancillary services such as laboratory
services, urgent care, day surgery, physical therapy, OB/GYN, imaging services,
pharmacy services, etc.
NAMEPLATE SIGN: A permanent wall sign affixed on the front facade of a
residential structure.
NEIGHBORHOOD PARK: A park designed to provide for limited recreation needs of a
neighborhood.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot that does not meet the minimum width, area, or other
requirements of the zoning or subdivision regulations.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A nonconforming use which consists of a building or
structure having one or more dimensional features that do not meet the current
zoning regulations.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building, structure or use of a building, structure or
parcel of land, or a portion thereof, lawfully existing as of the effective
date hereof or amendment hereto, as a matter of right or by permit, which is
not permitted in the zoning district in which it is located.
NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIALS: Material capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction, or capable of causing detrimental effects on
the physical or economic well being of individuals.
NURSERY, DAY: A use where care is provided for pay for three (3) or more
children for periods of four (4) hours or more per day.
NURSERY, LANDSCAPE: A business growing and selling trees, flowering and
decorative plants, and shrubs, excluding cannabis.
OFF STREET PARKING AREAS: Structures or areas of ground used for the storage or
parking of motor vehicles.
OFFICE: A room, suite of rooms, or a building containing rooms or suites of
rooms in which persons conduct commercial activities, provide professional
services, or carry on occupations and where goods are not stored, produced,
sold at retail or repaired, including, but not limited to, the following:
financial institutions, executive and administrative offices, business offices
such as insurance, real estate, sales and similar offices, professional offices
such as offices of engineers, surveyors, architects, accountants, attorneys and
bookkeepers and similar offices, but excluding medical clinics.
OPEN SALES LOT: Land devoted to the display of goods for sale, rent, lease or
trade where such goods are not enclosed within a building.
OPEN SPACE: See definition of landscape lot area.
OPEN STORAGE: Storage of material outside of a building.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK: A mark delineating the highest water level which has
been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape. The ordinary high water mark is commonly that point where the
natural vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly
terrestrial.
ORNAMENTAL TREE: A tree which is valued more for its appearance and visual
benefits rather than its functional benefits.
OUTSIDE IMPROVEMENTS: Landscaping, parking lots, trash enclosures, drainage,
and other required site improvements constructed to support or in conjunction
with a principal building or use.
OVERSTORY TREE: A tree which occurs in the upper levels of the forest canopy,
usually the dominant and codominant tree crown classes.
OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation,
trust, or any other legal entity having proprietary interest in the land and/or
building.
PARKING SPACE: A surfaced and maintained area for the storage of one standard
automobile ten feet by twenty feet (10' x 20').
PARTY WALL: A common wall which divides two (2) independent dwelling units or
businesses.
PATHWAY, PEDESTRIANWAY: A public or private way, running across or located
within a platted lot or block or an unplatted parcel of land used primarily for
pedestrian traffic.
PEDESTRIANWAY: The right of way across or within a block for use by pedestrian
traffic.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, associates,
joint stock association or body politic; includes any trustee, receiver,
assignee or other similar representative thereof.
PERSONAL SERVICES USE: Establishments providing nonmedically related services,
including beauty and barber shops; tattoo parlors and body piercing; tanning
salons and massage parlors. These uses may also include accessory retail sales
of products related to the services provided.
PERVIOUS PAVEMENT: Pervious materials that permit water to enter the ground by
virtue of their porous nature or by large spaces in the material.
PITCHED ROOF: A roof that has no less than three feet (3') of rise for every
twelve feet (12') of run (3:12).
PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMODATION: A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A tract of land under unified ownership or
partnership to provide for a planned development project wherein there is more
than one principal building or land use per lot and with adequate controls to
protect adjacent development and ensure high standards of development in
accordance with an integrated design and coordinated physical plan.
PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The duly appointed person charged with
implementation and enforcement of this title.
PORCH, COVERED: A horizontal platform attached to a principal structure with a
roof but no walls but may have a guardrail no higher than forty eight inches
(48").
PORTICO: A porch or walkway with a roof supported by columns or posts leading
to the entrance of a structure.
PRESERVATION AREA: To preserve a representative sample of ecologically
significant land and the diversity of life it supports.
PRIVATE RIGHT OF WAY: Nonpublic rights of way as identified in the city of
Baxter street/snowplowing map or private accesses for approved planned unit
developments (PUD).
PRIVATE SIGN: Any sign that is erected by a nongovernmental entity.
PROJECT: The improvements of an entire proposed undertaking (involving new
construction and/or modification of an existing building) identified on a
building permit.
PROJECT COSTS: The total cost of all the improvements of a proposed project
identified on a building permit.
PUBLIC USE: The use of any lot, parcel of land and any structure or building
thereon exclusively for public purposes by any department or branch of
government, federal, state, county or city, including independent school
districts, without reference to the ownership of said lot, parcel of land,
building or structure.
PUBLIC WATERS: A body of water capable of substantial beneficial public use.
This shall be construed to mean, for the purposes of these regulations, any
body of water which has the potential to support any type of recreational
pursuit or water supply purpose. A body of water created by a private user
where there was no previous "shore land", as defined herein, for a designated
private use authorized by the commissioner of natural resources, shall be
exempt.
PYLON SIGN: A sign in which there is at least ten feet (10') between the ground
and the face of the sign so that one could see beyond the sign by looking under
the sign.
RAILROAD RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for
track operation, but not including depots, loading platforms, stations, train
sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops or water towers.
RECREATION, COMMERCIAL: Recreational facilities which are operated for profit
or render a service which is customarily considered as a business.
RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE: As defined by Minnesota statutes section 327.14,
or as further amended.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION: A building, together with its accessory buildings and
uses, where persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which
building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and
controlled by a religious body organized to sustain public worship and related
community activities.
REMODELING: Construction which results in a change in the outside perimeter of
the building (i.e., either larger or smaller).
REPAIR OF EXTERIOR MATERIAL: Restoration of the original exterior material to a
sound condition.
REPLACEMENT OF EXTERIOR MATERIAL: Removal and reinstallation of the exterior
material.
REPLACEMENT, RECONSTRUCTION, OR RESTORATION: Construction that exactly matches
preexisting conditions and is completed in time frames set forth in subsection
10-1-3D8b(5) of this title.
RESEARCH: The use of any lot, parcel of land and any structure or building
located thereon for the purpose of studying or investigating facts not readily
available, such as, for example, medical, chemical, electrical, metallurgical,
or other scientific research, but excluding the manufacture or processing of
materials or goods for sale. Research with animals is considered a separate
category.
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: Any facility licensed by the Minnesota department of
human services, public or private, which for gain or otherwise regularly
provides one or more persons with twenty four (24) hour per day substitute
care, food, lodging, training, education, supervision, habilitation,
rehabilitation, and treatment they need, but which for any reason cannot be
furnished in the person's own home. Residential facilities include, but are not
limited to: state institutions under the control of the commissioner of public
welfare, foster homes, halfway houses, residential treatment centers, maternity
shelters, group homes, residential programs or schools for handicapped
children.
RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY: As defined under Minnesota Statute 245.462
subd. 23.
REST HOME OR NURSING HOME: A building having accommodations where care is
provided for two (2) or more invalid, infirm, aged, convalescent, or physically
disabled persons that are not of the immediate family, but not including
hospitals, clinics, sanatoriums, or similar institutions.
RESTAURANT: A business established whose principal business is the preparation,
service and sale of food and beverages to be consumed by customers while seated
at tables or counters located within the building on the premises.
RETAIL SALES: Establishments whose main purpose is the sale of goods in small
quantities directly to consumers.
ROOFLINE CHANGE: Any horizontal or vertical change above the roof deck line of
an existing building including increasing of a parapet or other feature but
excluding the mere addition of mechanical equipment and associated screening.
SANITARIUM OR SANATORIUM: An institution for the inpatient care and treatment
of chronic mental health patients for extended or permanent periods of time.
SCHOOLS, GENERAL EDUCATION: Nursery, primary, elementary, secondary schools and
colleges.
SCHOOLS, SPECIAL EDUCATION: Trade, vocational, business, barber, beauty, art,
music, dancing, driving, and other professional schools, with or without on
site housing.
SEASONAL RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE PARK (SRCVP): A parcel of land
specifically developed for locating only recreational camping vehicles on lots
for temporary occupancy. Continuous occupancy extending beyond six (6) months
in any twelve (12) month period shall constitute permanent occupancy.
SENIOR HOUSING OR LIVING: A multiple-family dwelling with open occupancy
limited to persons at least fifty five (55) years of age. In the case of double
occupancy of a unit, only one resident is required to be at least fifty five
(55) years of age. However, such resident under fifty five (55) years of age
must be a spouse or the caretaker or superintendent of the building or complex.
Senior housing or living also includes all types of life cycle housing in these
structures and may include handicapped persons as defined by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT: The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over groundwater or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding, or occurrence of flora or fauna in
need of special protection.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a structure foundation,
parking area, fence and a lot line.
SETBACK, MINIMUM BUILDING: The minimum horizontal distance allowed by this
title between a structure and a lot line.
SHADE TREE: A deciduous tree which will provide shade for an intended object,
windows of a building, or open surface area. The purpose of the shade tree is
to provide for cooling in the summer.
SHEET METAL SIDING PANELS: Prefinished metal or site finished siding panels
that are flat, corrugated, ribbed, etc., and use exposed fasteners.
SHORE IMPACT ZONE: Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of fifty percent (50%) of
the structure setback.
SHORE LAND: Land located within the following distances from public waters: one
thousand feet (1,000') from the ordinary high water mark of any lake and three
hundred feet (300') from the bank of the river or stream or three hundred feet
(300') from the base flood water surface elevation, whichever is a greater
distance, all as identified in section
10-3L-3 of this title.
SIDEWALK: A hard surfaced public or private way used primarily for pedestrian
traffic.
SIGN: Any name, identification, description, display, logo, illustration or
device which is affixed to, painted or represented directly or indirectly upon
a building or other surface or piece of land, and which directs attention to an
object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or
business.
SIGN AREA: The area of the sign measured within lines drawn between the
outermost points of a sign, but excluding essential sign structure, foundations
or supports. The calculation for a double faced sign shall be the area of one
face only. Double faced signs shall be so constructed that the perimeter of
both faces coincide and are parallel and are not more than twenty four inches
(24") apart.
SIGN HEIGHT: The average level of the grade below the sign to the topmost point
of the sign including the supporting sign structure, foundations and supports.
SIMULATED MATERIAL: A manmade product produced to resemble, reflect or copy a
natural material in appearance and durability.
SOIL PROCESSING: The processing of sand, gravel or other materials mined from
the land.
SPECIAL RESIDENTIAL/CLUSTERS: Development example: single-family neighborhoods
with much rural land. The goal of this zone is to provide residential
neighborhoods in a rural setting. No central sewer service will be provided in
this area.
STABLE, COMMERCIAL: Any structure or land used for the lease, rental, sale or
hire of the equestrian family (horses), to the public. Breeding, boarding, or
training of equines may also be conducted.
STABLE, PRIVATE: Any structure or land used for the keeping of equestrian
family (horses) owned by the occupants of the principal use and not kept for
remuneration, hire, or sale.
STEEP SLOPE: Land where development is either not recommended or described as
poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site's soil characteristics, as
mapped and described in available county soil surveys or other technical
reports, unless appropriate design and construction techniques are used in
accordance with the provisions of this title. Where specific information is not
available, steep slopes are lands having average slopes of three to one (3:1)
or greater, as measured over horizontal distances of fifty feet (50') or more,
that are not defined as bluffs.
STOOP: A small porch or stairway at the entrance of a structure.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it, or, if no such floor above, the space
between such floor and the ceiling next above it.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall face not more than three feet (3') above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than two-thirds (2/3) of the floor area is
finished for use. A half story containing independent apartment or living
quarters shall be counted as a full story.
STREETS: A public or private way; consisting, in the case of a private way, of
a roadway; and in the case of a public way, of a roadway and a boulevard (the
latter of which may contain a sidewalk), used primarily for vehicular traffic,
whether designated as a street, avenue, parkway, road, lane, throughway,
expressway, highway, place or however otherwise designated. The term "streets"
includes the following classifications:
   Collector Street: A street which carries traffic from local streets and
highways of higher classifications. It provides for both land access service
and local traffic movements within residential neighborhoods, commercial areas
and industrial areas.
   Cul-De-Sac: A street with a circular turnaround and only one outlet.
   Expressway: A type of major arterial with a controlled access roadway and
expressway ramps to provide ingress or egress to other levels of streets. The
use of expressway ramps allows the uniform flow of traffic on a major arterial
highway without undue delays.
   Local Street: A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
the abutting properties and the local needs of a neighborhood.
   Minor Arterial: A street system that interconnects with and augments the
urban major arterial system and provides service to trips of moderate length at
a somewhat lower level of travel mobility than major arterials. This system
distributes travel to geographical areas smaller than those identified with the
higher system.
   Principal Arterial: Usually a divided highway with four (4) or more lanes
and serves the major centers of activity of a metropolitan area, the highest
traffic volume corridors, and the longest trip desire. The major arterial
carries a high proportion of the total urban area travel on a minimum mileage.
Almost all fully and partially controlled access facilities are a part of this
class.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, placed or erected that requires the use of a
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground. This definition does not include aerial or underground
utility lines. This definition would not include fish houses, shore stations,
vehicles and other such items that are in fact moved onto a lot for seasonal
purposes only. If, however, such items do in fact not move during each season,
they shall be considered a structure for the purposes hereof. Factors to
consider for determining if such items are in fact structures are: do they in
fact move each season, is the item still functional for its intended use other
than a permanent structure, has the landowner prepared a block, board or other
such foundation for said structure intending on it being there indefinitely.
STUCCO: Portland cement based finish material.
STUDIO, ART RELATED: Workspace and accessory sale of art produced on the
premises for one or more artists or artisans, including photography, fine and
craft art, interior decorating and related uses.
SUBDIVISION: The division of any parcel of land into two (2) or more lots,
blocks, and/or sites, with or without streets or highways and includes
resubdivision.
SURVEYOR: A person duly registered as a land surveyor by the state of
Minnesota.
TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign that is designed or intended to be displayed for a short
period of time and is not permanently installed. Election signs are
specifically regulated by Minnesota statutes section 211B.045.
TIER 1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT: Refer to the official industrial tier maps adopted
by the Baxter city council by resolution.
TIER 2 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT: Refer to the official industrial tier maps adopted
by the Baxter city council by resolution.
TOBACCO SPECIALTY STORE: A tobacco retailer whose business exclusively or
primarily involves the sale of tobacco products and related goods.
TOE OF BLUFF: The lower point of a fifty foot (50') segment with an average
slope exceeding eighteen percent (18%).
TOP OF BLUFF: The higher point of a fifty foot (50') segment with an average
slope exceeding eighteen percent (18%).
TOWNHOUSE: A single-family dwelling which maintains private ingress and egress,
contains no independent dwellings above or below it, and is attached to other
similar dwellings by a common wall.
TRAIL: A cleared or paved pathway used by individuals on foot, mechanically
powered machines, or powered machines for transportation or recreation. These
facilities are not designed for conventional motor vehicles.
TRUCK STOP: A motor fuel station devoted principally to the needs of trucks and
which shall include eating and/or sleeping facilities.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or structure thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied, utilized, or
maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: A use subordinate to and serving the principal use or structure
on the same lot.
USE, CONDITIONAL: A use which is permitted within a zoning district only after
a public hearing and if certain conditions are met which eliminate or minimize
the incompatibility of the conditional use with other permitted uses of the
district.
USE, INTERIM: The temporary use of a property until a particular date, until
the occurrence of a particular event or until the zoning regulations no longer
permit said use.
USE, NONCONFORMING: Any use of land or structures which does not conform to the
use restrictions for the district in which it is located and which lawfully
existed on November 19, 1974, or on the date of adoption hereof, or on the date
the use became nonconforming because of rezoning of the property or amendment
to the text of this title. This should not be confused with substandard
dimensions of a conforming use.
USE, OPEN: The use of land without a building or including a building
incidental to the open use.
USE, PERMITTED: A use which conforms with the requirements of the zoning
district within which it is located.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The primary use of the land or structures as distinguished from
accessory uses.
USE, SPECIAL PRINCIPAL: A principal use which, because of unique
characteristics, cannot be classified as a permitted principal use in any
particular district, and which, after due consideration by the planning and
zoning commission and council, pursuant to the applicable procedures contained
herein, may nevertheless be allowed on a site in a particular zoning district
by special use permit granted by the council. Includes temporary uses which
require special approval before being allowed.
UTILITY DISTRIBUTION LINES: The distribution facilities of electric power, gas,
water, and communication companies which directly serve abutting properties.
UTILITY SERVICE AREA: The area where municipal sewer service would be
available. It is anticipated that if municipal sewer service is limited to this
area that the existing sewer plant capacity will be adequate. Development
occurring outside the service utility area would be served by individual sewers
or neighborhood systems. In this area, city policy will favor neighborhood
systems.
UTILITY SUBSTATION: A structure used for the relay or distribution of electric,
water, sewer, telephone, etc., services.
UTILITY TRANSMISSION LINES: The transmission facilities of electric power and
communication companies which do not directly serve abutting properties.
VARIANCE: A modification or variation of the provisions of this title, as
applied to a specific piece of property, except that modification in the
allowable uses within a district shall not be allowed as a variance.
VETERINARY: Those uses concerned with the diagnosis, treatment, and medical
care of animals including animal or pet hospitals.
WALL SIGN: Any exterior sign which is affixed to the wall of a building,
including signs attached to doors, marquees, canopies, or parapet walls. Any
sign one foot (1') above eaves height or the top of a parapet wall shall be
considered as a roof sign and not allowed.
WAREHOUSING: The principal use is storage of materials or equipment within an
enclosed building.
WATERFRONT USES: Boat docks, and storage, water recreation equipment and other
uses normally associated with lakeshore property.
WEEDS:
   A.   Noxious weeds as defined and designated pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
sections 18.76 through 18.88, as amended, or
   B.   Any volunteer plants as may be listed by the City weed inspector as
prohibited plants, said list being available at City Hall, and are regulated by
title 4, chapter 4 of this Code.
WETLANDS: Low lying areas which are normally covered with shallow or
intermittent waters. Swamps, marshes, bogs, and other areas are all wetlands
and may occur as part of a river, stream, drainageway, or as a freestanding low
area.
WHOLESALING: The selling of goods, equipment and materials by bulk to another
business that in turn sells to the final customer.
YARD: A required open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed by
any structure from its lowest ground level to the sky except as expressly
permitted in this title.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the front of the lot between the side
property lines and lying between the front lot line and the nearest line of the
building.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of the lot between the side
property lines and lying between the rear lot line and the nearest line of the
building.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the side line and the nearest line of the building
and extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line.
ZONING DISTRICT: An area within the limits of the zoning jurisdiction for which
the regulations and requirements governing use, lot and bulk of structures and
premises are uniform. (Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016; amd. Ord. 2017-007, 8-1-2017;
Ord. 2018-001, 1-2-2018; Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019; Ord. 2020-006, 7-21-
2020;Ord. 2022-016, 11-15-2022; Ord. 2023-009, 7-18-2023; Ord. 2024-015, 10-15-
2024; Ord. 2024-018, 12-3-2024; Ord. 2025-004, 2-18-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 12 of this code.
2 1. The definition of "lot area, net buildable" is more limiting as other
  deductions are included.
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Use Districts; Purpose
10-3-2: Zoning Districts And Shore Land Overlay District Maps
10-3-3: Zoning District Boundaries
10-3-4: Permitted Uses
10-3-1: USE DISTRICTS; PURPOSE:
   A.   Use Districts Established: The zoning districts designated herein are
hereby established so as to assist the city in carrying out the intent and
purpose of its comprehensive development plan and to control development in a
manner consistent with the provisions of adequate services and utilities. For
the purpose of this title, the area within the corporate limits of the city is
hereby divided into the following use districts: (Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
RR   Rural residential district
RS   Residential staging district
R-1  Low density residential district
R-1A Medium density single family residential district
R-2  Medium density residential district
R-3  High density residential district
C1   Neighborhood commercial district
C2   Regional commercial district
OS   Office service district
I    Industry office district
CI   Annexed commercial industrial district
PB   Public benefit district
MC   Memorial park/cemetery
CP   Community park
NP   Neighborhood park
P    Preservation
PU   Public use
SL   Shore land overlay district
 
   B.   Purpose Of Districts:
      1.   RR rural residential district:
         a.   To provide for long term rural residential development.
         b.   To allow compatible residential development.
         c.   To maintain density limitations.
         d.   To allow development that will not need central sewer service in
the future.
         e.   To preserve open space.
         f.   To prohibit development of intensive irrigated agriculture and
feedlots.
      2.   RS residential staging district:
         a.   To provide a staging zone of rural property until a landowner/
developer makes application to rezone to develop property, at which time the
city may rezone property if the application is consistent with the
comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance and does not result in the premature
extension of public utilities, roads, facilities and services.
         b.   To allow compatible residential development.
         c.   To maintain density limitations.
         d.   To allow staging of rural residential development to transition
to future urban development with public utilities, roads, facilities and
services.
         e.   To preserve open space.
      3.   R-1 low density residential district:
         a.   To establish areas for the development of single-family detached
housing at a maximum density of up to three (3) units per net acre.
         b.   To reserve development areas for single-family housing.
         c.   To restrict encroachment of incompatible uses.
         d.   To maintain density limitations.
         e.   To take advantage of municipal utilities.
         f.   To preserve open space.
      4.   R-1A medium density single family residential district:
         a.   To establish areas for the development of higher density with
single-family detached housing than with the R-1 district.
         b.   To reserve development areas for single family housing.
         c.   To restrict encroachment of incompatible uses.
         d.   To maintain density limitations.
         e.   To take advantage of municipal utilities.
         f.   To preserve open space.
      5.   R-2 medium density residential district:
         a.   To establish areas for the development of single- and two- family
housing at a maximum density of up to seven (7) units per net acre.
         b.   To reserve development areas for housing.
         c.   To restrict encroachment of incompatible uses.
         d.   To maintain density limitations.
         e.   To take advantage of municipal utilities.
         f.   To preserve open space.
      6.   R-3 high density residential district:
         a.   To establish areas for development of multiple dwelling
structures with a maximum density of twenty (20) units per net acre.
         b.   To permit the most intensive residential development allowed in
the city.
         c.   To maintain an essentially residential character in areas
developed at a more intensive density.
         d.   To take advantage of municipal utilities.
         e.   To preserve open space.
      7.   C1 neighborhood commercial district:
         a.   To minimize the effects of traffic congestion, noise, odor, glare
and similar safety problems.
         b.   To provide a district which is related to and may reasonably
adjoin high density or other residential districts.
         c.   To meet the shopping and service needs of surrounding
neighborhoods and highway users.
      8.   C2 regional commercial district:
         a.   To meet retail shopping needs of the regional trade area by
providing a district that will accommodate a wide range of retail goods and
services.
         b.   To promote business prosperity by creating an attractive and
functional retail center.
         c.   To provide an integrated retail trade center that groups
compatible retail uses.
         d.   To group compatible retail and service business uses which will
tend to draw trade that is naturally interchangeable and so promote business
prosperity.
         e.   To produce a positive visual image by establishing a high
standard of design and development.
         f.   To allow transitional uses that will allow an orderly phasing out
of existing uses and development that are not appropriate in a contemporary
retail center and a phasing in of uses and development as warranted by market
conditions.
         g.   To encourage grouping of uses that are mutually supportive and
have similar requirements for vehicular and pedestrian accessibility and
exposure.
         h.   To alleviate potential traffic congestion on local streets and
adjacent highways by the design of the circulation pattern and arrangement of
uses.
      9.   OS office service district:
         a.   To accommodate an adequate supply of businesses and services that
serve the community and motorists traveling through the community with a broad
range of services and goods.
         b.   To provide locations for uses that may be incompatible with
retail centers, thereby keeping the retail centers compact and convenient.
         c.   To keep services in close proximity to arterial streets or
highways in areas that are appropriately designated on the comprehensive plan.
         d.   To encourage grouping of compatible and mutually supportive
business uses and services.
         e.   To promote business prosperity.
         f.   To establish a high standard of development and design that
produces a positive visual image and minimizes the effects of traffic
congestion, noise, odor, and glare.
         g.   To ensure acceptable traffic operations on local streets.
         h.   To promote flexibility in land uses and site development
standards to achieve the purposes of the district.
         i.   To encourage open space.
      10.   I industry office district:
         a.   To provide an area where more intensive light industrial land
uses may locate.
         b.   To present the least deleterious effect to adjacent, less
intensive land uses.
         c.   To encourage grouping of uses with similar requirements for
service provisions.
         d.   To promote business prosperity by concentrating like uses and
promoting business interaction.
      11.   PB public benefit district:
         a.   MC memorial park/cemetery district: To allow for memorial parks/
cemeteries as places to deposit deceased human remains and provide for an area
to remember past generations in a pleasurable setting.
         b.   CP community park district: To allow the construction and
maintenance of community parks which are designed and intended to serve the
entire community with a broad range of recreation opportunities.
         c.   NP neighborhood park district: To allow for construction and
maintenance of neighborhood parks which are designed and intended for limited
recreation needs of a neighborhood.
         d.   P preservation district: To allow the preservation of
representative samples of ecologically significant land and the diversity of
life it supports.
         e.   PU public use district:
            (1)   To allow water treatment and supply and sewer facilities.
            (2)   To reserve and manage public land for future public benefit.
      12.   SL shore land overlay district:
         a.   To provide guidance for the wise development of shore lands of
public waters and thus preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters.
         b.   To preserve the economic and natural environmental values of
shore lands.
         c.   To provide for the wise use of water and related land resources
of the state. (Ord. 8, 12-17-1996; amd. Ord. 2010-6, 5-4-2010; Ord. 2016-035,
6-21-2016; Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019)
10-3-2: ZONING DISTRICTS AND SHORE LAND OVERLAY DISTRICT MAPS:
The boundaries of the districts as established by this title are as shown on
the map designated as the zoning district map. A permanent and updated copy of
the zoning district map shall be filed with the clerk. Zoning district
designation amendments shall be noted on the official map. The boundaries of
the shore land overlay district are described as lands located within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the ordinary high water mark of a lake or three
hundred feet (300') of a river or stream, as shown on the map designated as the
shore land overlay district map. A permanent and updated copy of the shore land
overlay district map shall be filed with the clerk. (Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
10-3-3: ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The district boundary lines are intended to follow street and highway right of
way lines; street and highway centerlines, lot and property or section lines,
unless a boundary line is otherwise indicated on the map. In the case of
unsubdivided property or in any case where street or lot lines are not used as
boundaries, the district boundary lines shall be determined by the dimensions
appearing on the map or those scaled from the map. (Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
10-3-4: PERMITTED USES:
All permitted uses in any zoning district shall be located in a structure that
meets all the requirements set forth in this title. A lot must first have a
permitted use located in a structure that meets all the requirements of this
title in order to have any accessory, conditional, or interim use. No
structure, building or tract of land shall be devoted to any use other than a
use permitted hereinafter in the zoning district in which such structure, or
tract of land shall be located, with the following exceptions:
   A.   Existing Uses: Uses already established before the effective date
hereof and rendered nonconforming by the provisions thereof shall be subject to
those regulations governing nonconforming uses.
   B.   Public Utility; Essential Services: Permitted uses in all districts
shall include public utility uses and essential services not involving open
storage or structures with a floor of more than twenty four (24) square feet.
(Ord. 2010-16, 12-20-2010)
ARTICLE A. RR RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Permitted Uses
10-3A-2: Accessory Uses
10-3A-3: Conditional Uses
10-3A-4: Interim Uses
10-3A-5: Lot Area, Height, Lot Width And Yard Requirements
10-3A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Civic buildings such as city halls, fire stations and similar uses (without
outside storage).
Essential services.
Fish, wildlife, sustainable yield forest management and similar uses.
Harvesting of wild crops.
Hunting in compliance with section
5-1-4 of this code, fishing, trapping and similar uses.
One-family detached dwelling.
Public parks and similar uses. (Ord. 2013-25, 12-17-2013)
10-3A-2: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses incidental and customary to principal uses allowed in section
10-3A-1 of this article.
Accessory structures as regulated by section
10-5-9, "Accessory Structures", of this title.
Agricultural uses.
Chicken keeping of up to four (4) hen chickens for noncommercial purposes in
compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
Daycare facility accessory to a one-family detached dwelling as defined by
statute and licensed by the state.
Domestic animal keeping for noncommercial purposes in compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
Home occupations pursuant to title 3, chapter 9 of this code.
Off street parking, loading and service entrances as regulated in sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
Residential care facility accessory to a one-family detached dwelling, serving
six (6) or fewer individuals as defined by statute and licensed by the state.
Signs as regulated by section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use subject
to title 9, chapter 4 and section
9-4-3 of this code. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; amd. Ord. 2020-006, 7-21-2020)
10-3A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Apartment accessory to a one-family detached dwelling.
   A.   The one-family detached dwelling is owner occupied.
   B.   The accessory apartment is in the principal building.
   C.   The apartment accessory use shall be clearly incidental and
subordinate.
   D.   There shall be no separate ownership of the apartment accessory use.
   E.   Only one such apartment shall be permitted in a one- family dwelling.
Essential service structures.
   A.   No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line of
an abutting lot in an R District.
Relocation of a previously occupied house within the City pursuant to
subsection 10-1-3D7, "Moving Or Relocating Buildings", of this title and
complies with conditions in the "Baxter House Moving Policy Manual" as may be
amended.
School.
   A.   Provided no building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any
lot line.
   B.   The site shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a
collector or arterial roadway.
   C.   A master plan shall be submitted that describes proposed physical
development for the next ten (10) years. Said plan shall include a description
of proposed development phases and plans, development priorities, the probable
sequence of proposed development, estimated dates of construction and the
anticipated interim use of property waiting to be developed.
   D.   A transportation management plan shall be submitted to address off
street parking, bus loading and unloading, traffic control, and the impact of
the facility on surrounding roadways. (Ord. 2013-25, 12-17-2013; amd. Ord.
2018-006, 4-17-2018)
10-3A-4: INTERIM USES:
Animal kennels in compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
   A.   Animal kennels shall be at least three hundred feet (300') from any
property line.
Farm animal keeping accessory to an allowed principal use in compliance with
section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
   A.   Farm animal keeping shall be at least three hundred feet (300') from
any property line.
Stables; commercial and private in compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
   A.   Commercial and private stables shall be at least three hundred feet
(300') from any property line. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
10-3A-5: LOT AREA, HEIGHT, LOT WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area Requirements: The following requirements shall be met in the F
District. Properties may be subject to special requirements as noted in article
L, "SL Shore Land Overlay District", of this chapter.
 Without Public Sewer And Water
                                      Without Public Sewer And Water
Minimum lot size                      10 acres
Minimum lot width                     200 feet interior
                                      220 feet corner
Minimum principal structure setbacks:  
Front yard                            40 feet
Side yard                             30 feet interior
                                      40 feet abutting corner
Rear yard                             30 feet
Minimum accessory structure setbacks:  
Front yard                            40 feet
Side yard                             10 feet interior
                                      40 feet abutting corner
Rear yard                             10 feet
Maximum lot coverage                  15 percent
Maximum building height               35 feet
 
(Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016)
ARTICLE B. RS RESIDENTIAL STAGING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3B-1: Permitted Uses
10-3B-2: Accessory Uses
10-3B-3: Conditional Uses
10-3B-4: Interim Uses
10-3B-5: Lot Area, Height, Lot Width And Yard Requirements
10-3B-1: PERMITTED USES:
Civic buildings such as city halls, fire stations and similar uses (without
outside storage).
Essential services.
Fish, wildlife, sustainable yield forest management and similar uses.
One-family detached dwelling.
Public parks and similar uses. (Ord. 2013-25, 12-17-2013)
10-3B-2: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses incidental and customary to principal uses allowed in section
10-3B-1 of this article.
Accessory structures as regulated by section
10-5-9, "Accessory Structures", of this title.
Agricultural uses.
Chicken keeping of up to four (4) hen chickens for noncommercial purposes in
compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
Daycare facility accessory to a one-family detached dwelling as defined by
statute and licensed by the state.
Domestic animal keeping for noncommercial purposes in compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
Home occupations pursuant to title 3, chapter 9 of this code.
Off street parking, loading and service entrances as regulated in sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
Outdoor retail sales of agricultural products provided the products are, at
least in part, raised on the premises.
Residential care facility accessory to a one-family detached dwelling, serving
six (6) or fewer individuals as defined by statute and licensed by the state.
Signs as regulated by section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use subject
to title 9, chapter 4 and section
9-4-3 of this code. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; amd. Ord. 2020-006, 7-21-2020)
10-3B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Apartment accessory to a one-family detached dwelling.
   A.   The one-family detached dwelling is owner occupied.
   B.   The accessory apartment is in the principal building.
   C.   The apartment accessory use shall be clearly incidental and
subordinate.
   D.   There shall be no separate ownership of the apartment accessory use.
   E.   Only one such apartment shall be permitted in a one-family dwelling.
Columbarium accessory to a religious institution pursuant to the following:
   A.   Columbaria shall be screened from adjoining residential properties.
   B.   All portions of the use shall meet the minimum district setback
requirements for principal structures.
   C.   All portions of the use shall be setback a minimum of ten (10) feet
from any wetland and shall be located outside of easements, except as approved
by the city.
Commercial recreation, outdoor (e.g., golf courses, country clubs, public
swimming pools and similar uses).
   A.   Accessory structures shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from any
lot line.
   B.   The principal structure shall be one hundred feet (100') or more from
any abutting lot in an R District.
   C.   When abutting a residential use or district, the property shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
Essential service structures.
   A.   No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line of
an abutting lot in an R District.
Garden center and landscape nursery.
   A.   All structures shall be set back at least one hundred feet (100') from
any residential property line.
   B.   Lighting shall comply with all ordinance requirements. If more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the greenhouse spaces are to be lit at night, they
shall be screened from residential properties by use of a retractable curtain,
landscaping, buildings or other methods to prevent light pollution, including
sky glow.
   C.   On site storage and use of pesticides and fertilizers shall meet the
standards of the Minnesota Department of Agriculture.
   D.   When abutting a residential use or district, the property shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
Religious institutions.
   A.   No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line.
Relocation of a previously occupied house within the City pursuant to
subsection
10-1-3D7, "Moving Or Relocating Buildings", of this title and complies with
conditions in the "Baxter House Moving Policy Manual" as may be amended.
School.
   A.   Provided no building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any
lot line.
   B.   The site shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a
collector or arterial roadway.
   C.   A master plan shall be submitted that describes proposed physical
development for the next ten (10) years. Said plan shall include a description
of proposed development phases and plans, development priorities, the probable
sequence of proposed development, estimated dates of construction and the
anticipated interim use of property waiting to be developed.
   D.   A transportation management plan shall be submitted to address off
street parking, bus loading and unloading, traffic control, and the impact of
the facility on surrounding roadways. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; amd. Ord. 2018-
006, 4-17-2018; Ord. 2024-015, 10-15-2024)
10-3B-4: INTERIM USES:
Animal kennels in compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
   A.   Animal kennels shall be at least three hundred feet (300') from any
property line.
Farm animal keeping accessory to an allowed principal use in compliance with
section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
   A.   Farm animal keeping shall be at least three hundred feet (300') from
any property line.
Stables; commercial and private in compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
   A.   Commercial and private stables shall be at least three hundred feet
(300') from any property line. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
10-3B-5: LOT AREA, HEIGHT, LOT WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area Requirements: The following requirements shall be met in the RS
District. Properties may be subject to special requirements as noted in article
L, "SL Shore Land Overlay District", of this chapter.
 Without Public Sewer And Water
                                      Without Public Sewer And Water
Minimum lot size                      10 acres
Minimum lot width                     200 feet interior
                                      220 feet corner
Minimum principal structure setbacks:  
Front yard                            40 feet
Side yard                             30 feet interior
                                      40 feet abutting corner
Rear yard                             30 feet
Minimum accessory structure setbacks:  
Front yard                            40 feet
Side yard                             10 feet interior
                                      40 feet abutting corner
Rear yard                             10 feet
Maximum lot coverage                  20 percent
Maximum building height               35 feet
 
(Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019)
ARTICLE C. R-1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3C-1: Permitted Uses
10-3C-2: Accessory Uses
10-3C-3: Conditional Uses
10-3C-4: Interim Uses
10-3C-5: Lot Area, Height, Lot Width And Yard Requirements
10-3C-1: PERMITTED USES:
Essential services.
One-family detached dwelling.
Public parks and similar uses. (Ord. 2013-25, 12-17-2013)
10-3C-2: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses incidental and customary to principal uses allowed in section
10-3C-1 of this article.
Accessory structures as regulated by section
10-5-9, "Accessory Structures", of this title.
Chicken keeping of up to four (4) hen chickens for noncommercial purposes in
compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
Daycare facility accessory to a one-family detached dwelling as defined by
statute and licensed by the state.
Domestic animal keeping for noncommercial purposes in compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
Home occupations pursuant to title 3, chapter 9 of this code.
Off street parking, loading and service entrances as regulated in sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
Residential care facility accessory to a one-family detached dwelling, serving
six (6) or fewer individuals as defined by statute and licensed by the state.
Signs as regulated by section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use subject
to title 9, chapter 4 and section
9-4-3 of this code. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; amd. Ord. 2020-006, 7-21-2020)
10-3C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Apartment accessory to a one-family detached dwelling.
   A.   The one-family detached dwelling is owner occupied.
   B.   The accessory apartment is in the principal building.
   C.   The apartment accessory use shall be clearly incidental and
subordinate.
   D.   There shall be no separate ownership of the apartment accessory use.
   E.   Only one such apartment shall be permitted in a one-family dwelling.
Civic buildings such as city halls, fire stations and similar uses (without
outside storage).
Columbarium accessory to a religious institution pursuant to the following:
   A.   Columbaria shall be screened from adjoining residential properties.
   B.   All portions of the use shall meet the minimum district setback
requirements for principal structures.
   C.   All portions of the use shall be setback a minimum of ten (10) feet
from any wetland and shall be located outside of easements, except as approved
by the city.
Commercial recreation, outdoor (e.g., golf courses, country clubs and similar
uses).
   A.   Accessory structure shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from any lot
line.
   B.   The principal structure for any of the above listed uses shall be one
hundred feet (100') or more from any abutting lot in an R district.
   C.   When abutting a residential use or district, the property shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
Essential service structures.
   A.   No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line of
an abutting lot in an R District.
Garden center and landscape nursery.
   A.   All structures shall be set back at least one hundred feet (100') from
any residential property line.
   B.   Lighting shall comply with all ordinance requirements. If more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the greenhouse spaces are to be lit at night, they
shall be screened from residential properties by use of a retractable curtain,
landscaping, buildings or other methods to prevent light pollution, including
sky glow.
   C.   On site storage and use of pesticides and fertilizers shall meet the
standards of the Minnesota Department of Agriculture.
   D.   When abutting a residential use or district, the property shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
Religious institutions.
   A.   No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line.
Relocation of a previously occupied house within the City pursuant to
subsection
10-1-3D7, "Moving Or Relocating Buildings", of this title and complies with
conditions in the "Baxter House Moving Policy Manual" as may be amended.
School.
   A.   Provided no building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any
lot line.
   B.   The site shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a
collector or arterial roadway.
   C.   A master plan shall be submitted that describes proposed physical
development for the next ten (10) years. Said plan shall include a description
of proposed development phases and plans, development priorities, the probable
sequence of proposed development, estimated dates of construction and the
anticipated interim use of property waiting to be developed. A transportation
management plan shall be submitted to address off street parking, bus loading
and unloading, traffic control, and the impact of the facility on surrounding
roadways. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; amd. Ord. 2015-06, 3-17-2015; Ord. 2018-
006, 4-17-2018; Ord. 2024-015, 10-15-2024)
10-3C-4: INTERIM USES:
Accessory building as a principal use.
   A.   The accessory building is located on a parcel of land adjacent to a
parcel of land where the landowner's home is located.
   B.   Both parcels shall be under the same ownership.
   C.   Only one accessory building shall be allowed on the lot.
   D.   The accessory building is used for a private garage or storage space
and under no circumstances is used for commercial storage or operations or
residential living space.
   E.   The garage shall be designed for the future addition of a home in
compliance with all Zoning and Building Code requirements. Such items shall
include, but are not limited to, placement on the lot, architectural design and
construction of the accessory building with footings to accommodate a home
addition in the future. Plans shall be submitted for City review and approval
to ensure compliance with the purpose and intent of this section as part of the
interim use permit application.
   F.   The landowner agrees to pay the full future assessment on the lot where
the accessory building is located as a principal use.
   G.   The accessory building as a principal use is intended to be an interim
situation. As a condition of approval the landowner agrees to either demolish
the accessory building as part of the land sale or agrees to construct a new
home on the lot with accessory building as principal use within six (6) months
of the land sale.
   H.   The landowner agrees as a condition of approval that the interim use
permit shall be terminated if either lot is sold separately or a new home is
constructed on the lot where the accessory building is located as a principal
use.
Stables; private in compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
   A.   Private stables shall be at least three hundred feet (300') from any
property line. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
10-3C-5: LOT AREA, HEIGHT, LOT WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   New Development: New development shall only be allowed when a full
range of municipal services and facilities are available to serve the site.
      1.   New development for lots without municipal services and facilities
of record pursuant to subsection 9-5-3B of this code, provided it complies with
subsection 10-1-3D8c, "Nonconforming Lots", of this title.
   B.   Area Requirements: The following requirements shall be met in the R-
1 district. Properties may be subject to special requirements as noted in
article L, "SL Shore Land Overlay District", of this chapter.
 Without Public Sewer And Water With Public Sewer And Water
                           Without Public Sewer And   With Public Sewer And
                           Water                      Water
                           Lot of record pursuant to
                           subsection 9-5-3B of this
Minimum lot size           code, provided it complies 15,000 square feet
                           with subsection 10-1-3D8c,
                           "Nonconforming Lots", of
                           this title
Minimum lot width                                    100 feet interior
                                                      120 feet corner
Minimum principal building                            
setbacks:
Front yard                                           40 feet
Side yard                                            10 feet interior
                                                      40 feet abutting corner
Rear yard                                            30 feet
Minimum accessory                                     
structure setbacks:
Front yard                                           40 feet
Side yard                                            10 feet interior
                                                      40 feet abutting corner
Rear yard                                            10 feet
Maximum lot coverage                                 40 percent
Maximum building height                              35 feet
 
(Ord. 2013-25, 12-17-2013; amd. Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016; Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-
2019)
ARTICLE C1. R-1A MEDIUM DENSITY SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3C1-1: Permitted Uses
10-3C1-2: Accessory Uses
10-3C1-3: Conditional Uses
10-3C1-4: Interim Uses
10-3C1-5: Lot Area, Height, Lot Width And Yard Requirements
10-3C1-1: PERMITTED USES:
Essential services.
One-family detached dwelling.
Public parks and similar uses. (Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019)
10-3C1-2:   ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses incidental and customary to principal uses allowed in section
10-3C1-1 of this article.
Accessory structures as regulated by section
10-5-9, "Accessory Structures", of this title.
Daycare facility accessory to a one-family detached dwelling as defined by
statute and licensed by the state.
Domestic animal keeping for non-commercial purposes in compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
Home occupations pursuant to title 3, chapter 9 of this code.
Off-street parking, loading and service entrances as regulated in sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
Residential care facility accessory to a one-family detached dwelling, serving
six (6) or fewer individuals as defined by statute and licensed by the state.
Signs as regulated by section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use subject
to title 9, chapter 4 and section
9-4-3 of this code. (Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019)
10-3C1-3:   CONDITIONAL USES:
Apartment accessory to a one-family detached dwelling.
      A.   The one-family detached dwelling is owner occupied.
      B.   The accessory apartment is in the principal building.
      C.   The apartment accessory use shall be clearly incidental and
subordinate.
      D.   There shall be no separate ownership of the apartment accessory use.
      E.   Only one such apartment shall be permitted in a one-family dwelling.
Civic buildings such as city halls, fire stations and similar uses (without
outside storage).
Columbarium accessory to a religious institution pursuant to the following:
      A.   Columbaria shall be screened from adjoining residential properties.
      B.   All portions of the use shall meet the minimum district setback
requirements for principal structures.
      C.   All portions of the use shall be setback a minimum of ten (10) feet
from any wetland and shall be located outside of easements, except as approved
by the city.
Commercial recreation, outdoor (for example, golf courses, country clubs and
similar uses).
      A.   Accessory structure shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from any
lot line.
      B.   The principal structure for any of the above listed uses shall be
one hundred feet (100') or more from any abutting lot in an R district.
      C.   When abutting a residential use or district, the property shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
Essential service structures.
      A.   No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line
of an abutting lot in an R district.
Garden center and landscape nursery.
      A.   All structures shall be set back at least one hundred feet (100')
from any residential property line.
      B.   Lighting shall comply with all ordinance requirements. If more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the greenhouse spaces are to be lit at night, they
shall be screened from residential properties by use of a retractable curtain,
landscaping, buildings or other methods to prevent light pollution, including
sky glow.
      C.   On-site storage and use of pesticides and fertilizers shall meet the
standards of the Minnesota department of agriculture.
      D.   When abutting a residential use or district, the property shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with section 10-4-8, "Screening/
Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
Religious institutions.
      A.   No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot
line.
Relocation of a previously occupied house within the city pursuant to
subsection 10-1-3D7, "Moving Or Relocating Buildings", of this title and
complies with conditions in the "Baxter House Moving Policy Manual" as may be
amended.
School.
      A.   Provided no building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any
lot line.
      B.   The site shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a
collector or arterial roadway.
      C.   A master plan shall be submitted that describes proposed physical
development for the next ten (10) years. Said plan shall include a description
of proposed development phases and plans, development priorities, the probable
sequence of proposed development, estimated dates of construction and the
anticipated interim use of property waiting to be developed. A transportation
management plan shall be submitted to address off-street parking, bus loading
and unloading, traffic control, and the impact of the facility on surrounding
roadways.
      D.   A transportation management plan shall be submitted to address off
street parking, bus loading and unloading, traffic control, and the impact of
the facility on surrounding roadways. (Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019; amd Ord. 2024-
015, 10-15-2024)
10-3C1-4:   INTERIM USES:
Accessory building as a principal use.
   A.   The accessory building is located on a parcel of land adjacent to a
parcel of land where the landowner's home is located.
   B.   Both parcels shall be under the same ownership.
   C.   Only one accessory building shall be allowed on the lot.
   D.   The accessory building is used for a private garage or storage space
and under no circumstances is used for commercial storage or operations or
residential living space.
   E.   The garage shall be designed for the future addition of a home in
compliance with all zoning and building code requirements. Such items shall
include, but are not limited to, placement on the lot, architectural design and
construction of the accessory building with footings to accommodate a home
addition in the future. Plans shall be submitted for city review and approval
to ensure compliance with the purpose and intent of this section as part of the
interim use permit application.
   F.   The landowner agrees to pay the full future assessment on lot where the
accessory building is located as a principal use.
   G.   The accessory building as a principal use is intended to be an interim
situation. As a condition of approval, the landowner agrees to either demolish
the accessory building as part of the land sale or agrees to construct a new
home on the lot with accessory building as principal use within six (6) months
of the land sale.
   H.   The landowner agrees as a condition of approval that the interim use
permit shall be terminated if either lot is sold separately or a new home is
constructed on the lot where the accessory building is located as a principal
use.
Stables; private in compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
   A.   Private stables shall be at least three hundred feet (300') from any
property line. (Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019)
10-3C1-5:   LOT AREA, HEIGHT, LOT WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   New Development: New development shall only be allowed when a full
range of municipal services and facilities are available to serve the site.
      1.   New development for lots without municipal services and facilities
of record pursuant to subsection
9-5-3B of this code, provided it complies with subsection 10-1-3D8c,
"Nonconforming Lots", of this title.
   B.   Area Requirements: The following requirements shall be met in the R-1A
district. Properties may be subject to special requirements as noted in article
L, "SL Shore Land Overlay District", of this chapter.
 
                                     With Public Sewer And Water
Minimum lot size                      12,500 square feet
Minimum lot width                     80 feet interior
                                      120 feet corner
Minimum principal building setbacks:   
   Front yard                      40 feet
   Side yard                       8 feet interior
   Rear yard                       40 feet abutting corner
                                      30 feet
Minimum accessory structure setbacks:  
   Front yard                      40 feet
   Side yard                       10 feet interior
   Rear yard                       40 feet abutting corner
                                      10 feet
Maximum lot coverage                  40 percent
Maximum building height               35 feet
 
(Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019)
ARTICLE D. R-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3D-1: Permitted Uses
10-3D-2: Accessory Uses
10-3D-3: Conditional Uses
10-3D-4: Interim Uses
10-3D-5: Lot Area, Height, Lot Width And Yard Requirements
10-3D-1: PERMITTED USES:
Civic buildings such as city halls, fire stations and similar uses (without
outside storage).
Essential services.
One-family detached dwelling.
Two-family dwelling.
Up to four-family dwelling or townhouses. (Ord. 2013-25, 12-17-2013)
10-3D-2: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses incidental and customary to principal uses allowed in section
10-3D-1 of this article.
Accessory structures as regulated by section
10-5-9, "Accessory Structures", of this title.
Daycare facility accessory to a one-family detached dwelling as defined by
statute and licensed by the state.
Domestic animal keeping for noncommercial purposes in compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
Home occupations pursuant to title 3, chapter 9 of this code.
Off street parking, loading and service entrances as regulated in sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
Residential care facility accessory to a one-family detached dwelling, serving
six (6) or fewer individuals as defined by statute and licensed by the state.
Signs as regulated by section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use subject
to title 9, chapter 4 and section
9-4-3 of this code. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
10-3D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Apartment accessory to a one-family detached dwelling.
   A.   The one-family detached dwelling is owner occupied.
   B.   The accessory apartment is in the principal building.
   C.   The apartment accessory use shall be clearly incidental and
subordinate.
   D.   There shall be no separate ownership of the apartment accessory use.
   E.   Only one such apartment shall be permitted in a one-family dwelling.
Columbarium accessory to a religious institution pursuant to the following:
   A.   Columbaria shall be screened from adjoining residential properties.
   B.   All portions of the use shall meet the minimum district setback
requirements for principal structures.
   C.   All portions of the use shall be setback a minimum of ten (10) feet
from any wetland and shall be located outside of easements, except as approved
by the city.
Essential service structures.
   A.   No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line of
an abutting lot in any R district.
Manufactured home parks pursuant to section
10-5-6, "Manufactured Homes And Recreational Camping Vehicles", of this title.
   A.   The use on land that is at least ten (10) acres, excluding roads.
Religious institutions.
   A.   No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line.
Relocation of a previously occupied house within the City pursuant to
subsection 10-1-3D7, "Moving Or Relocating Buildings", of this title and
complies with conditions in the "Baxter House Moving Policy Manual" as may be
amended.
Rest homes or nursing homes.
   A.   When directly abutting an R-1 or R-2 District, the building setbacks
from those property lines shall be an additional ten feet (10') for every story
or fifteen feet (15') in building height.
   B.   All parking (driveways, aisles, etc.) shall be at least twenty feet
(20') set back from those property lines.
   C.   An off street rider drop off and pick up drive is required.
School.
   A.   Provided no building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any
lot line.
   B.   The site shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a
collector or arterial roadway.
   C.   A master plan shall be submitted that describes proposed physical
development for the next ten (10) years. Said plan shall include a description
of proposed development phases and plans, development priorities, the probable
sequence of proposed development, estimated dates of construction and the
anticipated interim use of property waiting to be developed.
   D.   A transportation management plan shall be submitted to address off
street parking, bus loading and unloading, traffic control, and the impact of
the facility on surrounding roadways.
Seasonal recreational camping vehicle park (SRCVP) pursuant to title 3, chapter
19 of this Code.
   A.   The site is a minimum of twenty five (25) acres and is directly served
by a collector street or greater road.
   B.   The development will have at least fifty percent (50%) open space.
   C.   The facility is under the management of an existing lodging facility
located less than one-fourth (1/4) mile away or has on site management
acceptable to the City or provides an alternative management system approved by
the City.
   D.   The site is served by City sewer and water.
   E.   Licensing requirements of title 3, chapter 19 of this Code are met.
   F.   Any required State licenses are obtained and kept current.
   G.   The development complies with the "Baxter Seasonal Recreational Camping
Vehicle Park Policy Manual" and employs low impact development design as
determined by the City. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; amd. Ord. 2015-06, 3-17-2015;
Ord. 2018-006, 4-17-2018; Ord. 2024-015, 10-15-2024)
10-3D-4: INTERIM USES:
Buildings temporarily located for purposes of construction on the premises for
a period not to exceed time necessary to complete said construction.
   A.   All Building and Safety Codes are met. (Ord. 2013-25, 12-17-2013)
10-3D-5: LOT AREA, HEIGHT, LOT WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area Requirements: The following requirements shall be met in the R-
2 District. New development shall only be allowed when a full range of
Municipal services and facilities are available to serve the site. Properties
may be subject to special requirements as noted in article L, "SL Shore Land
Overlay District", of this chapter.
  With Public
  Sewer And Water
                                      With Public
                                      Sewer And Water
Minimum lot size                      25,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                     100 feet interior
                                      120 feet corner
Minimum principal structure setbacks:  
 Front yard                          40 feet
 Side yard                           10 feet interior
                                      40 feet abutting corner
 Rear yard                           30 feet
Minimum accessory structure setbacks:  
 Front yard                          40 feet
 Side yard                           10 feet interior
                                      40 feet abutting corner
 Rear yard                           10 feet
Maximum lot coverage                  50 percent
Maximum building height               35 feet
 
(Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016)
ARTICLE E. R-3 HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3E-1: Permitted Uses
10-3E-2: Accessory Uses
10-3E-3: Conditional Uses
10-3E-4: Interim Uses
10-3E-5: Lot Area, Height, Lot Width And Yard Requirements
10-3E-1: PERMITTED USES:
Civic buildings such as city halls, fire stations and similar uses (without
outside storage).
Essential services.
Public parks and similar uses.
Two-family dwelling.
Up to four-family dwelling or townhouses.
Up to fifty-family dwelling. (Ord. 2013-25, 12-17-2013)
10-3E-2: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses incidental and customary to principal uses allowed in section
10-3E-1 of this article.
Accessory structures as regulated by section
10-5-9, "Accessory Structures", of this title.
Daycare facility accessory to a one-family detached dwelling as defined by
statute and licensed by the state.
Domestic animal keeping for noncommercial purposes in compliance with section
10-5-10, "Animals", of this title.
Home occupations pursuant to title 3, chapter 9 of this code.
Off street parking, loading and service entrances as regulated in sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
Residential care facility accessory to a one-family detached dwelling, serving
six (6) or fewer individuals as defined by statute and licensed by the state.
Signs as regulated by section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use subject
to title 9, chapter 4 and section
9-4-3 of this code. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
10-3E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Columbarium accessory to a religious institution pursuant to the following:
   A.   Columbaria shall be screened from adjoining residential properties.
   B.   All portions of the use shall meet the minimum district setback
requirements for principal structures.
   C.   All portions of the use shall be setback a minimum of ten (10) feet
from any wetland and shall be located outside of easements, except as approved
by the city.
Commercial recreation, outdoor (e.g., golf courses, country clubs and similar
uses).
   A.   Accessory structures shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from any
lot line.
   B.   The principal structure for any of the above listed uses shall be one
hundred feet (100') or more from any abutting lot in an R district.
   C.   When abutting a residential use or district, the property shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
Daycare facility accessory to a multi-family dwelling, serving thirteen (13) to
sixteen (16) individuals, licensed by the state.
Essential service structures.
   A.   No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line of
an abutting lot in an R district.
Manufactured home parks pursuant to section
12-1-10, "Manufactured Homes And Recreational Vehicles", of this Code.
   A.   The use on land that is at least ten (10) acres, excluding roads.
Religious institutions.
   A.   No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line.
Relocation of a previously occupied house within the City pursuant to
subsection
10-1-3D7, "Moving Or Relocating Buildings", of this title and complies with
conditions in the "Baxter House Moving Policy Manual" as may be amended.
Residential care facilities accessory to a multi-family dwelling, serving seven
(7) to sixteen (16) individuals, licensed by the State.
Rest homes, nursing homes, and assisted living facilities.
   A.   When directly abutting an R-1 or R-2 District, the building setbacks
from those property lines shall be an additional ten feet (10') for every story
or fifteen feet (15') in building height.
   B.   All parking (driveways, aisles, etc.) shall be at least twenty feet
(20') set back from those property lines.
   C.   An off street rider drop off and pick up drive is required.
School.
   A.   Provided no building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any
lot line.
   B.   The site shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a
collector or arterial roadway.
   C.   A master plan shall be submitted that describes proposed physical
development for the next ten (10) years. Said plan shall include a description
of proposed development phases and plans, development priorities, the probable
sequence of proposed development, estimated dates of construction and the
anticipated interim use of property waiting to be developed.
   D.   A transportation management plan shall be submitted to address off
street parking, bus loading and unloading, traffic control, and the impact of
the facility on surrounding roadways. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; amd. Ord. 2015-
06, 3-17-2015; Ord. 2017-009, 7-18-2017; Ord. 2018-006, 4-17-2018; Ord. 2023-
013, 9-19-2023; Ord. 2024-015, 10-15-2024)
10-3E-4: INTERIM USES:
Buildings temporarily located for purposes of construction on the premises for
a period not to exceed time necessary to complete said construction.
   A.   All Building and Safety Codes are met. (Ord. 2013-25, 12-17-2013)
10-3E-5: LOT AREA, HEIGHT, LOT WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area Requirements: The following requirements shall be met in the R-
3 District. New development shall only be allowed when a full range of
Municipal services and facilities are available to serve the site. Properties
may be subject to special requirements as noted in article L, "SL Shore Land
Overlay District", of this chapter.
  With Public
  Sewer And Water
                                      With Public
                                      Sewer And Water
Minimum lot size                      25,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                     100 feet interior
                                      120 feet corner
Minimum principal building setbacks:   
 Front yard                          40 feet
 Side yard                           10 feet interior
                                      40 feet abutting corner
 Rear yard                           30 feet
Minimum accessory structure setbacks:  
 Front yard                          40 feet
 Side yard                           10 feet interior
                                      40 feet abutting corner
 Rear yard                           10 feet
Maximum lot coverage                  50 percent
Maximum building height               45 feet
 
(Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016)
ARTICLE F. C1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3F-1: Permitted Uses
10-3F-2: Accessory Uses
10-3F-3: Conditional Uses
10-3F-4: Interim Uses
10-3F-5: Lot Area, Height, Lot Width And Yard Requirements
10-3F-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following neighborhood retail sales and service businesses with a ground
floor footprint of thirty thousand (30,000) square feet or less supplying
commodities or performing a service primarily for residents of the surrounding
neighborhood:
Bakeries; retail.
Banks, savings and loans, credit unions and the like (without drive-through).
Barbershops, beauty shops; other personal service uses.
Civic buildings such as city halls, fire stations and the like (without outside
storage).
Clinics including multispecialty outpatient clinic.
Convenience stores (without motor fuel stations).
Copy/printing services (excluding printing presses and publishing facilities).
Drugstores and pharmacies (without drive-through).
Dry cleaning and laundry pick ups, self-service laundromats, incidental
pressing, tailoring, repair and the like (without dry cleaning processing).
Essential services.
Fitness centers and fitness related studios such as karate, yoga, dance and the
like (less than 5,000 square feet in size).
Florists, hobby, craft or variety stores and the like.
Hardware stores.
Offices; professional and medical.
Restaurants (without drive-through).
Studios; art related.
Retail goods and services of a similar nature, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator. (Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019)
10-3F-2: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses incidental and customary to uses allowed in section
10-3F-1, "Permitted Uses", of this article shall not occupy more than thirty
percent (30%) of the gross floor area of the principal building.
Accessory structures as regulated by section
10-5-9, "Accessory Structures", of this title.
Adult use, accessory pursuant to title 3, chapter 4 of this Code.
Off street parking, loading and service entrances as regulated in sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
Signs as regulated by section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use subject
to title 9, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019)
10-3F-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses, subject to the conditions outlined in
section
10-7-4 of this title and the specific standards and criteria that may be cited
for a specific use:
   Adult use, principal, pursuant to title 3, chapter 4 of this Code.
   Car washes.
      A.   The site shall provide stacking space for the car wash. The amount
of stacking space shall take into account the type of car wash and the amount
of time it takes to wash a vehicle. Stacking spaces shall not interfere with
parking spaces or traffic circulation.
      B.   The exit from the car wash shall have a drainage system which is
subject to the approval of the City and gives special consideration to the
prevention of ice buildup during winter months.
      C.   Hours of operation shall be limited to between seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. daily.
      D.   A bypass lane shall be provided for each drive-through use, allowing
cars to leave the drive-through lane from the stacking area.
   Columbarium accessory to a religious institution pursuant to the following:
      A.   Columbaria shall be screened from adjoining residential properties.
      B.   All portions of the use shall meet the minimum district setback
requirements for principal structures.
      C.   All portions of the use shall be setback a minimum of ten (10) feet
from any wetland and shall be located outside of easements, except as approved
by the city.
   Daycare facility provided:
      A.   Unless exempted by the Zoning Administrator, where an outdoor play
area of a daycare facility abuts any commercial or industrial use or zone, or
public right-of-way, the daycare facility shall provide screening along the
shared boundary of such uses, zones or public rights-of-way. All of the
required fencing and screening shall comply with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
      B.   There shall be adequate off street parking which shall be located
separately from any outdoor play area. Parking areas shall be screened from
view of surrounding and adjoining residential uses in compliance with section
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", of this title.
      C.   When a daycare facility is an accessory use within a structure
containing another principal use, parking for each use shall be calculated
separately for determining the total off street parking spaces required. An
exception to this requirement may be granted by the Zoning Administrator in
instances where no increase in off street parking demand will result.
      D.   Off street loading space in compliance with section
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
      E.   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
      F.   The structure and operation shall be in compliance with State of
Minnesota Department of Human Services regulations and shall be licensed
accordingly.
   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
   Motor fuel stations in compliance with section
10-5-8, "Motor Fuel Stations", of this title and the following:
      A.   Application Requirements: That the area and location of space
devoted to nonautomotive merchandise sales shall be specified in the
application and in the conditional use permit. Exterior sales or storage shall
be only as allowed by the conditional use permit and shall be limited to ten
percent (10%) of the gross floor area of its associated principal use.
      B.   Separation Of Spaces: The off street loading space(s) and building
access for delivery of goods shall be separate from customer parking and
entrances and shall not cause conflicts with customer vehicles and pedestrian
movements.
      C.   Installations: Motor fuel facilities shall be installed in
accordance with State and City standards. Additionally, adequate space shall be
provided to access gas pumps and to allow maneuverability around the pumps.
Underground fuel storage tanks are to be positioned to allow adequate access by
motor fuel transports and unloading operations which do not conflict with
circulation, access and other activities on the site. Fuel pumps shall be
installed on pump islands.
      D.   Compliance: All buildings, canopies, and pump islands shall be
located to comply with the minimum setback requirements of the C1 District.
      E.   Canopy Lighting: All canopy lighting for motor fuel station pump
islands shall be recessed or shielded to provide a ninety degree (90°) cutoff.
Illumination levels for pump islands shall not exceed thirty (30) foot-candles.
      F.   Litter Control: The operation shall be responsible for litter
control within three hundred feet (300') of the premises and litter control is
to occur on a daily basis. Trash receptacles must be provided at a convenient
location on site to facilitate litter control.
   Multi-business signs, as regulated in section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
   Pet daycare and overnight boarding (cats and dogs), provided:
      A.   The daycare/overnight boarding facility, including any outdoor play
area, is located at least three hundred feet (300') from any property zoned as
residential in the City's Zoning Map or guided as residential in the City's
Future Land Use Map.
      B.   An eight foot (8') solid fence is constructed to fully enclose any
outdoor play and potty areas.
      C.   All pets are kept indoors for overnight boarding.
      D.   The daycare/boarding facility shall be in compliance with section of
this title.
   Religious institutions.
      A.   No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot
line.
   Veterinary; related indoor kennels provided:
      A.   All pens or cages must be completely enclosed within a building with
the exception of incidental run areas that shall be limited to ten percent
(10%) of the gross floor area of its associated principal use, to a maximum of
five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      B.   All indoor activities shall include soundproofing and odor control.
      C.   When abutting a residential use or district, the property shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
   Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use
subject to title 9, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; amd. Ord.
2015-06, 3-17-2015; Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019; Ord. 2023-013, 9-19-2023; Ord.
2024-015, 10-15-2024)
10-3F-4: INTERIM USES:
The following are interim uses, subject to the conditions outlined in chapter 7
of this title, interim uses, and the specific standards and criteria that may
be cited for a specific use:
Buildings temporarily located for purposes of construction on the premises for
a period not to exceed time necessary to complete said construction.
   A.   All Building and Safety Codes are met. (Ord. 2013-20, 11-19-2013)
10-3F-5: LOT AREA, HEIGHT, LOT WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area Requirements: The following requirements shall be met in the C1
District. New development shall only be allowed when a full range of Municipal
services and facilities are available to serve the site. Properties may be
subject to special requirements as noted in article L, "SL Shore Land Overlay
District", of this chapter.
  With Public
  Sewer And Water
                                                  With Public
                                                  Sewer And Water
Minimum lot size                                  20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                                 100 feet interior
                                                  120 feet corner
Minimum principal structure setbacks:              
 Front yard                                      30 feet
 Side yard                                       10 feet interior
                                                  30 feet abutting corner
 Rear yard                                       30 feet
Minimum accessory structure setbacks:              
 Front yard                                      30 feet
 Side yard                                       10 feet interior
                                                  30 feet abutting corner
 Rear yard                                       10 feet
Maximum building height                           35 feet
Maximum ground floor footprint                    30,000 square feet
Maximum lot coverage                              50 percent
Maximum impervious surface (other than Shore Land 88 percent
Overlay District)
Maximum impervious surface (Shore Land Overlay    25 percent
District)
 
(Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016)
   B.   Fence, Screen Required: Wherever a C1 District abuts or is across the
street from an R District, a fence or compact evergreen screen is required
pursuant to section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title. (Ord. 2013-20, 11-19-
2013)
ARTICLE G. C2 REGIONAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3G-1: Permitted Uses
10-3G-2: Accessory Uses
10-3G-3: Conditional Uses
10-3G-4: Interim Uses
10-3G-5: Lot Area, Height, Lot Width And Yard Requirements
10-3G-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following retail sales and service businesses supplying commodities or
performing a service primarily for residents of the surrounding trade area:
   Auto accessory retail (not including service).
   Bakeries; retail.
   Banks, savings and loans, credit unions and the like (without drive-
through).
   Barbershops, beauty shops; other personal service uses.
   Brewer and brewer taproom.
   Bus/transit stations or terminals without vehicle storage.
   Cannabis retailer, pursuant to the cannabis retail buffer and cannabis
retail limit, as allowed in this title.
   Cannabis delivery services.
   Civic buildings such as city halls, fire stations and the like (without
outside storage).
   Clinics including multispecialty outpatient clinic.
   Commercial recreation, indoor (e.g., bowling alleys, roller rinks and the
like).
   Convenience stores (without motor fuel stations).
   Copy/printing services (excludes printing presses and publishing
facilities).
   Department stores.
   Drugstores and pharmacies (without drive-through).
   Dry cleaning and laundry pick ups, self-service laundromats, incidental
pressing, tailoring, repair and the like (without dry cleaning processing).
   Essential services.
   Fitness centers and fitness related studios such as karate, yoga, dance and
the like.
   Florists, hobby, craft or variety stores and the like.
   Furniture and household appliance stores.
   Grocery stores.
   Hardware stores.
   Hotels and motels.
   Liquor; off-sale.
   Lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
   Medical cannabis combination business, not including cultivation or
manufacturing.
   Motor vehicle detailing shops.
   Offices; professional and medical.
   Plumbing, television, radio, electrical sales and related accessory repair.
   Public and private clubs and lodges.
   Reception halls/event centers/conference centers.
   Religious institutions (limited to worship and directly related social
events).
   Restaurant (without drive-through).
   Sporting goods and similar retail sales.
   Studios; art related.
   Tobacco specialty store.
   Retail goods and services of a similar nature, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator. (Ord. 2013-20, 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2016-017, 5-17-2016; Ord.
2023-009, 7-18-2023; Ord. 2023-012, 8-15-2023; Ord. 2024-018,12-3-2024)
10-3G-2: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory structures as regulated by section
10-5-9, "Accessory Structures", of this title.
Accessory uses incidental and customary to uses allowed in section
10-3G-1, "Permitted Uses", of this article shall not occupy more than thirty
percent (30%) of the gross floor area of the principal building.
Adult use, accessory pursuant to title 3, chapter 4 of this Code.
Off street parking, loading and service entrances as regulated in sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
Outdoor display and sales (permanent) of convenience items displayed by the
principal use that directly relate to the principal use. Items may include
windshield washer fluid, softener salt, fire wood, propane tanks for exchange,
or other similar convenience items. The display area for such items shall not
exceed ten percent (10%) of the principal structure footprint and must be
located on a surface that is allowable under this title.
Signs as regulated by section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use subject
to title 9, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 2018-11, 8-22-2018)
10-3G-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses, subject to the conditions outlined in
section
10-7-4 of this title and the specific standards and criteria that may be cited
for a specific use:
   Adult use, principal pursuant to title 3, chapter 4 of this Code.
   Car washes.
      A.   The site shall provide stacking space for the car wash. The amount
of stacking space shall take into account the type of car wash and the amount
of time it takes to wash a vehicle. Stacking spaces shall not interfere with
parking spaces or traffic circulation.
      B.   The exit from the car wash shall have a drainage system which is
subject to the approval of the City and gives special consideration to the
prevention of ice buildup during winter months.
      C.   Hours of operation shall be limited to between seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. daily.
      D.   A bypass lane shall be provided for each drive-through use, allowing
cars to leave the drive-through lane from the stacking area.
   Columbarium accessory to a religious institution pursuant to the following:
      A.   Columbaria shall be screened from adjoining residential properties.
      B.   All portions of the use shall meet the minimum district setback
requirements for principal structures.
      C.   All portions of the use shall be setback a minimum of ten (10) feet
from any wetland and shall be located outside of easements, except as approved
by the city.
   Convenience stores/meat markets (without motor fuel stations) with accessory
propane fill station provided:
      A.   One tank may be allowed not to exceed one thousand (1,000) pounds.
      B.   The tank and weighing station shall not exceed six feet (6') in
height and shall be set back ten feet (10') or more from property lines.
      C.   The tank and weighing station shall be fully screened from view to
public streets and adjacent properties with a solid fence or wall. The fence/
wall shall include an earth tone color and be consistent in appearance with the
principal structure.
      D.   Coniferous trees shall be planted on the outside of the fence/wall
to soften the appearance of the fence/wall from adjacent properties and rights-
of-way.
      E.   The propane tank shall be painted an earth tone color.
      F.   The weigh station building shall be painted an earth tone color or
stainless steel.
      G.   Exterior signage is not allowed at the fill station.
   Daycare facility provided:
      A.   Unless exempted by the Zoning Administrator, where an outdoor play
area of a daycare facility abuts any commercial or industrial use or zone, or
public right-of-way, the daycare facility shall provide screening along the
shared boundary of such uses, zones or public rights-of-way. All of the
required fencing and screening shall comply with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
      B.   There shall be adequate off street parking which shall be located
separately from any outdoor play area. Parking areas shall be screened from
view of surrounding and adjoining residential uses in compliance with section
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", of this title.
      C.   When a daycare facility is an accessory use within a structure
containing another principal use, parking for each use shall be calculated
separately for determining the total off street parking spaces required. An
exception to this requirement may be granted by the Zoning Administrator in
instances where no increase in off street parking demand will result.
      D.   Off street loading space in compliance with section
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
      E.   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
      F.   The structure and operation shall be in compliance with State of
Minnesota Department of Human Services regulations and shall be licensed
accordingly.
   Drive-through business subject to section
10-5-5, "Drive-Through Businesses", of this title provided:
      A.   Adequate stacking distance shall be provided, as determined by the
City Engineer, which does not interfere with other driving areas, parking
spaces, or sidewalks.
      B.   Electronic speaker devices, if used, shall not be audible beyond the
property being served and shall not be operated between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., unless extended by the City
Council as part of the conditional use permit.
      C.   Screening shall be provided of automobile headlights in the drive-
through lane to adjacent properties subject to section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title. Such screening shall be
at least three feet (3') in height and fully opaque, consisting of a wall,
fence, dense vegetation, berm, or grade change.
      D.   A bypass lane shall be provided for each drive-through use, allowing
cars to leave the drive-through lane from the stacking area.
   Entertainment, Live (Indoor/Outdoor) accessory to a restaurant or brewery,
provided:
      A.   The subject property shall comply with the parking requirements of
section Title 10, Chapter 5, 2. of tire City Code.
      B.   The facility shall comply with all applicable building and fire
codes for the indoor and outdoor uses.
      C.   Restroom facilities shall be served by city sanitary sewer and
water.
      D.   Noises emanating from the use shall be in compliance with Title 5,
Chapter 4, "Noise Control" of the City Code and the Minnesota pollution control
standards in Minnesota Rules chapter 7030 as may be amended.
      E.   The facility shall comply with the nonenclosed premises requirements
of section Title 3, Chapter 3, 2.c. of the City Code,
      F.   Hours of operation of theoutdoor live entertainment shall be limited
to ten o’clock (10:00) a.m. to ten o'clock (10:00) p.m.
   Equipment rental provided:
      A.   All servicing of vehicles and equipment shall occur entirely within
the principal structure.
      B.   Storage and use of all flammable materials, including liquid and
rags, shall conform with applicable provisions of the Minnesota Uniform Fire
Code.
      C.   Parking, driveway, and circulation standards and requirements shall
be subject to sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title and the review and approval of the City
and shall be based upon the specific needs of the operation and shall
accommodate large vehicle equipment and trailers.
      D.   The storage of damaged vehicles and vehicle parts and accessory
equipment must be completely inside a principal or accessory building or
removed from the site.
      E.   All applicable Federal, State and/or County permits are obtained.
      F.   To the extent required by State law and regulations, painting shall
be conducted in an approved paint booth, which thoroughly controls the emission
of fumes, dust, or other particulated matter.
      G.   Storage area is blacktop or concrete surfaced unless specifically
approved by the City Council.
      H.   The storage/display areas do not take up parking space or loading
space as required for conformity to this chapter.
      I.   A screening plan specific to the proposed use shall consider views
from public streets and surrounding properties.
      J.   The sale of vehicles and equipment other than those specifically
mentioned in this section shall be subject to a separate conditional use
permit.
   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
   Garden center provided:
      A.   When abutting a residential use or district, the property shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with this chapter. All structures shall
be set back at least one hundred feet (100') from any residential property
line.
      B.   On site storage and use of pesticides and fertilizers shall meet the
standards of the Minnesota Department of Agriculture.
      C.   Lighting shall comply with all ordinance requirements. If more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the greenhouse spaces are to be lit at night, they
shall be screened from residential properties by use of a retractable curtain,
landscaping, buildings or other methods to prevent light pollution, including
sky glow.
   Motor fuel stations in compliance with section
10-5-8, "Motor Fuel Stations", of this title and the following:
      A.   Application Requirements: That the area and location of space
devoted to nonautomotive merchandise sales shall be specified in the
application and in the conditional use permit. Exterior sales or storage shall
be only as allowed by the conditional use permit and shall be limited to ten
percent (10%) of the gross floor area of its associated principal use.
      B.   Separation Of Spaces: The off street loading space(s) and building
access for delivery of goods shall be separate from customer parking and
entrances and shall not cause conflicts with customer vehicles and pedestrian
movements.
      C.   Installations: Motor fuel facilities shall be installed in
accordance with State and City standards. Additionally, adequate space shall be
provided to access gas pumps and to allow maneuverability around the pumps.
      Underground fuel storage tanks are to be positioned to allow adequate
access by motor fuel transports and unloading operations which do not conflict
with circulation, access and other activities on the site. Fuel pumps shall be
installed on pump islands.
      D.   Compliance: All buildings, canopies, and pump islands shall be
located to comply with the minimum setback requirements of the C2 District.
      E.   Canopy Lighting: All canopy lighting for motor fuel station pump
islands shall be recessed or shielded to provide a ninety degree (90°) cutoff.
Illumination levels for pump islands shall not exceed thirty (30) foot-candles.
      F.   Litter Control: The operation shall be responsible for litter
control within three hundred feet (300') of the premises and litter control is
to occur on a daily basis. Trash receptacles must be provided at a convenient
location on site to facilitate litter control.
   Motor vehicle, boat or equipment repair.
      A.   All servicing of vehicles and equipment shall occur entirely within
the principal structure.
      B.   To the extent required by State law and regulations, painting shall
be conducted in an approved paint booth, which thoroughly controls the emission
of fumes, dust, or other particulated matter.
      C.   Storage and use of all flammable materials, including liquid and
rags, shall conform with applicable provisions of the Minnesota State Fire
Code.
      D.   Parking, driveway, and circulation standards and requirements shall
be subject to the review and approval of the City and shall be based upon the
specific needs of the operation and shall accommodate large vehicle equipment
and semitrailer/tractor trucks.
      E.   The storage of damaged vehicles and vehicle parts and accessory
equipment must be completely inside a principal or accessory building.
      F.   The sale of products other than those specifically mentioned in this
section shall be subject to a separate conditional use permit.
   Motor vehicle, boats and equipment sales, including manufactured housing and
recreational camping vehicles, pursuant to section
10-5-6 of this title.
      A.   All sales shall occur on one lot.
      B.   Parking areas for the outside storage and sale of vehicles, boats
and trailers, shall be on impervious surface, either bituminous, concrete, or
approved equivalent.
      C.   Interior concrete or asphalt curbs shall be constructed within the
property to separate driving and parking areas from landscaped areas.
      D.   All areas of the property not devoted to buildings or parking areas
shall be landscaped in accordance with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
      E.   Off street parking shall be provided for customers and employees in
accordance with section
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", of this title.
      F.   Parking for a motor vehicle, boat, or trailer sales shall not be
less than nine feet (9') wide by 18.5 feet in length.
   Multi-business signs, as regulated in section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
   School.
      A.   The use when conducted entirely within a building.
      B.   The site shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a
collector or arterial roadway.
      C.   A master plan shall be submitted that describes proposed physical
development for the next ten (10) years. Said plan shall include a description
of proposed development phases and plans, development priorities, the probable
sequence of proposed development, estimated dates of construction and the
anticipated interim use of property waiting to be developed.
      D.   A transportation management plan shall be submitted to address off
street parking, bus loading and unloading, traffic control, and the impact of
the facility on surrounding roadways.
   Veterinary and pet shop; related indoor kennels provided:
      A.   All pens or cages must be completely enclosed within a building with
the exception of incidental run areas that shall be limited to ten percent
(10%) of the gross floor area of its associated principal use, to a maximum of
five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      B.   All indoor activity shall include soundproofing and odor control.
      C.   When abutting a residential use or district, the property shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
   Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use
subject to title 9, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; amd. Ord.
2015-06, 3-17-2015; Ord. 2016-011, 4-19-2016; Ord. 2018-006, 4-17-2018; Ord.
2018-013, 8-22-2018; Ord. 2022-016, 11-15-2022; Ord. 2024-015, 10-15-2024)
10-3G-4: INTERIM USES:
The following are interim uses, subject to the conditions outlined in chapter 7
of this title, interim uses, and the specific standards and criteria that may
be cited for a specific use:
Buildings temporarily located for purposes of construction on the premises for
a period not to exceed time necessary to complete said construction.
   A.   All Building and Safety Codes are met.
Outdoor seasonal Christmas tree sales (and related items), provided:
   A.   No required parking shall be used for the sales area.
   B.   All sales shall occur on the same lot as the principal use/structure.
   C.   All signage shall comply with the requirements of section
10-5-1 of this title.
Outdoor seasonal fireworks sales provided:
   A.   When abutting a residential use or district, the property shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with this chapter. All structures shall
be set back at least one hundred feet (100') from any residential property
line.
   B.   Tents and stands may be used provided that they are located on the
subject property, that appropriate permits are applied for and approved and
provided, and provided that they are clearly identified on a plan to be
reviewed and approved by the City as part of the interim use permit. Structures
shall not impair the parking capacity, emergency access, or the safe and
efficient movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic on the site.
   C.   All refuse shall be disposed in approved containers and the site shall
be kept clean.
   D.   Lighting shall comply with all ordinance requirements. If more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the tent or stand area is to be lit at night, they
shall be screened from residential properties by use of a retractable curtain,
landscaping, buildings or other methods to prevent light pollution, including
sky glow.
   E.   A maximum of two (2) 32-square foot banners are allowed. The banners
shall be allowed only on the tent or stand. No additional temporary signage is
allowed.
   F.   The tent or stand shall be staffed twenty four (24) hours a day with at
least one person eighteen (18) years of age on the site at all times.
   G.   That adequate restroom facility is made available after business hours.
   H.   The net explosive weight of the product is provided to the City prior
to the tent sale and there is compliance with all Fire Codes. (Ord. 2018-016,
9-18-2018)
10-3G-5: LOT AREA, HEIGHT, LOT WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area Requirements: The following requirements shall be met in the C2
District. New development shall only be allowed when a full range of Municipal
services and facilities are available to serve the site. Properties may be
subject to special requirements as noted in article L, "SL Shore Land Overlay
District", of this chapter.
  With Public
  Sewer And Water
                                                  With Public
                                                  Sewer And Water
Minimum lot size                                  20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                                 100 feet interior
                                                  120 feet corner
Minimum principal structure setbacks:              
 Front yard                                      35 feet
 Side yard                                       10 feet interior
                                                  35 feet abutting corner
 Rear yard                                       30 feet
Minimum accessory structure setbacks:              
 Front yard                                      35 feet
 Side yard                                       10 feet interior
                                                  35 feet abutting corner
 Rear yard                                       10 feet
Maximum lot coverage                              50 percent
Maximum building height                           45 feet
Maximum impervious surface (other than Shore Land 88 percent
Overlay District)
Maximum impervious surface (Shore Land Overlay    25 percent
District)
 
(Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016)
   B.   Fence, Screen Required: Wherever a C2 District abuts or is across the
street from an R District, a fence or compact evergreen screen is required
pursuant to section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title. (Ord. 2013-20, 11-19-
2013)
ARTICLE H. OS OFFICE SERVICE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3H-1: Permitted Uses
10-3H-2: Accessory Uses
10-3H-3: Conditional Uses
10-3H-4: Interim Uses
10-3H-5: Lot Area, Height, Lot Width And Yard Requirements
10-3H-1: PERMITTED USES:
Offices and complementary service uses of a general nature conducted in a
building no greater than one hundred twenty five thousand (125,000) gross
square feet, except as may be approved by the city council by conditional use
permit:
   Banks, savings and loans, credit unions and the like (without drive-
through).
   Barbershops, beauty shops; other personal service uses.
   Bus/transit stations or terminals without vehicle storage.
   Civic buildings such as city halls, fire stations and the like (without
outside storage).
   Clinics including multispecialty outpatient clinic.
   Commercial recreation, indoor (e.g., bowling alleys, roller rinks and the
like).
   Community behavioral health hospital and similar facilities (excludes
hospitals or similar institutions) existing prior to September 19, 2023.
   Convenience stores (without motor fuel stations).
   Essential services.
   Laboratories and research facilities.
   Offices, professional and medical.
   Public and private clubs and lodges.
   Radio and television stations or studios.
   Religious institutions (limited to worship and directly related social
events).
   Studios; art related. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-013, 9-19-
2023)
10-3H-2: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses incidental and customary to uses allowed in section
10-3H-1 of this article, including retail, shall not occupy more than thirty
percent (30%) of the gross floor area of the principal building.
Accessory structures as regulated by section
10-5-9, "Accessory Structures", of this title.
Off street parking, loading and service entrances as regulated in sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
Signs as regulated by section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
Warehousing as accessory to the permitted principal use.
Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use subject
to title 9, chapter 4 and section
9-4-3 of this code. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
10-3H-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses, subject to the conditions outlined in
section
10-7-4 of this title and the specific standards and criteria that may be cited
for a specific use:
   Columbarium accessory to a religious institution pursuant to the following:
      A.   Columbaria shall be screened from adjoining residential properties.
      B.   All portions of the use shall meet the minimum district setback
requirements for principal structures.
      C.   All portions of the use shall be setback a minimum of ten (10) feet
from any wetland and shall be located outside of easements, except as approved
by the city.
   Daycare facility provided:
      A.   Unless exempted by the zoning administrator, where an outdoor play
area of a daycare facility abuts any commercial or industrial use or zone, or
public right of way, the daycare facility shall provide screening along the
shared boundary of such uses, zones or public rights of way. All of the
required fencing and screening shall comply with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
      B.   There shall be adequate off street parking which shall be located
separately from any outdoor play area. Parking areas shall be screened from
view of surrounding and adjoining residential uses in compliance with section
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", of this title.
      C.   When a daycare facility is an accessory use within a structure
containing another principal use, parking for each use shall be calculated
separately for determining the total off street parking spaces required. An
exception to this requirement may be granted by the zoning administrator in
instances where no increase in off street parking demand will result.
      D.   Off street loading space in compliance with section
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
      E.   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
      F.   The structure and operation shall be in compliance with state of
Minnesota department of human services regulations and shall be licensed
accordingly.
   Drive-through business subject to section
10-5-5, "Drive-Through Businesses", of this title provided:
      A.   Adequate stacking distance shall be provided, as determined by the
city engineer, which does not interfere with other driving areas, parking
spaces, or sidewalks.
      B.   Electronic speaker devices, if used, shall not be audible beyond the
property being served and shall not be operated between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., unless extended by the city
council as part of the conditional use permit.
      C.   Screening shall be provided of automobile headlights in the drive-
through lane to adjacent properties subject to section 10-4-8, "Screening/
Landscaping/Fencing", of this title. Such screening shall be at least three
feet (3') in height and fully opaque, consisting of a wall, fence, dense
vegetation, berm, or grade change.
      D.   A bypass lane shall be provided for each drive-through use, allowing
cars to leave the drive-through lane from the stacking area.
   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
   Hospitals, provided that:
      A.   The site and related parking and service entrances are served by an
arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic
which will be generated.
      B.   An off street rider drop off and pick up drive and entrance is
provided.
      C.   Adequate off street parking is provided in compliance with section
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", of this title to include additional spots
calculated for outpatient services.
      D.   Adequate off street loading is provided in compliance with section
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
      E.   Vehicular entrances to parking or service areas shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movement.
      F.   When abutting an R-1 or R-2 district, a buffer area with screening
and landscaping in compliance with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title shall be provided.
      G.   When abutting an R-1 or R-2 district, side yards are double the
minimum requirement established for this district and are screened in
compliance with section 10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", of this title.
      H.   If across the street from an R-1 or R-2 District, the front yard
setback depth shall be a minimum of forty five feet (45').
      I.   All signing and information or visual communication devices shall be
in compliance with section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title and shall not impact surrounding or abutting
residential uses.
   Multi-business signs, as regulated in section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
   School.
      A.   The use when conducted entirely within a building.
      B.   The site shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a
collector or arterial roadway.
      C.   A master plan shall be submitted that describes proposed physical
development for the next ten (10) years. Said plan shall include a description
of proposed development phases and plans, development priorities, the probable
sequence of proposed development, estimated dates of construction and the
anticipated interim use of property waiting to be developed.
      D.   A transportation management plan shall be submitted to address off
street parking, bus loading and unloading, traffic control, and the impact of
the facility on surrounding roadways.
   Veterinary; related indoor kennels provided:
      A.   All pens or cages must be completely enclosed within a building with
the exception of incidental run areas that shall be limited to ten percent
(10%) of the gross floor area of its associated principal use, to a maximum of
five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      B.   All indoor activity shall include soundproofing and odor control.
      C.   When abutting a residential use or district, the property shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
   Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use
subject to title 9, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; amd. Ord.
2015-06, 3-17-2015; Ord. 2018-006, 4-17-2018; Ord. 2024-015, 10-15-2024)
10-3H-4: INTERIM USES:
The following are interim uses, subject to the conditions outlined in chapter 7
of this title, interim uses, and the specific standards and criteria that may
be cited for a specific use:
Buildings temporarily located for purposes of construction on the premises for
a period not to exceed time necessary to complete said construction.
   A.   All Building and Safety Codes are met. (Ord. 2013-20, 11-19-2013)
10-3H-5: LOT AREA, HEIGHT, LOT WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area Requirements: The following requirements shall be met in the OS
District. New development shall only be allowed when a full range of Municipal
services and facilities are available to serve the site. Properties may be
subject to special requirements as noted in article L, "SL Shore Land Overlay
District", of this chapter.
  With Public
  Sewer And Water
                                                  With Public
                                                  Sewer And Water
Minimum lot size                                  20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                                 100 feet interior
                                                  120 feet corner
Minimum principal structure setbacks:              
 Front yard                                      35 feet
 Side yard                                       10 feet interior
                                                  35 feet abutting corner
 Rear yard                                       30 feet
Minimum accessory structure setbacks:              
 Front yard                                      35 feet
 Side yard                                       10 feet interior
                                                  35 feet abutting corner
 Rear yard                                       10 feet
Maximum lot coverage                              50 percent
Maximum building height                           45 feet
Maximum impervious surface (other than Shore Land 88 percent
Overlay District)
Maximum impervious surface (Shore Land Overlay    25 percent
District)
 
(Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016)
   B.   Fence, Screen Required: Wherever a Business District abuts or is across
the street from an R District, a fence or compact evergreen screen is required
pursuant to section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title. (Ord. 2013-20, 11-19-
2013)
ARTICLE I. I INDUSTRY OFFICE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3I-1: Permitted Uses
10-3I-2: Accessory Uses
10-3I-3: Conditional Uses
10-3I-4: Interim Uses
10-3I-5: Lot Area, Height, Lot Width, And Yard Requirements
10-3I-1: PERMITTED USES:
Brewery.
Bus/transit stations or terminals and maintenance garage.
Civic buildings, city halls, fire stations, public works and the like.
Commercial recreation, indoor (e.g., bowling alleys, roller rinks and the
like).
Contractor operations, lumberyard/building material sales and the like.
Distribution centers.
Essential services and structures.
Food processing or ice, cold storage plants, bottling works and the like.
Laboratories and research facilities.
Laundry, dry cleaning and dyeing plants.
Manufacturing or assembly of products that produces no exterior noise, glare,
fumes, byproducts or wastes or creates other objectionable impact on the
environment.
Motor vehicle detailing shops.
Offices, professional and medical.
Radio and television stations or studios.
Showrooms.
Studios; art.
Warehousing, wholesale offices and showrooms, excluding explosives and
hazardous waste.
Wireless communications towers subject to title 9, chapter 4 of this Code.
(Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-013, 9-19-2023)
10-3I-2: ACCESSORY USES:
No accessory structure or use of land shall be permitted except for one or more
of the following uses:
Accessory structures as regulated by section
10-5-9, "Accessory Structures", of this title.
Accessory uses incidental and customary to uses allowed in section
10-3I-1 of this article in the I District, including retail, shall not occupy
more than thirty percent (30%) of the gross floor area of the principal use.
Adult use, accessory pursuant to title 3, chapter 4 of this Code.
Licensed brewer taproom as an accessory to a brewery with limited accessory
retail space provided:
   A.   The seating for the retail space is limited to no more than twelve (12)
seats.
   B.   The retail space is limited to four hundred (400) square feet.
   C.   The on-sale of any liquor is limited to beer brewed on site as allowed
by a valid liquor license(s).
   D.   The off-sale of any liquor is limited to beer brewed on site as allowed
by a valid liquor license(s).
   E.   The hours of both on-sale and off-sale liquor are limited to the legal
hours of off-sale liquor. Off-sale liquor must be removed from the premises
before the applicable off-sale closing time.
   F.   There must be adequate street capacity as determined by the City (for
the purposes of determining adequate street capacity, the property must be
served by an urban collector street or greater capacity road).
   G.   Any required State, or City licenses are obtained and remain valid for
the respective use.
   H.   That there is not another brewer taproom within one thousand three
hundred twenty feet (1,320') (1/4 mile) as measured between the main front
entrances following the route of ordinary pedestrian travel.
   I.   There is adequate screening in compliance with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
Off street parking, loading and service entrances as regulated in sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
Signs as regulated by section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title. (Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019)
10-3I-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses, subject to the conditions outlined in
section
10-7-4 of this title and the specific standards and criteria that may be cited
for a specific use:
   Adult use, principal pursuant to title 3, chapter 4 of this Code.
   Cannabis microbusinesses not including retail, cannabis mezzobusinesses not
including retail, cannabis cultivators, cannabis manufacturers, cannabis
wholesalers, cannabis transporters, cannabis testing facilities, cannabis
delivery services, lower-potency hemp edible manufacturers, medical cannabis
combination businesses not including retail, subject to Minnesota Statue.
   Columbarium accessory to a religious institution pursuant to the following:
      A.   Columbaria shall be screened from adjoining residential properties.
      B.   All portions of the use shall meet the minimum district setback
requirements for principal structures.
      C.   All portions of the use shall be setback a minimum of ten (10) feet
from any wetland and shall be located outside of easements, except as approved
by the city.
   Data Centers:
      A.   The use shall not be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of any
property that is used, zoned, or guided in the comprehensive plan for
residential use.
      B.   Mechanical equipment shall be screened from public view pursuant to
the screening standards of this title.
      C.   The use shall not make, or cause to be made, any distinctly and
loudly audible noise that reasonably annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers
the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of any person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s value. Noises
emanating from any use shall comply with the Minnesota pollution control
standards in Minnesota Rules chapter 7030 as may be amended.
      D.   Power/electricity usage shall not, in the city’s sole discretion, be
detrimental to the city’s power supply to the point that it could reasonably
limit additional growth in the city.
   Homeless and Recovery Resource Centers, provided:
      A.   The facility shall comply with all applicable state building, fire,
plumbing, mechanical and electrical codes.
      B.   Professional staff shall be present in the facility at all times
during open hours.
      C.   Professional staff shall be present in numbers reflective of the
number of people using the center.
      D.   The facility shall provide or have access to appropriate support
services for the employees and clients using the center.
      E.   Hours of operation shall not be later than eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
and shall not be earlier than seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
      F.   No overnight occupancy is permitted.
      G.   No loitering shall be allowed outside the facility or in any nearby
areas.
      H.   The facility shall not be used as a detox facility.
      I.   If the site becomes a location having an inordinate number of police
response calls that are criminal in nature, the city may revoke the conditional
use permit.
      J.   There shall not be off-site parking or trespassing associated with
the use.
      K.   Transportation shall be supervised and managed with the use.
      L.   Violations of the above conditions shall be grounds for revocation
of the conditional use permit.
   Ministorage/self-storage facilities:
      A.   Units are to be used for dead storage only. Units are not to be used
for retailing, auto repair, human habitation, or any commercial activity,
except as allowed by this section.
      B.   Combining office and/or retail space with a self-service storage
facility may be allowed by conditional use permit.
      C.   Storage of hazardous or flammable materials is prohibited.
      D.   No exterior storage is allowed.
      E.   The facility shall be secured by either the walls of the structure
and/or fencing. All doors on the units shall face inward and away from the
street and property lines.
      F.   An on site manager is allowed only where adequate sanitary
facilities are provided, either through use of a septic system or through
connection to the public sanitary sewer system.
   Motor vehicle, boat or equipment repair.
      A.   All servicing of vehicles and equipment shall occur entirely within
the principal structure.
      B.   To the extent required by State law and regulations, painting shall
be conducted in an approved paint booth, which thoroughly controls the emission
of fumes, dust, or other particulated matter.
      C.   Storage and use of all flammable materials, including liquid and
rags, shall conform with applicable provisions of the Minnesota Uniform Fire
Code.
      D.   Parking, driveway, and circulation standards and requirements shall
be subject to sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title and the review and approval of the City
and shall be based upon the specific needs of the operation and shall
accommodate large vehicle equipment and semitrailer/tractor trucks.
      E.   The storage of damaged vehicles and vehicle parts and accessory
equipment must be completely inside a principal or accessory building.
      F.   The sale of products other than those specifically mentioned in this
section shall be subject to a separate conditional use permit.
   Multi-business signs, as regulated in section 10-5-1, "Signs", of this
title.
   Open storage, accessory to a principal use.
      A.   All applicable Federal, State and/or County permits are obtained.
      B.   Storage area is blacktop or concrete surfaced unless specifically
approved by the City Council.
      C.   The storage area does not take up parking space or loading space as
required for conformity to this chapter.
      D.   The storage area is screened from public streets and surrounding
properties.
   Pet daycare and overnight boarding (cats and dogs), provided:
      A.   The daycare/overnight boarding facility, including any outdoor play
area, is located at least three hundred feet (300') from any property zoned as
residential in the City's Zoning Map or guided as residential in the City's
Future Land Use Map.
      B.   An eight foot (8') solid fence is constructed to fully enclose any
outdoor play and potty areas.
      C.   All pets are kept indoors for overnight boarding.
      D.   The daycare/boarding facility shall be in compliance with section
10-5-10 of this title.
      E.   The daycare/overnight boarding facility shall manage odors from
animal waste to ensure that there is no negative impact to neighboring
properties. The facility shall be cleaned regularly, and waste shall be
disposed of in sealed containers to trap odors.
   Ready-Mix Facility, located at least nine hundred (900) feet from a State
Highway.
   Religious institutions.
      A.   No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot
line. (Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-018, 11-15-2022; Ord. 2023-017,
10-17-2023; Ord. 2024-015, 10-15-2024; Ord. 2024-018, 12-3-2024; Ord. 2025-004,
2-18-2025)
10-3I-4: INTERIM USES:
The following are interim uses, subject to the conditions outlined in chapter 7
of this title, interim uses, and the specific standards and criteria that may
be cited for a specific use:
Buildings temporarily located for purposes of construction on the premises for
a period not to exceed time necessary to complete said construction.
   A.   All Building and Safety Codes are met. (Ord. 2013-20, 11-19-2013)
10-3I-5: LOT AREA, HEIGHT, LOT WIDTH, AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Area Requirements: The following requirements shall be required
in the I District. New development shall only be allowed when a full range of
Municipal services and facilities are available to serve the site. Properties
may be subject to special requirements as noted in article L, "SL Shore Land
Overlay District", of this chapter.
 With Public Sewer And Water
                                                  With Public Sewer And Water
Minimum lot size                                  20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                                 100 feet interior
                                                  120 feet corner
Minimum principal structure setbacks:              
Front yard                                        35 feet
Side yard                                         10 feet interior
                                                  35 feet abutting corner
Rear yard                                         30 feet
Minimum accessory structure setbacks:              
Front yard                                        35 feet
Side yard                                         10 feet interior
                                                  35 feet abutting corner
Rear yard                                         10 feet
Maximum lot coverage                              50 percent
Maximum building height                           45 feet
Maximum impervious surface (other than Shore Land 88 percent
Overlay District)
Maximum impervious surface (Shore Land Overlay    25 percent
District)
 
   B.   Fence, Screen Required: Whenever an I District abuts an R District, a
fence or compact evergreen screen is required pursuant to section 10-4-8,
"Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; amd.
Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016; Ord. 2020-006, 7-21-2020)
ARTICLE J. CI ANNEXED COMMERCIAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3J-1: Permitted Uses
10-3J-2: Accessory Uses
10-3J-3: Conditional Uses
10-3J-4: Interim Uses
10-3J-5: Lot Area, Height, Lot Width, And Yard Requirements
10-3J-1: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   The following uses have no square footage requirements:
Civic buildings, city halls, fire stations, public works and the like.
Commercial recreation, indoor (e.g., bowling alleys, roller rinks and the
like).
Contractor operations, lumberyard/building material sales and the like.
Essential services and structures.
Food processing or ice, cold storage plants, bottling works and the like.
Laboratories and research facilities.
Laundry, dry cleaning and dyeing plants.
Manufacturing or assembly of products that produces no exterior noise, glare,
fumes, byproducts or wastes or creates other objectionable impact on the
environment.
Motor vehicle detailing shops.
Offices, professional and medical.
Radio and television stations or studios.
Studios; art.
Warehousing, wholesale offices and showrooms, excluding explosives and
hazardous waste.
   B.   The following uses with a ground floor footprint of thirty thousand
(30,000) square feet or less:
Bakeries; retail.
Banks, savings and loans, credit unions and the like (without drive-through).
Barbershops, beauty shops; other personal service uses.
Civic buildings such as city halls, fire stations and the like (without outside
storage).
Clinics including multispecialty outpatient clinic.
Convenience stores (without motor fuel stations).
Copy/printing services (excluding printing presses and publishing facilities).
Drugstores and pharmacies (without drive-through).
Dry cleaning and laundry pick ups, self-service laundromats, incidental
pressing, tailoring, repair and the like (without dry cleaning processing).
Essential services.
Fitness centers and fitness related studios such as karate, yoga, dance and the
like (less than 5,000 square feet in size).
Florists, hobby, craft or variety stores and the like.
Hardware stores.
Restaurants (without drive-through).
Studios; art related.
Retail goods and services of a similar nature, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator. (Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019)
10-3J-2: ACCESSORY USES:
No accessory structure or use of land shall be permitted except for one or more
of the following uses:
Accessory structures as regulated by section
10-5-9, "Accessory Structures", of this title.
Accessory uses incidental and customary to uses allowed in section
10-3J-1 of this article in the CI District, including retail, shall not occupy
more than thirty percent (30%) of the gross floor area of the principal use.
Adult use, accessory pursuant to title 3, chapter 4 of this Code.
Off street parking, loading and service entrances as regulated in sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
Signs as regulated by section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use subject
to title 9, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2016-035, 6-21-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-
001, 3-19-2019)
10-3J-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses, subject to the conditions outlined in
section
10-7-4 of this title and the specific standards and criteria that may be cited
for a specific use:
   Adult use, principal pursuant to title 3, chapter 4 of this Code.
   Car washes.
      A. The site shall provide stacking space for the car wash. The amount of
stacking space shall take into account the type of car wash and the amount of
time it takes to wash a vehicle. Stacking spaces shall not interfere with
parking spaces or traffic circulation.
      B. The exit from the car wash shall have a drainage system which is
subject to the approval of the City and gives special consideration to the
prevention of ice buildup during winter months.
      C. Hours of operation shall be limited to between seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. daily.
      D. A bypass lane shall be provided for each drive-through use, allowing
cars to leave the drive-through lane from the stacking area.
   Columbarium accessory to a religious institution pursuant to the following:
      A.   Columbaria shall be screened from adjoining residential properties.
      B.   All portions of the use shall meet the minimum district setback
requirements for principal structures.
      C.   All portions of the use shall be setback a minimum of ten (10) feet
from any wetland and shall be located outside of easements, except as approved
by the city.
   Daycare facility provided:
      A. Unless exempted by the Zoning Administrator, where an outdoor play
area of a daycare facility abuts any commercial or industrial use or zone, or
public right-of-way, the daycare facility shall provide screening along the
shared boundary of such uses, zones or public rights-of-way. All of the
required fencing and screening shall comply with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
      B. There shall be adequate off street parking which shall be located
separately from any outdoor play area. Parking areas shall be screened from
view of surrounding and adjoining residential uses in compliance with section
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", of this title.
      C. When a daycare facility is an accessory use within a structure
containing another principal use, parking for each use shall be calculated
separately for determining the total off street parking spaces required. An
exception to this requirement may be granted by the Zoning Administrator in
instances where no increase in off street parking demand will result.
      D. Off street loading space in compliance with section
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
      E. All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall be
in compliance with section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
      F. The structure and operation shall be in compliance with state of
Minnesota Department of Human Services regulations and shall be licensed
accordingly.
   Ministorage/self-storage facilities.
      A. Units are to be used for dead storage only. Units are not to be used
for retailing, auto repair, human habitation, or any commercial activity,
except as allowed by this section.
      B. Combining office and/or retail space with a self-service storage
facility may be allowed by conditional use permit.
      C. Storage of hazardous or flammable materials is prohibited.
      D. No exterior storage is allowed.
      E. The facility shall be secured by either the walls of the structure
and/or fencing. All doors on the units shall face inward and away from the
street and property lines.
      F. An on site manager is allowed only where adequate sanitary facilities
are provided, either through use of a septic system or through connection to
the public sanitary sewer system.
   Motor fuel stations in compliance with section
10-5-8, "Motor Fuel Stations", of this title and the following:
      A. Application Requirements: That the area and location of space devoted
to nonautomotive merchandise sales shall be specified in the application and in
the conditional use permit. Exterior sales or storage shall be only as allowed
by the conditional use permit and shall be limited to ten percent (10%) of the
gross floor area of its associated principal use.
      B. Separation Of Spaces: The off street loading space(s) and building
access for delivery of goods shall be separate from customer parking and
entrances and shall not cause conflicts with customer vehicles and pedestrian
movements.
      C. Installations: Motor fuel facilities shall be installed in accordance
with State and City standards. Additionally, adequate space shall be provided
to access gas pumps and to allow maneuverability around the pumps. Underground
fuel storage tanks are to be positioned to allow adequate access by motor fuel
transports and unloading operations which do not conflict with circulation,
access and other activities on the site. Fuel pumps shall be installed on pump
islands.
      D. Compliance: All buildings, canopies, and pump islands shall be located
to comply with the minimum setback requirements of the CI District.
      E. Canopy Lighting: All canopy lighting for motor fuel station pump
islands shall be recessed or shielded to provide a ninety degree (90°) cutoff.
Illumination levels for pump islands shall not exceed thirty (30) foot-candles.
      F. Litter Control: The operation shall be responsible for litter control
within three hundred feet (300') of the premises and litter control is to occur
on a daily basis. Trash receptacles must be provided at a convenient location
on site to facilitate litter control.
   Motor vehicle, boat or equipment repair.
      A. All servicing of vehicles and equipment shall occur entirely within
the principal structure.
      B. To the extent required by State law and regulations, painting shall be
conducted in an approved paint booth, which thoroughly controls the emission of
fumes, dust, or other particulated matter.
      C. Storage and use of all flammable materials, including liquid and rags,
shall conform with applicable provisions of the Minnesota State Fire Code.
      D. Parking, driveway, and circulation standards and requirements shall be
subject to sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title and the review and approval of the City
and shall be based upon the specific needs of the operation and shall
accommodate large vehicle equipment and semitrailer/tractor trucks.
      E. The storage of damaged vehicles and vehicle parts and accessory
equipment must be completely inside a principal or accessory building.
      F. The sale of products other than those specifically mentioned in this
section shall be subject to a separate conditional use permit.
   Open storage in a side or rear yard, accessory to a principal use.
      A. All applicable Federal, State and/or County permits are obtained.
      B. Storage area is blacktop or concrete surfaced unless specifically
approved by the City Council.
      C. The storage area does not take up parking space or loading space as
required for conformity to this chapter.
      D. The storage area is screened from public streets and surrounding
properties.
   Religious institutions.
      A. No building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line.
   Veterinary; related indoor kennels provided:
      A. All pens or cages must be completely enclosed within a building with
the exception of incidental run areas that shall be limited to ten percent
(10%) of the gross floor area of its associated principal use, to a maximum of
five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      B. All indoor activities shall include soundproofing and odor control.
      C. When abutting a residential use or district, the property shall be
screened and landscaped in accordance with section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title.
   Wireless communication towers as accessory to a permitted principal use
subject to title 9, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2016-035, 6-21-2016; amd.
Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019; Ord. 2024-015, 10-15-2024)
10-3J-4: INTERIM USES:
The following are interim uses, subject to the conditions outlined in chapter 7
of this title, interim uses, and the specific standards and criteria that may
be cited for a specific use:
Buildings temporarily located for purposes of construction on the premises for
a period not to exceed time necessary to complete said construction.
   A.   All Building and Safety Codes are met. (Ord. 2016-035, 6-21-2016)
10-3J-5: LOT AREA, HEIGHT, LOT WIDTH, AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Area Requirements: The following requirements shall be required
in the CI District. New development shall only be allowed when a full range of
Municipal services and facilities are available to serve the site. Properties
may be subject to special requirements as noted in article L, "SL Shore Land
Overlay District", of this chapter. Existing buildings on private well and
septic systems may be allowed to expand up to twenty percent (20%) of the total
ground floor area that existed on the property, as of the date of this chapter,
provided that all other requirements of this Code are met with the expansion.
  With Public
  Sewer And Water
                                                  With Public
                                                  Sewer And Water
Minimum lot size                                  20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                                 100 feet interior
                                                  120 feet corner
Minimum principal structure setbacks:              
 Front yard                                      35 feet
 Side yard                                       10 feet interior
                                                  35 feet abutting corner
 Rear yard                                       30 feet
Minimum accessory structure setbacks              10 feet
Maximum lot coverage                              50 percent
Maximum building height                           45 feet
Maximum impervious surface (other than Shore Land 88 percent
Overlay District)
Maximum impervious surface (Shore Land Overlay    25 percent
District)
 
   B.   Fence, Screen Required: Whenever a CI District abuts an R District, a
fence or compact evergreen screen is required pursuant to section
10-4-8, "Screening/Landscaping/Fencing", of this title. (Ord. 2016-035, 6-21-
2016)
ARTICLE K. PB PUBLIC BENEFIT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3K-1: Permitted Uses
10-3K-2: Accessory Uses
10-3K-3: Conditional Uses
10-3K-4: Interim Uses
10-3K-5: Lot Area, Height, Lot Width And Yard Requirements
10-3K-1: PERMITTED USES:
Cemeteries.
Civic buildings, city halls, fire stations, public works and the like.
Essential services and structures.
Public, private parks and similar uses, including arboretum.
Reception halls/event centers/conference centers.
Wireless communications towers subject to title 9, chapter 4 of this Code.
(Ord. 2013-20, 11-19-2013)
10-3K-2: ACCESSORY USES:
No accessory structure or use of land shall be permitted except for one or more
of the following uses:
Accessory structures as regulated by section
10-5-9, "Accessory Structures", of this title.
Accessory uses incidental and customary to uses allowed in section
10-3K-1 of this article in the PB District, including retail, shall not occupy
more than thirty percent (30%) of the gross floor area of the principal
building.
Off street parking, loading and service entrances as regulated in sections
10-5-2, "Off Street Parking", and
10-5-3, "Loading Spaces", of this title.
Signs as regulated by section
10-5-1, "Signs", of this title.
Urban agriculture. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
10-3K-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses, subject to the conditions outlined in
section
10-7-4 of this title and the specific standards and criteria that may be cited
for a specific use:
Ground Solar Array.
   A.   Power And Communication Lines: Power and communication lines running
between banks of solar panels and to electric substations or interconnections
with buildings shall be buried underground. Exemptions or variances may be
granted in instances where shallow bedrock, watercourses, or other elements of
natural landscape interfere with the ability to bury lines.
   B.   Height: Systems, equipment, and ground or pole-mounted solar energy
systems shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height, when oriented at maximum
tilt.
   C.   Lighting: Lighting shall be installed for security and safety purposes
only. All lighting shall be shielded so that no glare extends substantially
beyond the boundaries of the property upon which the solar farm is located and
comply with
10-5-4, Lighting Standards of this Title.
   D.   Setbacks: Solar Arrays and their enclosures shall be set back at least
one hundred feet (100') from public streets, private roads, and driveways.
Solar Arrays and their enclosures shall also be set back two hundred feet
(200') from all neighboring principal structures or one hundred fifty feet
(150') from property lines, whichever is the lesser requirement.
   E.   Screening: A year-round screening of ninety percent (90%) opacity as
approved by the Zoning Administrator is required adjacent to residential
properties, public streets, and other views from adjacent property. Required
screening can be achieved through a landscape plan depicting tree location,
species, and size, a forest management plan, screen fencing, berms, combination
thereof, or an alternative option approved by City Council.
   F.   Signage: An appropriate warning signage shall be provided at the
entrance of the facility and along the perimeter to the solar farm project.
   G.   Fencing: Security fencing shall be allowed pursuant to the fence
requirements of the
10-4-8 of this Title.
   H.   Reflectivity: All components associated with the solar array shall be
comprised on non-reflective material approved by the City.
Open storage, accessory to a principal use.
   A.   All applicable Federal, State and/or County permits are obtained.
   B.   Storage area is blacktop or concrete surfaced unless specifically
approved by the City Council.
   C.   The storage area does not take up parking space or loading space as
required for conformity to this chapter.
   D.   The storage area is screened from public streets and surrounding
properties.
School.
   A.   The use when conducted entirely within a building.
   B.   The site shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a
collector or arterial roadway.
   C.   A master plan shall be submitted that describes proposed physical
development for the next ten (10) years. Said plan shall include a description
of proposed development phases and plans, development priorities, the probable
sequence of proposed development, estimated dates of construction and the
anticipated interim use of property waiting to be developed.
   D.   A transportation management plan shall be submitted to address off
street parking, bus loading and unloading, traffic control, and the impact of
the facility on surrounding roadways. (Ord. 2013-20, 11-19-2013; amd. Ord.
2018-006, 4-17-2018; Ord. 2023-002, 1-17-2023)
10-3K-4: INTERIM USES:
The following are interim uses, subject to the conditions outlined in chapter 7
interim uses and the specific standards and criteria that may be cited for a
specific use:
Buildings temporarily located for purposes of construction on the premises for
a period not to exceed time necessary to complete said construction.
   A.   All Building and Safety Codes are met.
Child care without urban utilities. (Ord. 2013-20, 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2021-
014, 8-17-2021)
10-3K-5: LOT AREA, HEIGHT, LOT WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Area Requirements: The following requirements shall be required
in the PB District. New development shall only be allowed when a full range of
Municipal services and facilities are available to serve the site. Properties
may be subject to special requirements as noted in article L, "SL Shore Land
Overlay District", of this chapter.
  With Public
  Sewer And Water
                                      With Public
                                      Sewer And Water
Minimum lot size                      20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                     100 feet interior
                                      120 feet corner
Minimum principal structure setbacks:  
 Front yard                          40 feet
 Side yard                           10 feet interior
                                      40 feet abutting corner
 Rear yard                           30 feet
Maximum lot coverage                  50 percent
Maximum building height               45 feet
 
(Ord. 2013-20, 11-19-2013)
ARTICLE L. SL SHORE LAND OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3L-1: Statutory Authorization
10-3L-2: Policy
10-3L-3: Public Waters Classifications
10-3L-4: Permitted Uses
10-3L-5: Conditional Uses
10-3L-5-1: Interim Uses
10-3L-6: Accessory Uses
10-3L-7: Dimensional Requirements
10-3L-8: General Provisions
10-3L-9: Shore Land Alterations
10-3L-10: Exceptions
10-3L-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The shore lands of the city are hereby designated as a shore land overlay
district pursuant to the authorization contained in the Minnesota statutes
chapter 103F; Minnesota regulations parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900; and the
planning and zoning enabling legislation in Minnesota statutes chapter 462.
(Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
10-3L-2: POLICY:
The uncontrolled use of the shore lands of the city affects the public health,
safety and general welfare not only by contributing to pollution of public
waters, but also by impairing the local tax base. Therefore, it is in the best
interests of the public health, safety and welfare to provide for the wise
subdivision, use and development of shore lands of public waters. The
legislature of Minnesota has delegated responsibility to local governments of
the state to regulate the subdivision, use and development of shore lands of
public waters and thus preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters,
conserve the economic and natural environmental values of shore lands, and
provide for the wise use of waters and related land resources. This
responsibility is hereby recognized by the city. To implement this policy all
state mandated rules and regulations have been met or exceeded by the city.
(Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
10-3L-3: PUBLIC WATERS CLASSIFICATIONS:
The public waters of the state located within the city have been classified and
numbered by the Minnesota commissioner of natural resources as follows:
   A.   Lakes:
      1.   Natural environmental lakes:
Island Lake (18-383). OHW = 1,175.9
Mile Lake (11-207). OHW = 1,187.3
Rush Lake (18-381). OHW = 1,190.7
Unnamed, southwest of Bass Lake (18-385). OHW = 1,168.1
Unnamed, southwest of Rush Lake and north of Island Lake (18-382). OHW =
1,179.60
      2.   Recreational development lakes:
Bass Lake (18-384). OHW = 1,168.1
Hardy Lake (11-209). OHW = 1,166.1
Perch Lake (18-371). OHW = 1,190.40
Red Sand Lake (18-386). OHW = 1,199.9
Whipple Lake, includes Moburg/Upper Whipple (18-387). OHW = 1,194.9
      3.   General development lakes and streams:
Baxter Lake (18-380). OHW = 1,191.3
White Sand Lake (18-379). OHW = 1,198.40
   B.   Rivers And Streams:
      1.   Urban Rivers: Mississippi River (from the east line of the city to a
point 500 feet west of the west line of section 19).
      2.   Forested Rivers: Mississippi River (from a point 500 feet west of
the west line of section 19 to the west line of the city).
      3.   Mississippi River: On the Mississippi, the base floodwater surface
elevation ranges from 1,157.7 to 1,164.1 depending upon the location. The cross
section map showing these elevations is as depicted in the flood insurance
study for the city of Baxter and corresponding flood insurance rate map, both
prepared by the federal emergency management agency, copies of which are
available at city hall.
All protected watercourses in the city shown on the protected waters inventory
map for Crow Wing County, a copy of which is hereby adopted by reference, not
given a classification in urban or forested rivers shall be considered
"tributary". (Ord. 2007-4, 2-20-2007)
10-3L-4: PERMITTED USES:
All permitted uses allowed and regulated by the applicable zoning district
underlying this shore land overlay district as indicated on the official zoning
district map. (Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
10-3L-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
All conditional uses and applicable attached conditions allowed and regulated
by the applicable zoning district underlying this shore land overlay district
as indicated on the official zoning district map. (Ord. 2003-2, 8-5-2003)
10-3L-5-1: INTERIM USES:
Interim uses as determined by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2003-2,
8-5-2003)
10-3L-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Any use permitted as accessory by the applicable zoning district underlying
this shore land overlay district as indicated on the official zoning district
map. (Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
10-3L-7: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   More Restrictive Standards: The following dimensional requirements
shall apply to all shore lands of all public waters within the city. Where the
requirements of the underlying zoning district as shown on the official zoning
map are more restrictive than those set forth herein, then the more restrictive
standards shall apply.
   B.   Lot Area; Lot Width: The lot area (in square feet) and lot width (in
feet) for lots created after the date of enactment hereof for the lake and
river classifications are as follows: (Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
  Natural       Recreational General
  Environmental Development  Development
  Waters        Waters       Waters
                           Natural       Recreational               General
                           Environmental Development                Development
                           Waters        Waters                     Waters
Unsewered Areas:                                                   
 Lot area (feet)          80,000        40,000                     20,000
  Water frontage and lot
 width at building line   200           150                        100
  (feet)
  Building setback from
 ordinary high water mark 150           100                        75
  (feet)
  Building setback from                              50
 roads and highways       ------        (federal, state, or        ------
  (feet)                                 county)
  Sewage systems setback
 from ordinary high water 150           75                         50
  mark (feet)
  Sewage system elevation
 above highest ground     3             3                          3
  water level or bedrock
  (feet)
 On urban rivers lot width is 100 feet, setback is 100 feet.        
 On forested rivers lot width is 200 feet, setback is 150 feet.     
Sewered Areas: All provisions for unsewered areas shall apply to sewered areas
except for the following, which shall supersede the provisions applied to
unsewered areas:
 Lot area (feet):                                                 
 Waterfront lots          40,000        20,000                     20,000
 Interior lots            20,000        20,000                     20,000
  Water frontage and lot
 width at building line   125           100                        100
  (feet)
  Building setback from
 ordinary high water mark 150           100                        75
  (feet)
 On urban rivers lot width is 100 feet, setback is 75 feet.         
 Forested rivers lot width is 100 feet, setback is 150 feet.        
 
(Ord. 8, 12-17-1996; amd. Ord. title 10-3L-7.1, 4-15-2003; Ord. 2003-11, 12-16-
2003; Ord. 2008-13, 11-18-2008)
   C.   Setbacks:
      1.   Exception: The setbacks listed in subsection B of this section apply
to all structures except docks and piers.
      2.   String Rule: Where development exists on both sides of a proposed
building site, structural setbacks may be altered to take setbacks of existing
structures into account, as determined by the zoning administrator. However, no
structures shall be allowed in the shore impact zone or the bluff impact zone.
      3.   Additional Setbacks: In addition to the setbacks listed in
subsection B of this section, there shall be an additional setback of thirty
feet (30') from the top of the bluff and an additional setback of fifty feet
(50') from any unplatted cemetery. (Ord. 2007-4, 2-20-2007)
   D.   Lots Of Record: (Rep. by Ord. 2009-18, 1-5-2010)
   E.   Access To Public Waters/Sharing Riparian Rights: Shoreline lots may not
provide additional docks, boat storage or other riparian rights to nonshoreline
lots. (Ord. 2007-4, 2-20-2007)
10-3L-8: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Placement Of Roads And Parking Areas: The placement of roads and
parking areas in shore land areas shall be controlled in accordance with the
following criteria:
      1.   Impervious Surface: No impervious surface shall be placed within
fifty feet (50') of the ordinary high water mark.
      2.   Setback Requirements: Where feasible and practical, all roads and
parking areas shall meet the setback requirements established for structures.
      3.   Parking Areas: Natural vegetation or other natural materials shall
be used in order to screen parking areas when viewed from the water. (Ord. 8,
12-17-1996)
10-3L-9: SHORE LAND ALTERATIONS:
   A.   Removal Of Natural Vegetation: The removal of natural vegetation shall
be restricted to prevent erosion into public waters, to consume nutrients in
the soil, and to preserve shore land aesthetics. Removal of natural vegetation
in the shore land overlay district shall be subject to the following
provisions:
      1.   Selective Removal: Selective removal of natural vegetation shall be
allowed; provided, that sufficient vegetative cover remains to screen cars,
dwellings, and other structures when viewed from the water.
      2.   Clear Cutting: Clear cutting of natural vegetation shall be
prohibited.
      3.   Restoration: Natural vegetation shall be restored insofar as
feasible after any construction project is completed in order to retard surface
runoff and soil erosion.
      4.   Exception: The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
permitted uses which normally require the removal of natural vegetation.
   B.   Grading And Filling: Grading and filling in shore land areas or
alterations of the natural topography where the slope of the land is toward a
public water or a watercourse leading to a public water must be authorized by a
conditional use permit. The permit may be granted subject to the conditions
that:
      1.   The smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for as short a time as
feasible;
      2.   Temporary ground cover, such as sod, is planted;
      3.   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment are employed;
      4.   Fill is stabilized to accepted engineering standards.
   C.   Stairways, Lifts And Landings:
      1.   Width: Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet (4') in width
on residential lots. Wider stairways may be used in planned unit developments.
      2.   Landings: Landings for stairways and lifts may not exceed thirty two
(32) square feet in area. Larger landings are permitted in planned unit
developments.
      3.   Canopies; Roofs: Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways,
lifts or landings.
      4.   Location: Stairways, lifts and landings must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots as viewed from the surface of the
public water, assuming summer leaf-on conditions when practical.
   D.   Significant Historic Sites: No structure may be placed on a significant
historic site, as identified by the Minnesota Historical Society, in a manner
that affects the value of the site unless adequate information about the site
has been removed and documented in a public repository.
   E.   Steep Slopes: The zoning administrator must evaluate possible soil
erosion impacts and development visibility from public waters before issuing a
permit for construction of sewage treatment systems, roads, driveways,
structures, or other improvements on steep slopes.
   F.   Topographic Alterations/Grading And Filling:
      1.   Permit Required: The movement of more than ten (10) cubic yards of
material on steep slopes or within shore or bluff impact zones and the movement
of more than fifty (50) cubic yards of material outside of steep slopes and
shore and bluff impact zones requires a permit from the city.
      2.   Wetlands: No filling of wetlands is permitted.
      3.   Roads, Driveways, Parking Areas: Roads, driveways and parking areas
must not be placed in the bluff and shore impact zones when other reasonable
and feasible placement alternatives exist. (Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
10-3L-10: EXCEPTIONS:
Exceptions to the placement of structures on lots shall be as follows:
   A.   Piers; Docks: Location of piers and docks shall be controlled by
applicable state and local regulations. (Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
   B.   Setbacks: (Rep. by Ord. 2007-4, 2-20-2007)
   C.   Conditional Uses: Commercial, industrial, or permitted open space uses
requiring location on public waters may be allowed as conditional uses closer
to such waters than the setbacks specified. (Ord. 8, 12-17-1996)
ARTICLE M. PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-3M-1: Purpose And Intent
10-3M-2: Uses
10-3M-3: Setbacks, Lot Area, And Building Height
10-3M-4: Integrated Design
10-3M-5: Preapplication Sketch Review
10-3M-6: General Plan
10-3M-7: Final Plan
10-3M-8: Periodic PUD Review
10-3M-9: Plan Amendment Of A PUD
10-3M-10: General Requirements
10-3M-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of the planned unit development district (PUD) is to provide a
comprehensive procedure intended to allow greater flexibility in the
development of neighborhoods or nonresidential areas than would be possible
under a conventional zoning district. The decision to zone property to PUD is a
public policy decision for the city council to make in its legislative
capacity. The intent of this article is to:
   A.   Provide for the establishment of planned unit development (PUD) zoning
districts in appropriate settings and situations, to create or maintain a
development pattern that complies with the city's comprehensive plan.
   B.   Allow for the mixing of land uses within a development when such mixing
of land uses could not otherwise be accomplished under this chapter.
   C.   Provide for variations to the strict application of the land use
regulations in this chapter in order to improve site design and operation,
while at the same time incorporating design elements (e.g., construction
materials, landscaping, lighting, etc.) that exceed the city's standards to
offset the effect of any variations.
   D.   Promote a more creative and efficient approach to land use within the
city, while at the same time protecting and promoting the health, safety,
comfort, aesthetics, economic viability, and general welfare of the city.
   E.   Preserve and enhance natural features and open spaces.
   F.   Maintain or improve the efficiency of public streets and utilities.
   G.   Ensure the establishment of appropriate transitions between differing
land uses.
   H.   Provide for the maintenance of, and an amendment procedure for, those
planned unit developments existing as of February 10, 2015.
      1.   Any planned unit development approved by conditional use permit and
legally existing prior to March 17, 2015, shall remain in full force and effect
and may be continued in like fashion and activity. However, any change to such
a use or building shall require a PUD general plan and rezoning to be processed
according to this article, except as allowed as minor amendments in section
10-3M-9 of the City Code. (Ord. 2015-06, 3-17-2015; amd. Ord. 2023-013, 9-19-
2023)
10-3M-2: USES:
   A.   All permitted uses, permitted accessory uses, conditional uses, interim
uses, and uses allowed by administrative permit contained in articles A through
K of this chapter shall be treated as potentially allowable uses within a PUD
district, provided they would be allowable on the site under the city's
comprehensive plan.
   B.   Density and land uses allowed by the comprehensive plan may be allowed
to shift within an approved PUD. For example, a ten (10) acre site with seven
(7) acres of "commercial" guiding and three (3) acres of "medium density
residential" guiding could be developed with seventy percent (70%) of the land
area commercial and thirty percent (30%) of the land area at the medium
residential density identified in the comprehensive plan. This type of shift
would only be allowed as part of a PUD and the location of uses within the site
would be determined as part of the PUD process. This implementation technique
would not require an amendment to the future land use map. (Ord. 2015-06, 3-17-
2015)
10-3M-3: SETBACKS, LOT AREA, AND BUILDING HEIGHT:
The various setback, lot area, and height regulations of the most closely
related conventional zoning district shall be considered presumptively
appropriate, but may be departed from to accomplish the purposes described in
this article. (Ord. 2015-06, 3-17-2015)
10-3M-4: INTEGRATED DESIGN:
A PUD shall consist of a harmonious arrangement and selection of land uses in
groupings of buildings that are planned and designed as an integrated unit. The
integrated design shall include elements such as building orientation and
materials, utilities, parking areas, traffic and pedestrian circulation, and
open spaces. (Ord. 2015-06, 3-17-2015)
10-3M-5: PREAPPLICATION SKETCH REVIEW:
Prior to the filing of a PUD general plan application, the applicant shall
submit a sketch of the project to the zoning administrator. The sketch may be
conceptual and may include the following related materials:
   A.   Information Requirement: A sketch plan application shall be filed with
the planning and zoning administrator on an official application form. The
application shall be accompanied by the fee as set forth in this code. The
application shall also be accompanied by detailed written and graphic
materials, the number and size as prescribed by the planning and zoning
administrator, fully describing the proposed project. The application shall be
considered as being officially submitted and complete when the applicant has
complied with all the specified submittal requirements, as described in this
section.
      1.   A scale drawing of the proposed site with reference to existing
development within two hundred feet (200') of adjacent properties.
      2.   General location of proposed structures.
      3.   Tentative street arrangements, both public and private.
      4.   Amenities to be provided such as recreational areas, open space,
walkways, etc.
      5.   General location of parking areas.
      6.   Proposed public sanitary sewer, water and storm drainage.
      7.   A statement showing the proposed density of the project with the
method of calculating said density also shown.
      8.   Topographic contours at two foot (2') intervals.
      9.   Wetland delineation.
      10.   Proposed general schedule of development.
      11.   Other information or materials useful in reviewing the sketch.
   B.   Analysis: The planning and zoning administrator shall review the sketch
and provide informal comments. The planning and zoning administrator shall have
the prerogative and authority to refer the sketch to the planning and zoning
commission and/or city council for discussion, review, and informal comment.
Any opinions or comments provided on the sketch by the planning and zoning
administrator, planning and zoning commission, and/or city council shall be
considered advisory only and shall not constitute a binding decision.
   C.   Filing: Requests for preapplication sketch review shall be filed with
the planning and zoning administrator on an official application form. The
application shall be accompanied by the fee as set forth in this code. The
application shall also be accompanied by detailed written and graphic
materials, the number and size as prescribed by the planning and zoning
administrator, fully describing the proposed project. The application shall be
considered as being officially submitted and complete when the applicant has
complied with all the specified submittal requirements, as described in this
section. (Ord. 2015-06, 3-17-2015)
10-3M-6: GENERAL PLAN:
A PUD general plan is a plan and supportive text depicting general land use,
circulation, open space, utilities, etc., for parcels of land within a PUD.
   A.   Application Procedure: PUD zoning applications shall be processed
according to the evaluation criteria and procedures outlined in section
10-7-3 of this title.
   B.   Information Requirement:
      1.   The information required for all PUD general plan applications shall
be as specified in sections
10-7-3 and
10-7-4 of this title. The PUD general plan and rezoning applications shall be
submitted and processed concurrently.
      2.   If the PUD will be developed in different phases, the applicant
shall submit a phasing plan for construction of the various elements of the
entire PUD.
      3.   Draft of any easements and restrictive covenants prior to sale of
any land or dwelling unit within the PUD and of the establishment and
activation of any entity that is to be responsible for the management and
maintenance of any public or common open space or service facility.
      4.   The planning and zoning administrator, planning and zoning
commission, and/or city council may excuse an applicant from submitting any
specific item of information or document required by this section which it
finds to be unnecessary to the consideration of the specific PUD being
considered.
   C.   Zoning Enactment: A rezoning of a parcel of land to PUD shall not
become effective until such time as the city council approves an ordinance
reflecting said amendment, which shall take place at the time the city council
approves the general plan.
   D.   Required Findings: The planning and zoning commission and the city
council shall approve the requested PUD general plan and rezoning only if they
find the proposal complies with the following:
      1.   The planned development is not in conflict with the comprehensive
plan.
      2.   The planned development is not in conflict with the intent of the
underlying zoning district.
      3.   The planned development is not in conflict with other applicable
provisions of the city's zoning ordinance.
      4.   The planned unit development is consistent with purpose and intent
of this article.
      5.   The planned development is of sufficient size, composition, and
arrangement that its construction, marketing, and/or operation is feasible as a
complete unit without dependence upon any other subsequent unit or phase.
      6.   The planned development will not create an excessive burden on
parks, schools, streets and other public facilities and utilities which serve
or are proposed to serve the planned development.
      7.   The planned development will not have an undue and adverse impact on
the reasonable enjoyment of the neighborhood property.
      8.   The quality of the building and site design proposed by the PUD plan
shall substantially enhance the aesthetics of the site, shall demonstrate
higher standards, more efficient and effective uses of streets, utilities and
public facilities, it shall maintain and enhance any natural resources within
the development, and create a public benefit that is greater than what would be
achieved through the strict application of the primary zoning regulations.
(Ord. 2015-06, 3-17-2015)
10-3M-7: FINAL PLAN:
After approval of the general plan, the applicant may apply for final plan
approval for all or a portion of the PUD. The final plan shall be accompanied
by a fee as set forth in the fee schedule on file with the city. The applicant
shall submit the following material for review by and approval of the planning
and zoning administrator prior to issuance of any building permit(s):
   A.   If the PUD will be developed in different phases, the applicant shall
submit a phasing plan for construction of the various elements of the entire
PUD.
   B.   Development plans in final form, based on the approved general plan,
covering that portion of the PUD where building permits will be requested under
the phasing plan.
   C.   Proof of recording any easements and restrictive covenants prior to
sale of any land or dwelling unit within the PUD and of the establishment and
activation of any entity that is to be responsible for the management and
maintenance of any public or common open space or service facility.
   D.   All certificates, seals and signatures required for the dedication of
land and recording of documents.
   E.   Any other plans, agreements or specifications necessary for the
planning and zoning administrator to review the proposed final plan.
   F.   Single-family developments and PUD districts approved for only one
building shall be exempt from the requirement for a PUD final plan. (Ord. 2015-
06, 3-17-2015)
10-3M-8: PERIODIC PUD REVIEW:
The city council may require periodic review of a PUD as a condition to
approval of a PUD general plan in order to ensure compliance with the
conditions of the PUD. At such time the city council may, at its discretion
choose to take additional testimony on the PUD. (Ord. 2015-06, 3-17-2015)
10-3M-9: PLAN AMENDMENT OF A PUD:
   A.   Minor Plan Amendment: Plan amendments may be approved by the planning
and zoning administrator, provided that the changes do not involve the
following:
      1.   Increase in floor area of structures or number of dwelling units of
more than ten percent (10%).
      2.   Changes involving ten percent (10%) or more of the site area.
      3.   Alteration of any condition attached or modification to the final
development plan made by the city council.
   B.   Major Amendment: Any amendment not eligible for a minor amendment shall
be considered a major amendment. The same review procedure shall be followed
for a major amendment of a PUD as was followed with respect to the PUD general
plan, as outlined in section
10-3M-6 of this article. (Ord. 2015-06, 3-17-2015)
10-3M-10: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Records: The planning and zoning administrator shall maintain a record
of all PUD zones approved by the city, including all pertinent project plans,
any conditions imposed on a project by the city council, and such other
information as the planning and zoning administrator may deem appropriate.
   B.   Withdrawal Of An Application: Any application under this article may be
withdrawn by an applicant without prejudice at any time prior to final city
council action.
   C.   Platting Of A PUD: In the event that a PUD is to be subdivided into
lots or parcels for the purpose of separate ownership, such PUD shall be
platted under the platting procedures contained in the subdivision regulations
(title 11 of this code). The preliminary plat shall be processed in conjunction
with the general plan as outlined in section
10-3M-8 of this article.
   D.   Final Plat: A separate action on the final plat shall be processed
before the city council prior to the approval of a final plan.
   E.   Conveyance Of Property Within A PUD: In the event that any real
property within an approved PUD is conveyed in total or in part, the buyer(s)
thereof shall be bound by all provisions of the PUD and the general plan for
that project. However, nothing in this article shall be construed as to make
such conveyed property nonconforming with regard to normal zoning standards as
long as the conveyed property conforms with the approved PUD and the general
plan for a project.
   F.   Performance Agreement/Financial Guarantee: If the project includes
public improvements, the applicant shall enter into a development agreement
with the city as described in title 11, chapter 5 of this code.
   G.   Expiration Of PUD Approval: Unless the city council specifically
approves a different time period, the approval of a PUD shall expire one year
from the date it was approved, unless the applicant has commenced the
authorized use; or, unless before expiration of the one year period, the
applicant submits a written request for an extension thereof. Such request for
an extension shall include the following: 1) an explanation for why the
authorized use has not commenced, 2) what, if any, good faith efforts have been
made to commence the authorized use, 3) the anticipated commencement date for
the authorized use, and 4) the signature of the applicant and property owner.
The planning and zoning administrator may approve up to two (2) such extensions
of not more than one additional year per extension. (Ord. 2015-06, 3-17-2015)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL BUILDING AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose
10-4-2: Yard Requirements
10-4-3: Larger Lot Required
10-4-4: Height Requirements
10-4-5: Building Requirements
10-4-6: General Performance Standards
10-4-7: Storage Standards
10-4-8: Screening/Landscaping/Fencing
10-4-9: Forestland Conversion Standards
10-4-10: Architectural Design Standards
10-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish general development performance
standards. These standards are intended and designed to assure compatibility of
uses; to prevent urban blight, deterioration and decay; and to enhance the
health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the community. (Ord.
2014-19, 6-17-2014)
10-4-2: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Yard requirements are set forth under each zoning district. In addition, the
following requirements shall be complied with:
   A.   Single Use Of Yard Or Open Space: No required yard or other open space
allocated to a building or dwelling group shall be used to satisfy yard, other
open space, or minimum lot area requirements for any other building.
   B.   Encroachment Exceptions: The following shall not be considered to be
encroachments on yard requirements:
      1.   Cantilevers up to ten feet (10') in width, chimneys up to six feet
(6') in width, and flues, leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental
features, cornices, eaves, gutters, and the like, provided they do not project
more than thirty inches (30") into a required yard setback.
      2.   Foundation insulation, siding insulation, and siding.
      3.   Uncovered walkways, uncovered stoops, and uncovered steps within a
front yard.
      4.   Terraces, uncovered steps, decks, patios, uncovered porches,
uncovered stoops and similar features that do not extend above the height of
the main living level of the principal structure, provided that in no case
shall any such feature be closer than ten feet (10') from a side or rear lot
line. Such features shall comply with the required front yard setback. No
encroachment shall be permitted in existing or required drainage and utility
easements, unless approved by the City Engineer.
      5.   Window wells and their related covers shall not encroach in existing
or required drainage or utility easements, unless approved by the City
Engineer.
      6.   Flagpoles, provided that the flagpole is no closer than 15 feet from
any property line and no portion of the pole, or any appurtenances attached
thereto, extends beyond any property line.
   C.   Party Walls: Side yard setback requirements do not apply to party walls
within a building. Additionally, the extension of a party wall to screen
patios, decks or other open space areas may be allowed by the Zoning
Administrator provided such walls are constructed of the same materials as the
principal buildings. Such walls are not considered fences and may be
constructed along the common lot line.
   D.   Through Lots: Through lots shall have a required front yard on each
street.
   E.   Required Front Yard Setback Exceptions For New Or Expanded Homes On
Existing Lots: In the case of single-family residential lots platted prior to
the date of this chapter, the required front yard setback as established by the
respective zoning districts may be reduced to a distance equaling the average
front yard setback of existing principal structures adjacent to the lot
fronting on the same street. The Zoning Administrator shall approve the reduced
setback if there is compliance with this chapter and all other applicable
ordinances. (Ord. 2018-001, 1-2-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-020, 12-21-2021)
10-4-3: LARGER LOT REQUIRED:
In areas served by private wells or private sewage disposal systems, the City
Council may require larger lots than required by the zoning districts if soil
tests indicate that a larger lot is necessary to ensure the sanitary function
of such systems. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
10-4-4: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Exceptions: The building height limits established in each zoning
district shall not apply to the following list of items, except that no such
structural element may exceed fifty feet (50') in total height, or ten feet
(10') above the actual building height, whichever is less:
      1.   Amateur radio antennas.
      2.   Antennas installed on an existing structure.
      3.   Belfries.
      4.   Chimneys or flues.
      5.   Church spires.
      6.   Cooling towers.
      7.   Cupolas and domes which do not contain usable space.
      8.   Elevator penthouses.
      9.   Fire and hose towers.
      10.   Flagpoles shall be limited to a maximum of 50 feet in height
regardless of building height.
      11.   Grain elevators, silos, barns and other structures on farms.
      12.   Monuments.
      13.   Necessary mechanical and electrical appurtenances.
      14.   Observation towers.
      15.   Parapet walls.
      16.   Public and semipublic utility facilities or essential services.
      17.   Solar panels.
      18.   Smokestacks.
   B.   Wireless Telecommunications Towers: Wireless telecommunications towers,
including amateur radio antennas, shall be regulated by title 9, chapter 4 of
this Code. (Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019; amd. Ord. 2021-020, 12-21-2021)
10-4-5: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Number: Not more than one principal building shall be allowed on any
lot.
   B.   Size: All principal structures shall be a minimum thirty feet (30') in
length and twenty four feet (24') in width over that entire minimum length.
Width measurements shall not take into account overhangs and other projections
beyond the principal walls.
   C.   Parapet Walls: Use of parapet walls may only increase actual building
height by up to three feet (3') regardless of how tall the parapet wall is.
   D.   Footings: All principal structures shall have a continuous concrete
perimeter footing in compliance with title 9, chapter 1, "Building Code", of
this Code.
   E.   Building Elevation: For all zoning districts, the lowest floor
elevation of any structure must be above "periodically saturated soil"
conditions, "100-year storm water elevation" or ordinary high water mark as
defined and enforced in section
9-1-5 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019)
10-4-6: GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Grading And Drainage: No land shall be developed and no use shall be
permitted in the City that results in water runoff causing flooding, erosion,
or deposit of sediment on adjacent properties which is inconsistent with the
grading and erosion control plan provisions of the Subdivision Ordinance.
   B.   Visibility: Vision clearance areas are triangle shaped areas located at
the intersection of any combination of rights-of-way, alleys or driveways.
Except as may be approved by the Zoning Administrator, no wall, fence,
structure, tree, shrub, vegetation or other obstruction shall be placed on or
extend into any yard or right-of-way area so as to pose a danger to traffic by
obscuring the view of approaching vehicular traffic or pedestrians from any
street or driveway. Visibility from any street or driveway shall be
unobstructed above a height of three feet (3'), measured from where both street
or driveway curblines intersect within a triangular area described as beginning
at the intersection of the projected curb line of two (2) intersecting streets
or drives, thence thirty feet (30') along one curb line, thence diagonally to a
point thirty feet (30') from the point of beginning along the other curb line.
The exception to this requirement shall be where there is a tree, planting,
landscape arrangement, or other minimal obstruction of sight within such area
that will not create a total obstruction wider than three feet (3'). These
requirements shall not apply to conditions that legally exist prior to the
effective date of this chapter unless the Zoning Administrator determines that
such conditions constitute a safety hazard.
   C.   Smoke: The emission of smoke by any use shall be in compliance with and
regulated by the State of Minnesota pollution control standards, Minnesota
regulation APC 7017.
   D.   Dust And Other Particulate Matter: The emission of dust, fly ash or
other particulate matter by any use shall be in compliance with and regulated
by the State of Minnesota pollution control standards, Minnesota regulation APC
7011.
   E.   Air Pollution: The emission of air pollution, including potentially
hazardous emissions, by any use shall be in compliance with and regulated by
Minnesota Statutes 116, as may be amended.
   F.   Noise: Noises emanating from any use shall be in compliance with the
Minnesota pollution control standards in Minnesota Rules chapter 7030 as may be
amended.
   G.   Sewage Disposal: Individual sewage disposal systems shall be installed
and operated in compliance with the applicable provisions of this Code.
   H.   Bulk Storage (Liquid): All uses associated with the bulk storage of all
gasoline, liquid fertilizer, chemical, flammable and similar liquids shall
comply with requirements of and have appropriate permits indicating compliance
with the Minnesota State Fire Code and Minnesota Department of Agriculture
regulations.
   I.   Radiation Emission: All activities that emit radioactivity shall comply
with the minimum requirements of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   J.   Electrical Emission: All activities which create electrical emissions
shall comply with the minimum requirements of the Federal Communications
Commission.
   K.   Setbacks From Public Streets: All setbacks from public streets or
proposed public streets shall be measured from the planned widened rights-of-
way in accordance with City policy. All buildings shall be so placed so that
they will not obstruct future streets which may be constructed by the City in
conformity with existing streets and according to the system and standards
employed by the City. (Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019)
10-4-7: STORAGE STANDARDS:
   A.   Residential Zoning Districts: All materials and equipment shall be
stored within a building or fully screened so as not to be visible from
adjoining properties, except for the following:
      1.   Agricultural equipment and materials if these are used or intended
for use on the premises.
      2.   Boats and house trailers, less than twenty feet (20') in length, are
permissible if stored in a side or rear yard not less than ten feet (10')
distance from any property line.
      3.   Construction and landscaping materials and equipment currently being
used for construction on the premises.
      4.   Laundry drying equipment.
      5.   Off street parking except as otherwise regulated herein.
      6.   Outdoor furniture and lawn and garden equipment.
      7.   Swings, slides and other play equipment.
      8.   Wood for burning in a fireplace, stove or furnace provided it is
stored as follows:
         a.   In a neat and secure stack, not exceeding five feet (5').
         b.   The wood stack is not infested with rodents.
         c.   The wood is not kept in a front yard.
   B.   Nonresidential Zoning Districts:
      1.   Outside Storage/Display:
         a.   Exterior storage and display shall be governed by the respective
zoning district in which such use is located.
         b.   The area used for outside storage shall be hard surfaced with
blacktop or concrete, unless specifically approved by the City Council, to
control dust and drainage.
         c.   All exterior storage shall be located in the rear or side yard
and shall be screened in accordance with the standards in subsection
10-4-8A of this chapter, so as not to be visible from adjoining properties and
public streets except for the following:
            (1)   Merchandise being displayed for sale in accordance with
zoning district requirements, subject to approval of a conditional use permit.
The conditional use permit shall only be granted if the City Council finds:
               (A)   The proposed storage/display is clearly accessory to the
principal use.
               (B)   The proposed storage/display will not conflict with any
required parking areas, drive aisles or loading areas.
               (C)   The proposed storage/display will only be located in
approved areas.
            (2)   Materials and equipment currently being used for construction
on the premises.
   C.   All Zoning Districts:
      1.   Passenger automobiles and trucks not currently licensed by the
State, or which are incapable of movement under their own power due to
mechanical deficiency, which are parked or stored outside for a period in
excess of ninety six (96) hours, and all materials stored outside in violation
of the City ordinances are considered refuse or junk and shall be disposed of
pursuant to City regulations.
      2.   Any accumulation of refuse not stored in containers which comply
with this Code, or any accumulation of refuse including car parts is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and may be abated by order of the Zoning
Administrator, as provided by Minnesota Statutes and title 6, chapter 3 of this
Code. The cost of abatement shall be recovered in accordance with the
applicable provisions of title 6, chapter 3 of this Code.
      3.   Except for temporary construction trailers and mobile services
operated by public service agencies (i.e., bookmobile, bloodmobiles, etc.) as
allowed by the City, and trailers parked in a designated and improved loading
area, no vehicle may be used for office, business, industrial manufacturing,
testing, or storage of items used with or in a business, commercial or
industrial enterprise, unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      4.   The City Council may order the owner of any property to cease or
modify open storage uses including existing uses, provided it is found that
such use constitutes a threat to the public health, safety, convenience, or
general welfare.
   D.   Storage Of Garbage And Trash:
      1.   No exterior incineration of trash or garbage is permissible.
      2.   No exterior storage of trash or garbage is permissible except in an
accessory building enclosed by fully opaque walls and/or fully opaque fences.
These required trash enclosures shall have a concrete foundation or other
similar surface approved by the Zoning Administrator. The exterior color of the
walls and/or fences of the trash enclosure shall match the primary exterior
color of the principal structure. Covered garbage cans in Agricultural and
Single-Family Districts are exempt from these screening requirements.
      3.   Any accumulation of refuse not stored in containers which comply
with this Code, or any accumulation of refuse including car parts which has
remained on a property for more than thirty (30) days is hereby declared to be
a nuisance and may be abated by order of the Zoning Administrator, as provided
by Minnesota Statutes. (Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019; amd. Ord. 2021-020, 12-21-
2021)
10-4-8: SCREENING/LANDSCAPING/FENCING:
   A.   Screening:
      1.   Required: Emphasis shall be placed on screening and buffering when
adjacent to County or State roadway corridors and in areas where Nonresidential
Districts abut Residential Districts. Screening shall be required for service
yards, refuse, and waste removal areas, loading docks, truck parking areas, and
other similar areas which tend to be unsightly. The screening may be
accomplished through the use of walls, fencing, dense planting effective year
round or any combination of these elements.
         a.   Screening shall be in harmony with the materials of the building,
surroundings or other furnishing.
         b.   The screening shall be equal to or greater than the height of the
object being screened as deemed appropriate by the City.
         c.   Required screening shall not be located in the vision clearance
areas as defined by this Code.
      2.   Natural Vegetation: Street or utility easements or planned rights-
of-way with natural vegetation shall not be used to meet screening
requirements. Removal of any natural vegetation buffer now in place on
undeveloped property shall require submittal of a replacement screening plan.
      3.   Exception: This screening requirement is not applicable to
established business or industrial areas adjacent to property that is
subsequently rezoned to residential use.
   B.   Mechanical Equipment: Mechanical equipment, gas meters, satellite
dishes, and other utility hardware, whether located on the roof or exterior of
the building or on the ground adjacent to it, shall be designed (including
exterior color) and located to be aesthetically harmonious and compatible with
the building.
      1.   Screening may be required where the design, color and location of
the equipment are found to be ineffective to buffer noise or provide aesthetic
harmony.
      2.   When required to be screened from the public view, the screening
shall be with materials similar to the building’s exterior materials or by
heavy landscaping that will be effective year round or they shall be located so
as not to be visible from any public way.
      3.   The screening shall be one hundred percent (100%) opaque and equal
to or greater than the height of the object being screened.
      4.   No rooftop unit (RTU) shall be visible if viewed at a height of five
feet (5') above finish floor level at a distance of one hundred feet (100')
from the building; any visible portion of any RTU beyond this point shall be
painted to match the primary color of the exterior of the principal structure.
Use of parapet walls or pitched roof elements to screen equipment is
encouraged. In no case shall wooden fencing be used as a rooftop equipment
screen. All RTU screening elements shall match the primary color of the
exterior of the principal structure.
      5.   The mere addition of mechanical equipment to an existing building
shall not be considered an addition or a change in building height.
   C.   Fencing/Retaining Walls:
      1.   Permit Required: A fence permit is required from the City prior to
installation, relocation or alteration of any fence.
      2.   Height: Fences not more than four feet (4') in height shall be
allowed in the front yard setback. Fences not more than six feet (6') high
shall be allowed in side and rear yards and behind the front yard setback.
      3.   Corner Lots: On corner lots, no fence shall be located in a vision
clearance area unless it is in compliance with the visibility requirements of
subsection 10-4-6B of this chapter.
      4.   Finished Face: The finished face of the fence must face outward.
      5.   Placement On Property Line: Fences may be placed on property lines,
provided no damage of any kind results to abutting property.
      6.   Electric Or Barbed Wire Fences: Electric or barbed wire fences shall
only be permitted as an accessory use on farms when related to animal keeping
as allowed by section 10-5-10 of this title or farming. This provision shall
not apply to invisible fences for dogs or cats, which are allowable fences
Citywide.
      7.   Fence Materials: No fence in any district shall be constructed with
the use of razor wire, barb wire, chicken wire, welded wire, branches, wood
pallets, hay bales, corrugated metal siding, non-permanent plastic or vinyl
materials such as snow fences or silt fences, or any other materials originally
intended for other purposes, unless upon the showing of a high degree of
architectural quality achieved through the use of such, subject to prior
approval from the Zoning Administrator.
           8.   Retaining walls over four feet (4') in height shall require a
fence or guardrail that is a minimum of four feet (4') tall spanning the entire
length of the retaining wall that is over four feet (4') tall.
      9.   Exceptions:
         a.   Fences directly related to dog kennels, vegetable gardens, flower
gardens, tree fences, and similar functions may deviate from the fence material
requirements of this chapter, subject to prior approval from the Zoning
Administrator. In no case shall fence materials be allowed that pose a danger
to the public.
         b.   Fences up to a maximum height of five feet (5') that are directly
related to gardens may be located within the front yard setback provided there
is no more than forty (40) lineal feet of fence frontage along a public or
private street. The front yard garden fencing shall be constructed of welded
wire, garden mesh netting or other non-opaque materials, not including chicken
wire, chain link, snow fence or similar fences. The fencing material shall
reduce visual impact to adjacent properties and rights-of-way and blend into
the environment. Support posts shall be steel, wood or composite with minimum
diameter to blend into the natural environment. Except for a door entrance to a
garden enclosure, no horizontal posts shall be added to the upper half of the
fence to reduce visual impact. All fencing and related posts shall be of
natural colors with non-shine finish and shall be subject to review and
approval by the Zoning Administrator at the time of a fence permit to ensure
that the garden fencing is designed to blend into the natural environment with
minimal visual impact.
      10.   Conditional Use Permit Standards: Fences proposed within the
Industrial District that are over the height limits established in this section
shall require a conditional use permit. A conditional use permit shall not be
issued unless it meets the following standards:
         a.   The fence is in a location where fences up to six feet (6') are
permitted.
         b.   The fence shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height.
         c.   The fence shall not be located within the minimum building
setback, as required for principal structures, from the ordinary high water
level of lakes and streams.
   D.   Landscaping:
      1.   Purpose:
         a.   Purpose: The purpose of this subsection is to establish minimum
landscaping requirements to create a positive community image; to improve the
appearance of vehicular use areas and property abutting public rights-of-way;
to require buffering between noncompatible land uses; to protect, preserve and
promote the aesthetic appeal, character and value of the surrounding
neighborhoods; and to promote public health and safety through the reduction of
noise pollution, air pollution, visual pollution and glare.
         b.   Reduction Of Visual Impacts: The landscaping standards shall
require reduction of visual impacts associated with given uses, including, but
not limited to:
            (1)   Truck loading areas;
            (2)   Trash storage;
            (3)   Parking lots, interior lot areas and perimeters;
            (4)   Large unadorned building massing;
            (5)   Garage doors associated with auto oriented uses; and
            (6)   Vehicular stacking areas for drive-through uses.
      2.   General Landscape Requirements For All Zoning Districts:
         a.   Compliance: No new site development, permanent building or
structure construction, remodeling involving outside changes to the site or
vehicular use area modifications are allowed, unless the provisions of this
subsection are met for the property in its entirety.
         b.   Preservation: Landowners are encouraged to preserve as much of
their property in its natural, native state as possible.
         c.   Ground Coverage: All upland areas not otherwise forested or
improved with buildings, structures, landscaping, or other allowed impervious
surfaces shall be established with lawn that is of a species of grass normally
grown as permanent lawns and shall be established to seventy percent (70%)
coverage/thickness, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, except for the
following:
            (1)   Native seeding may be approved by the Zoning Administrator. A
site plan and planting schedule shall be submitted for review. Depending on the
size, location and visibility of the native area to adjacent properties and
right-of-way, the Zoning Administrator may forward the item to the City Council
for consideration. All native areas shall be established to seventy percent
(70%) coverage with approved plantings and then maintained at this coverage.
            (2)   Other coverage methods may be accepted as part of an overall
landscape plan.
         d.   Topsoil: Adequate topsoil shall be added to ensure growth of all
plantings.
         e.   Ground Coverage Not Allowed: Ground coverage shall not include
exposed sand, soil or weeds.
         f.   Maintenance: All landscaped areas shall be maintained by the
property owner and kept neat, clear and uncluttered. The property owner shall
be responsible for maintenance and replacement of trees, shrubs, grass, ground
covers and sodding. If required landscaping is not maintained or replaced, the
City may deem this a nuisance and proceed with abatement and recovery of cost
upon notice in accordance with the provisions of title 4, chapter 1 of this
Code.
         g.   Landscape Health: Plants must be sound, healthy, vigorous, and
free of disease, insect eggs and larvae.
         h.   Landscape Sizing: The following landscape sizing shall be
required at the time of planting. Larger plants may be used or specified at any
time.
 
Landscaping Type                  Minimum Size
Overstory deciduous (shade) trees 2 inch diameter (measured 6 inches above
                                  ground)
Coniferous (evergreen) trees      6 feet
Ornamental trees                  11/2 inch diameter (measured 6 inches above
                                  ground)
Shrubs                            3 gallons
 
         i.   Overstory Tree Equivalency: Up to fifty percent (50%) of the
required number of overstory trees on a site may be substituted with an
equivalent number of understory trees, smaller trees or shrubs. In such cases,
two (2) ornamental trees, two (2) 4-foot coniferous trees, two (2) 1.5-inch
diameter overstory trees, or ten (10) shrubs shall be equivalent to one
overstory tree.
         j.   Required Landscaping: Where required trees are removed to allow
placement of building addition or site expansion, the required trees shall be
replaced elsewhere on the property. Exceptions may be made by the Zoning
Administrator if sites become overcrowded with trees based on new planting
requirements.
         k.   Credit For Existing Trees:
         (1)   Rear And Side Yard Trees: Credit for existing rear and side yard
trees cannot be used to offset the front tree requirements.
         (2)   Mature Trees: Credit trees, when mature, must be able to be seen
by passing public when site is completed.
         (3)   Minimum Requirements: Such trees fulfill the minimum requirement
as to size and species. The Zoning Administrator shall determine the amount of
the credit for such existing trees based upon their location and distribution
in the lot.
         l.   Protection Of Existing Trees: Proper precautions to protect trees
during development shall be indicated on grading and landscape plans submitted
for plan review. The following protective measures shall be followed:
         (1)   Tree Fencing: Installation of snow fencing or polyethylene
laminate safety netting placed at the drip line or at the perimeter of the
critical root zone (CRZ), whichever is greater, of significant trees, specimen
trees, and woodlands to be preserved. No grade change, construction activity,
or storage of materials shall occur within this fenced area.
         (2)   Soil Chemistry: Measures shall be taken to prevent a change in
soil chemistry due to concrete washout and leakage or spillage of toxic
materials, such as fuels or paints.
         (3)   Retaining Walls: Installation of retaining walls or tree wells
to preserve trees must be no closer than the drip line or at the CRZ, whichever
is greater.
         (4)   Utilities: Placement of utilities in common trenches shall be
located outside of the drip line of trees to be preserved. The use of tunneled
installation for utilities is encouraged.
         (5)   Aeration, Fertilizer And Irrigation Systems: The use of tree
root aeration, fertilization, and/or irrigation systems is encouraged to
promote the health of trees to be preserved.
         (6)   Transplanting: Transplanting of existing trees is encouraged. If
trees cannot be immediately transplanted, the trees shall be moved to a
protected area for later transplanting into the construction area.
         (7)   Staking Of Trees And Plant Hardiness: The property owner is
responsible for keeping trees in a plumb position. When staking is required, it
shall occur so as not to create any hazards or unsightly obstacles. All wires
shall be encased in hose to prevent tree damage.
      3.   Landscape Plan Submission: Prior to commencement of turf removal,
grading, or planting, the property owner or developer shall prepare a landscape
plan acceptable to the City for review. The contents of the plan shall include
the following:
         a.   A landscape plan shall be submitted providing all information
required in this subsection. The plan shall be drawn to a scale between one
inch equals eight feet (1" = 8') scale and one inch equals one hundred feet (1"
= 100'), showing and labeling by name and dimensions all existing and proposed
property lines, easements, utility lines, buildings, and other structures,
vehicular use areas (including parking stalls, driveways, service areas, square
footage), and water outlets.
         b.   Planting schedules including the quantity of plants to be
installed, common name, botanical name, plant size at installation and at full
growth, and root type (balled and burlapped, container).
         c.   Typical elevations and/or cross sections as may be required.
         d.   Title block with the pertinent names and addresses (property
owner and person drawing plan), scale, date, north arrow.
         e.   Existing landscaping shall be shown including species and size.
Any approved material in satisfactory condition may be used to satisfy this
subsection in whole or in part.
      4.   Landscape Performance Standards For R-1, R-1A, R-2, RS And RR
Districts:
         a.   Ground Coverage: Subject to subsections D2c and D2e of this
section.
         b.   Tree Requirements:
            (1)   Minimum: A minimum of one deciduous tree shall be planted in
the front yard between the principal structure and street right-of-way. In the
case of a multiple frontage lot, each frontage will require a deciduous tree.
If the house is on the lake, the planting requirement will apply to both the
street frontage and land between the lake and the house.
            (2)   Credit For Existing Trees: A credit for existing trees that
are preserved which meet the minimum size requirements can be granted by the
City.
            (3)   Trees Not Allowed: Trees listed in subsection D5h of this
section are not allowed to be used as a credit or as acceptable tree planting.
         c.   Landscape Completion And Escrow:
            (1)   Certificate Of Occupancy: No certificate of occupancy will be
issued until after the property has been brought to final grade and all
required plantings and ground cover are installed.
            (2)   Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy: A Temporary Certificate
of Occupancy may be granted before landscaping work is completed, subject to
the completion of a Site Improvement Agreement and financial guarantee based on
the requirements of section 10-7-8 of this title.
      5.   Landscape Performance Standards For R-3, C1, C2, OS, I, CI, And PB
Districts:
         a.   Priorities: When establishing landscaped areas for a site, top
priority shall be given toward establishing landscaping areas in front yards
(between buildings and street frontages). A secondary priority shall be given
toward establishing landscaping areas around the site perimeter.
         b.   Ground Coverage: Subject to subsections D2c and D2e of this
section and the following.
         c.   Tree Requirements:
            (1)   A minimum of one overstory deciduous or coniferous tree is
required for every one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of total
building floor area, except for garage floor area. If a development does not
include an expansion of building floor area, one such tree is required for
every seventy five feet (75') of site perimeter.
            (2)   In addition to the trees required in subsection D5c(1) of
this section, a minimum of one overstory deciduous or coniferous tree is
required for every seventy five feet (75') of frontage along all roadways. The
Zoning Administrator may allow the required street frontage trees to be
clustered along the street frontage, provided there is adequate spacing between
trees, based on the canopy of the given species at maturity.
            (3)   Thirty percent (30%) of the total amount of required trees
shall be coniferous.
            (4)   Coniferous trees shall not be located within fifty feet (50')
of a driveway.
         d.   Shrubs: A minimum of one shrub is required for every four hundred
fifty (450) square feet of total building floor area, except for garage floor
area. If development does not include an expansion of building floor area, one
such shrub is required for every forty five feet (45') of site perimeter.
         e.   Interior Parking Lot Landscaping: In addition to the requirements
of this subsection, subsection 10-5-2C12 of this title includes requirements
for interior parking lot landscaping.
         f.   Remodeling Or Redevelopment: In recognition of the fact that
properties which have already been developed with permanent improvements as of
the effective date hereof generally have less flexibility in meeting landscape
requirements, the minimum quantities of trees and shrubs required in
subsections D5c and D5d of this section, shall be reduced by one-third (1/3) of
the requirements for new construction or development.
         g.   Landscape Completion And Escrow:
            (1)   Certificate Of Occupancy: No certificate of occupancy will be
issued until after the property has been brought to final grade and all
required plantings and ground cover are installed.
            (2)   Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy: A Temporary Certificate
of Occupancy may be granted before landscaping work is completed, subject to
the completion of a Site Improvement Agreement and financial guarantee based on
the requirements of section 10-7-8 of this title.
         h.   Trees Not Allowed: Trees not allowed or to be used as credit for
existing trees or trees which may not be planted to comply with the
requirements are:
            (1)   Box elder.
            (2)   Silver maple.
            (3)   Northern catalpa.
            (4)   Russian olive.
            (5)   F. ginkgo (female only).
            (6)   Mulberry.
            (7)   Cottonwood.
            i.   Planting For Wildlife Habitat:
            (1)   For wildlife habitat, when in doubt, plant:
               (A) Spruce or fir rather than pine;
               (B) A mixture of red and white oaks, including bur oak;
               (C) Fruit and nut bearing plants also edible by humans;
               (D) Native species rather than exotics or ornamental cultivars;
               (E) More warm season grass (prairie) than cool season grass
(brome and bluegrass).
            (2)   For year long food supply for wildlife:
               (A) Highbush cranberry.
               (B) Wild plum.
               (C) Crabapple.
               (D) Red osier dogwood.
               (E) Juneberry.
               (F) Chokecherry.
               (G) Gray dogwood.
               (H) Mountain ash.
               (I) Staghorn sumac.
         j.   Recommended Coniferous Trees:
            (1)   American larch (tamarack).
            (2)   Balsam fir.
            (3)   Black Hills spruce.
            (4)   Colorado spruce (blue spruce).
            (5)   Northern cedar (arborvitae).
            (6)   Eastern white pine.
            (7)   Norway red pine.
            (8)   White spruce.
         k.   Recommended Deciduous Trees:
            (1)   Red and bur oak.
            (2)   American linden.
            (3)   Amur maple.
   Note: Other materials may be used subject to City approval. Contact the
County Extension Service or DNR forestry, and local nurseries for additional
information regarding trees conducive to this area. (Ord. 2018-001, 1-2-2018;
amd. Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019; Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019; Ord. 2020-006, 7-21-
2020; Ord. 2023-013, 9-19-2023; Ord. 2024-008, 4-16-2024; Ord. 2025-004, 2-18-
2025)
10-4-9: FORESTLAND CONVERSION STANDARDS:
   A.   R-1, R-1A And RS Zoning Districts: "Forestland conversion" as defined
by section
10-2-2 of this title is not allowed in the R-1 Zoning District, except as
follows:
      1.   Road right-of-way and utility easement areas, site grading,
construction of permitted structures, on site septic systems, access roads,
utility service lines, firebreaks, parking, landscaped yard areas, gardens,
private recreation areas, and other accessory uses customary with R-
1 development approved by the City.
      2.   Expansion of an existing commercial agricultural use in existence at
the time of adoption hereof.
      3.   Park and public open space areas, as per plans approved by the City.
Open park areas not required for active recreation shall be landscaped and
replanted (as practical) with native forest species.
      4.   Forestland conversion in RS areas shall be allowed for the above
uses, subject to the requirement that residential development sites may be
cleared to a maximum of one-third (1/3) of the lot area or legal parcel of
property.
      5.   Landowners may request approval of a conditional use permit for
forestland conversion. The application must include a landscape plan meeting
the requirements of this title and a ground cover and erosion control plan with
implementation within six (6) months of plan approval. The conditional use
permit shall be reviewed for compliance with the general conditional use permit
standards in chapter 7 of this title.
   B.   R-2, R-3, C1, C2, OS, CI And I Zoning Districts: Forestland conversion
in the above zoning districts is allowed by a conditional use permit, subject
to the following conditions:
      1.   A land use application has been submitted with a development plan
and narrative explaining the need for forestland removal, including a landscape
plan meeting the requirements of this title.
      2.   A plan for screening adjacent property zoned for residential use
where necessary for requirements of this title has been accepted and approved
by the City.
      3.   A plan for ground cover and erosion control has been prepared per
current State requirements and has been accepted and approved by the City, with
implementation of the plan within six (6) months of approval. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-
17-2014; amd. Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019)
10-4-10: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish minimum design
standards for the exterior of buildings in all districts to ensure high quality
development and redevelopment that is compatible with adjacent land uses and
contributes to a quality community image to support the welfare of the City.
These design standards will:
      1.   Promote a community image that is appropriate and varied within the
diverse Baxter area.
      2.   Create a unified, harmonious and high quality visual environment
throughout the City.
      3.   Foster a distinctive and positive community image, thereby
identifying Baxter as a special place to live, work, and play.
      4.   Provide a more pleasant pedestrian environment and driving
experience.
      5.   Identify materials to be used in the various zoning districts.
   B.   Intent: The City intends that all districts shall strive toward the
highest level of quality in both design and construction. The criteria by which
all development and redevelopment in the City shall be judged are as follows:
      1.   Consistency with all provisions of the Comprehensive Plan, as
amended, zoning ordinance and subdivision ordinance not specifically overridden
by the provisions of these design standards; and all other applicable land use
regulations.
      2.   Complementary physical and visual relationships among existing, new
and proposed buildings, park areas and landscape treatments with the intent of
creating a cohesive appearance for the entire City.
      3.   Use of appropriate facade proportion, articulation, fenestrations,
materials and colors that are compatible with adjacent uses and creates a
pleasant pedestrian environment and driving experience.
   C.   Applicability:
      1.   New Construction: The design standards shall apply to all facades of
new development within all districts except that one-family detached dwellings
are exempt from the requirements of this section. The design standards shall be
in addition to the underlying zoning requirements.
      2.   Building Remodels And Additions: The design standards set forth in
this section shall apply to building remodels and additions pursuant to the
following rules:
         a.   Internal Remodeling: Internal remodeling that does not alter any
facade shall be exempt from any design standards set forth in this section. If
the interior remodel project requires exterior alterations, then it shall be
subject to this section.
         b.   Exemptions: All repair or replacement of any existing building
facade requiring a building permit shall be exempt from this section only if
the following conditions are met:
         (1)   General repainting of any facade provided the colors are earth
tone as allowed by subsection H of this section.
         (2)   Replacement of windows or doors with no change to size or
location.
         (3)   No more than one-third (1/3) of a non-conforming siding material
on any existing facade is replaced within any one year period. If more than
one-third (1/3) of a nonconforming siding material on any facade is replaced
within any one year period, then that facade shall no longer be exempt from
this section. Any other facades that have not had such repair shall remain
exempt as a nonconforming use.
         (4)   Approval of a facade improvement under the exemptions standards
in subsection C2b(3) of this section is contingent upon submission of a
building permit application identifying removal of up to one-third (1/3) of the
existing nonconforming exterior material of a building facade. This permit
application shall require a scaled drawing of the facade and the proposed
repair or replacement so that City staff can confirm no more than one-third (1/
3) of the nonconforming exterior material on any facade is removed.
         c.   Exterior Alteration and Building Additions: Any exterior
alteration including repair, replacement, remodel or addition that changes the
existing building’s height, roofline, footprint or usable area shall meet the
following standards:
         (1)   All exterior building alterations and additions, as defined in
subsection C2c above, shall use approved materials as set forth in subsection E
of this section. The front facade shall be brought into compliance with this
section. The City may allow the facade size, articulation and fenestrations,
exterior materials and roof pitches of the alteration or addition to match the
existing building façade and/or roof only if the cost of bringing the front
facade into compliance exceeds one-third (1/3) of the building permit valuation
of the alteration or addition. For lots with multiple street frontages, only
the façade facing the front lot line shall be considered a front façade for the
purposes of this subsection.
         (2)   Approval of subsection C2c(1) of this section is contingent on
submission of a written estimate of the construction costs with the complete
architectural review submittal pursuant to subsection J of this section.
         d.   Multi-Tenant Buildings: For multi-tenant buildings, this
subsection C2 applies only to the facade of that tenant space being altered.
         e.   Franchise Architecture: Franchise architecture (building design
that is trademarked or identified with a particular chain or corporation) shall
comply with this section.
   D.   Evaluation Of Design:
      1.   Facade Size And Articulation:
         a.   Facade Size: The building facade size (height and mass) in areas
of existing developments shall be in direct proportion to the surrounding
structures. All building components, such as windows, doors, eaves, soffits,
and parapets, shall have good proportions that relate to the building facade
and shall relate well with surrounding structures.
         b.   Articulation: Articulation is required for building facades that
are more than sixty feet (60') in width and faces (or is parallel to) a public
or private street as follows: To avoid long unbroken expanses, building facades
shall be divided into distinct modules not to exceed fifty feet (50') in length
that incorporate visible changes in the facade through the use of wall plane
projections, piers, columns, colonnades, arcades or similar architectural
features.
      2.   Roof Pitch/Material: Building heights shall be consistent with the
standards of the underlying zoning district. All roofs shall be flat, as
defined in Chapter 2 of this Title, or pitched. Pitched roofs shall have a
minimum pitch of six to twelve (6:12) rise to run for the main roof. For
additions to a principal structure or remodeling that requires compliance with
these regulations, the City may allow the roof pitch to match the existing
pursuant to subsection C2c(1) of this section. All pitched metal roofing
applications shall have concealed fasteners, except that District I tier 2
areas may have exposed fasteners. The exposed backs of any parapet should match
the primary exterior color. Any roof expanses greater than sixty feet (60') in
length are subject to subsection D1b of this section and shall be divided into
smaller increments not to exceed fifty feet (50') in length.
   E.   Allowable Materials By Zoning District: (Percentages of allowed
exterior materials shall be calculated excluding fenestrations except for
architectural glass, or doors that are 50 percent or less glass.)
      1.   District C1 and C2:
         a.   Face brick.
         b.   Natural stone.
         c.   Architectural glass.
         d.   Stucco.
         e.   EIFS.
         f.   Architectural concrete masonry units shall be limited to a
maximum of fifty percent (50%) on any front facade. Architectural concrete
masonry units may be used up to one hundred percent (100%) on nonfront facades.
         g.   Architectural precast concrete panels.
         h.   Architectural metal panels shall be limited to a maximum of fifty
percent (50%) on any facade.
         i.   Lap siding provided a minimum of an eight (8) inch reveal. Lap
siding shall be steel or an architectural composite such as fiber cement
composite, wood composites, or synthetic composites and shall have a high
degree of durability and longevity as determined by the zoning administrator.
         j.   Architectural composites including fiber cement composites,
synthetic composites, and related veneers. When an architectural composite is
proposed to imitate other proposed materials with a percentage restriction, the
architectural composite shall be added to the square footage of the material it
imitates to determine the total square footage of the material on each facade.
         k.   Accent materials shall be limited to a maximum of ten percent
(10%) per building facade as approved under subsection F of this section.
         l.   Other materials may be approved under subsection F of this
section.
      2.   District CI and I (tier 1):
         a.   Face brick.
         b.   Natural stone.
         c.   Architectural glass.
         d.   Stucco.
         e.   EIFS.
         f.   Architectural concrete masonry unit.
         g.   Architectural precast concrete panels.
         h.   Architectural metal panels.
         i.   Nonarchitectural metal material shall be limited to a maximum
coverage of twenty percent (20%) on the front facade. Nonarchitectural metal
material may be used up to one hundred percent (100%) on nonfront facades.
Metal material application on the front and nonfront facades are required to
have concealed fasteners with the exception that nonfront facades facing
District I tier 2 may have exposed fasteners. Finished metal overhead doors
necessary for the use are exempt from the twenty percent (20%) maximum. No
unfinished metal of any kind is allowed.
         j.   Architectural composites including fiber cement composites,
synthetic composites, and related veneers. When an architectural composite is
proposed to imitate other proposed materials with a percentage restriction, the
architectural composite shall be added to the square footage of the material it
imitates to determine the total square footage of the material on each facade.
         k.   Other materials may be approved under subsection F of this
section.
      3.   District I (tier 2):
         a.   Face brick.
         b.   Natural stone.
         c.   Architectural glass.
         d.   Stucco.
         e.   EIFS.
         f.   Architectural concrete masonry units.
         g.   Precast concrete panels.
         h.   Architectural metal panels.
         i.   Nonarchitectural metal material shall be limited to a maximum
coverage of forty percent (40%) on the front facade. Nonarchitectural metal
material may be used up to one hundred percent (100%) on nonfront facades.
Metal material application on the front and nonfront facade may have exposed
fasteners. Finished metal overhead doors necessary for the use are exempt from
the forty percent (40%) maximum. No unfinished metal of any kind is allowed.
         j.   Architectural composites including fiber cement composites,
synthetic composites, and related veneers. When an architectural composite is
proposed to imitate other proposed materials with a percentage restriction, the
architectural composite shall be added to the square footage of the material it
imitates to determine the total square footage of the material on each facade.
         k.   Other materials may be approved under subsection F of this
section.
      4.   District OS and PB:
         a.   Face brick.
         b.   Natural stone.
         c.   Architectural glass.
         d.   Stucco.
         e.   EIFS.
         f.   Siding materials - wood, steel, vinyl, or cementitious siding
(i.e., lap, board on board, board and batten, log and half log or shake) shall
be limited to a maximum of seventy percent (70%) on any front facade. Any of
these siding materials may be used up to one hundred percent (100%) on nonfront
facades.
         g.   Architectural concrete masonry units shall be limited to a
maximum of thirty percent (30%) of a each building facade. Utility buildings
five hundred (500) square feet or less that require a higher level or
durability, may request architectural concrete masonry units exceeding thirty
percent (30%) of a building facade through the conditional use permit process.
         h.   Architectural metal panels shall be limited to a maximum of fifty
percent (50%) on any facade.
         i.   Accent materials shall be limited to a maximum of ten percent
(10%) per building facade as approved under subsection F of this section.
         j.   Architectural composites including fiber cement composites,
synthetic composites, and related veneers. When an architectural composite is
proposed to imitate other proposed materials with a percentage restriction, the
architectural composite shall be added to the square footage of the material it
imitates to determine the total square footage of the material on each facade.
         k.   Other materials may be approved under subsection F of this
section.
      5.   All other districts (one-family detached dwellings are exempt):
         a.   Face brick.
         b.   Natural stone.
         c.   Architectural glass.
         d.   Siding materials - wood, steel, vinyl, or cementitious siding
(i.e., lap, board on board, board and batten, log and half log or shake) shall
be limited to a maximum of seventy percent (70%) on any front facade. Any of
these siding materials may be used up to one hundred percent (100%) on nonfront
facades.
         e.   Stucco.
         f.   EIFS.
         g.   Architectural precast concrete panels limited to a maximum of
thirty percent (30%) of each building façade.
         h.   Architectural concrete masonry unit shall be limited to a maximum
of thirty percent (30%) of each building facade. Utility buildings five hundred
(500) square feet or less that require a higher level of durability, may
request architectural concrete masonry units exceeding thirty percent (30%) of
a building facade through the conditional use permit process.
         i.   Other materials may be approved under subsection F of this
section.
   F.   Other Materials: In addition, materials not specifically listed may be
approved for use by the City, when used in accordance with this title. When
materials not specifically listed are proposed for use the Planning Commission
shall review such materials and the City Council shall make findings of fact
supporting or denying the use of those materials. The judgment of the City will
be based upon, but not limited to, the following factors set forth in
subsection M3 of this section.
   G.   Footings: All buildings shall be constructed with continuous concrete
perimeter footings meeting the requirements of the International Building Code.
   H.   Color: Colors shall be earth tone, harmonious and shall consist of
muted colors with low reflectance. Bright or brilliant colors and sharply
contrasting colors may be used only for accent purposes and shall be limited to
a maximum of ten percent (10%) of any single building facade.
   I.   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures and outbuildings must be of
similar materials, quality, architectural and aesthetic appearance and
conformance as the principal building or structure and must be approved by the
City. All accessory structures shall be color coordinated with the principal
building when the principal building is being retrofitted. The location and
construction of accessory structures are set forth in section 10-5-9 of this
title.
   J.   Electric Vehicle Charging Stations And Rooftop Solar: In all districts,
the City permits electric vehicle charging stations and rooftop solar
applications, subject to all State Code standards.
   K.   Architectural Review Submittal: The following is the minimum
information required to be submitted to the City for administrative or Council
approval:
      1.   A completed and signed land use application form.
      2.   A written narrative describing the proposal.
      3.   An electronic (PDF) format set of plans at the time of the
submittal.
         a.   Survey: Certified survey of the property by a registered
surveyor, if deemed necessary.
         b.   Architectural Plans: Preliminary scaled architectural plans and
colored elevations for the proposed building or buildings with notation of
exterior finish materials.
         c.   Site Plan: Scaled site plan including landscaping, lighting, site
amenities and mechanical equipment locations.
      4.   Samples of exterior finish materials.
   L.   Preliminary Meeting With Staff: Any applicant may request a meeting
with City staff prior to City Council review for general compliance with this
section.
   M.   Administration:
      1.   Building Permit Approval: No new construction, alteration of
existing buildings and other developments regulated by this section may be
initiated or issued a building permit without approval from the City of an
architectural review submittal.
      2.   Administrative Approval:
         a.   Approval: An administrative approval of an architecture review
submittal may be approved by City staff if the following standards are met:
            (1)   The architectural review submittal set forth in subsection J
of this section is determined complete by City staff.
            (2)   If an architectural review submittal meets this section and
associated City Code requirements.
      3.   Council Approval:
         a.   Approval: If a completed architectural review submittal deviates
from this section and associated City Code requirements, Planning Commission
review and Council approval is required. Other materials and deviations not
specifically listed may be approved for use by the City, when used in
accordance with this title. When materials not specifically listed are approved
for use, the City shall make findings of fact supporting the use of those
materials and deviations. The judgment of the City will be based upon, but not
limited to, the following factors:
            (1)   The color, shape, and texture of the proposed exterior
materials meet the purpose and intent set forth in this title;
            (2)   The character and exterior materials of the surrounding area;
            (3)   Whether the proposed exterior material is appropriate,
proportional, and not varied;
            (4)   The proposed exterior materials or architectural features are
LEED compatible or is another innovative material from new technology.
      4.   Expiration: Unless the City Council specifically approves a
different time period, the approval of an architectural review submittal shall
expire one year from the date it was approved. Any deviation from the approved
plans will require additional review.
      5.   Appeal: Any appeal of a decision shall be considered an appeal under
the process described in section
10-7-7 of this title. The Council may require a fee for any appeal. (Ord. 2014-
19, 6-17-2014; amd. Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016; Ord. 2018-001, 1-2-2018; Ord.
2021-015, 10-19-2021; Ord. 2023-013, 9-19-2023; Ord. 2024-004, 2-20-2024; Ord.
2024-014, 8-20-2024; Ord. 2025-004, 2-18-2025)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Signs
10-5-2: Off Street Parking
10-5-3: Loading Spaces
10-5-4: Lighting Standards
10-5-5: Drive-Through Businesses
10-5-6: Manufactured Homes And Recreational Camping Vehicles
10-5-7: Mining And Related Activities
10-5-8: Motor Fuel Stations
10-5-9: Accessory Structures
10-5-10: Animals
10-5-1: SIGNS:
   A.   Findings, Purpose And Effect:
      1.   Findings: The City Council hereby finds as follows:
         a.   Exterior signs have a substantial impact on the character and
quality of the environment.
         b.   Signs provide an important medium through which individuals may
convey a variety of messages.
         c.   Signs can create traffic hazards, aesthetic concerns and
detriments to property values, thereby threatening the public health, safety
and welfare.
         d.   The City's zoning regulations have included the regulation of
signs in an effort to provide adequate means of expression and to promote the
economic viability of the business community, while protecting the City and its
citizens from a proliferation of signs of a type, size, location and character
that would adversely impact upon the aesthetics of the community and threaten
the health, safety and welfare of the community. The regulation of the physical
characteristics of signs within the City has had a positive impact on traffic
safety and the appearance of the community.
      2.   Purpose And Intent: It is not the purpose or intent of this section
to regulate the message displayed on any sign; nor is it the purpose or intent
of this section to regulate any building design or any display not defined as a
sign, or any sign which cannot be viewed from outside a building. The purpose
and intent of this section is to:
         a.   Regulate the number, location, size, type, illumination and other
physical characteristics of signs within the City in order to promote the
public health, safety and welfare.
         b.   Maintain, enhance and improve the aesthetic environment of the
City by preventing visual clutter that is harmful to the appearance of the
community.
         c.   Improve the visual appearance of the City while providing for
effective means of communication, consistent with constitutional guarantees and
the City's goals of public safety and aesthetics.
         d.   Provide for fair and consistent enforcement of the sign
regulations set forth herein under the zoning authority of the City.
      3.   Effect: A sign may be erected, mounted, displayed or maintained in
the City if it is in conformance with the provisions of these regulations. The
effect of this section as more specifically set forth herein, is to:
         a.   Allow a wide variety of sign types in Commercial Zones, and a
more limited variety of signs in other zones, subject to the standards set
forth in this section.
         b.   Allow certain small, unobtrusive signs incidental to the
principal use of a site in all zones when in compliance with the requirements
of this section.
         c.   Prohibit signs whose location, size, type, illumination or other
physical characteristics negatively affect the environment and where the
communication can be accomplished by means having a lesser impact on the
environment and the public health, safety and welfare.
         d.   Provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this section.
   B.   Severability: If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase
of this section is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this section. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have adopted this section in each section,
subsection, sentence, or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one
or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared
invalid.
   C.   Substitution Clause: The owner of any sign which is otherwise allowed
by this section may substitute noncommercial copy in lieu of any other
commercial or noncommercial copy. This substitution of copy may be made without
any additional approval or permitting. The purpose of this provision is to
prevent any inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over noncommercial
speech, or favoring of any particular noncommercial message over any other
noncommercial message. This provision prevails over any more specific provision
to the contrary.
   D.   All Districts: Signs are a permitted accessory use in all use districts
subject to the following regulations:
      1.   Private Signs Prohibited: Private signs are prohibited within the
public right-of-way, public easements or on public property. With a written
limited use agreement with the City, signs may be allowed in the right-of-way
if the City, in its sole discretion, determines that the sign does not disturb
necessary sightlines, prevent right-of-way maintenance and other uses necessary
to a public right-of-way. This provision would include election and realtor
signs. Garage sale signs, family event signs, open house signs and auction
signs are permitted in the public right-of-way as long as they comply with
subsection D15 of this section. Nameplates on or near a residential mailbox
shall be permitted as long as the nameplate does not exceed five feet (5') in
height.
      2.   Illuminated Signs: Illuminated signs may be permitted, but devices
giving off an intermittent, flashing, scrolling or rotating beam of rays of
light shall be prohibited. No portion of the lighting surface shall be visible
from adjacent properties or roadways.
      3.   Visibility: Vision clearance areas are triangle shaped areas located
at the intersection of any combination of rights-of-way, alleys or driveways.
The sides of the triangle extend thirty feet (30') from the intersection of the
curb lines in either/each direction. Signs must meet all district setbacks and
no sign may be installed within this vision clearance area except in accordance
with subsection 10-4-6B of this title.
      4.   Dynamic Signs: Dynamic displays on signs are allowed subject to the
following conditions:
         a.   Only one dynamic sign shall be allowed per lot.
         b.   Dynamic displays are allowed only on monument and freestanding
signs for conditionally permitted uses in Residential Districts and for all
uses in other districts. Dynamic displays may occupy no more than fifty percent
(50%) of the actual copy and graphic area. The remainder of the sign must not
have the capability to have dynamic displays even if not used. Only one,
contiguous dynamic display area is allowed on a sign face.
         c.   A dynamic display may not change or move more often than once
every three (3) seconds, except one for which changes are necessary to correct
hour and minute, date, or temperature information. Time, date, or temperature
information is considered one dynamic display and may not be included as a
component of any other dynamic display. A display of time, date, or temperature
must remain for at least three (3) seconds before changing to a different
display, but the time, date, or temperature information itself may change no
more often than once every three (3) seconds.
         d.   The images and messages displayed and transitioned must be
instantaneous or fading. The use of animation and scrolling is permitted
provided that change in message or display does not exceed the rate prescribed
in this section. Modes of display which cause the message to flash or blink are
prohibited.
         e.   Dynamic displays must be designed and equipped to freeze the
device in one position if a malfunction occurs. The displays must also be
equipped with a means to immediately discontinue the display if it
malfunctions, and the sign owner must immediately stop the dynamic display when
notified by the City that it is not complying with the standards of this
section.
         f.   Dynamic displays must comply with the brightness standards
contained in this section.
         g.   Dynamic displays existing on May 20, 2013, must comply with the
operational standards listed above. An existing dynamic display that cannot
meet the operational requirements may continue as a nonconforming structure.
      5.   Brightness Standards:
         a.   Standards: All signs must meet the following brightness standards
in addition to those in section
10-5-4 of this chapter:
            (1)   No sign may be brighter than is necessary for clear and
adequate visibility.
            (2)   No sign may be of such intensity or brilliance as to impair
the vision of a motor vehicle driver with average eyesight or to otherwise
interfere with the driver's operation of a motor vehicle.
            (3)   No sign may be of such intensity or brilliance that it
interferes with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, device or
signal.
            (4)   If there is a violation of the brightness standards, the
adjustment must be made within one day of notice of noncompliance by the City.
         b.   Maximum Illumination Levels:
            (1)   Signs using an LED (light emitting diode) light source shall
not exceed a luminance level of five hundred (500) candela per square meter
(nits) between sunset and sunrise, and shall not exceed a luminance level of
five thousand (5,000) candela per square meter between sunrise and sunset.
            (2)   Signs using fluorescent, neon, or incandescent light sources
shall not exceed twelve watts (12 W) per square foot of sign surface area.
            (3)   All signs with illumination shall be equipped with a
mechanism that automatically adjusts the brightness to ambient lighting
conditions (e.g., dusk) to ensure that the sign's intensity does not exceed 0.3
foot-candle above ambient light levels as measured from one hundred feet (100')
from the sign's face.
         c.   LED Accents: LED accent lighting used as part of a sign element
must comply with these brightness standards.
      6.   Changeable Messages: A message that is not permanently attached to
the sign face but that is not a dynamic display may occupy no more than thirty
five percent (35%) of the actual copy and graphic area. The remainder of the
sign must not have the capability to change messages even if not used.
      7.   Selling, Renting Or Leasing: Any private sign that is selling,
renting or leasing a single parcel of real estate is a permitted use as long as
it meets the following conditions: In Nonresidential Districts a total of
thirty two (32) square feet of sign may be placed within the front yard. In
Residential Districts a total of sixteen (16) square feet of sign may be placed
within the front yard. Such signs shall not be less than ten feet (10') from
the right-of-way or property line.
      8.   Interference With Traffic Signal: No sign, temporary or permanent,
by reason of position, shape or color shall interfere in any way with the
proper functioning or purpose of a traffic signal.
      9.   Painted On Wall: Signs shall not be painted directly on the outside
wall of a building.
      10.   Painted On Structures; Paper Signs: Signs shall not be painted on
fences, rocks, or similar structures or features nor shall paper or similar
signs be attached directly to a building wall or utility pole by an adhesive or
similar means.
      11.   Sale Or Lease: Any sign for the purpose of selling or leasing a
residential project, commercial area or an industrial area which consists of
more than one parcel of real estate, one sign not to exceed thirty two (32)
square feet in Nonresidential Districts and sixteen (16) square feet in
Residential Districts shall be allowed.
      12.   Construction Signs: One temporary sign not exceeding a total
surface area of ninety six (96) square feet, not exceeding sixteen feet (16')
in height, and not less than two feet (2') above grade. Such signs shall be set
back at least ten feet (10') from lot lines. Such signs shall be allowed for
three (3) years from the date of original building permit issuance, or until
construction in the development is completed, whichever occurs first.
      13.   Temporary Signs:
         a.   Size; Quantity: There shall be no more than one temporary sign on
any lot, and such sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in size or
ten percent (10%) of the tenant wall area to which the sign is attached for
Commercial Districts and sixteen (16) square feet for Residential Districts.
         b.   Duration: Temporary signs shall require a permit that can only be
renewed three (3) times annually for a total of ninety (90) days. The duration
of a temporary sign permit shall not exceed thirty (30) days except as
described in this section. The Zoning Administrator may document the duration
of any temporary sign and require its removal if it is displayed for more than
its permitted duration unless it meets all standards for permanent signs. For
the purposes of this subsection D13, the Zoning Administrator can ignore
intermittent removal of said temporary signs if the clear intent of the owner
is to display this sign for more than the permitted duration.
         c.   Multi-Tenant Buildings: For multi-tenant buildings with four (4)
or more lease spaces, each tenant may be allowed one such sign for up to thirty
(30) days per calendar year. Any such temporary signage shall be the
responsibility of the property owner or designated manager who shall endorse in
writing, all applications for sign permits. The owner or manager of the sign
and the property owner shall be equally responsible for the proper location,
maintenance, and removal of the sign.
         d.   Temporary Signs: Although this subsection D13 allows only one
temporary sign on any lot, one may apply for one additional temporary sign not
exceeding thirty two (32) square feet which promotes a local fundraiser or
activity benefiting any nonprofit group. To qualify for the application, the
sign must not be displayed until sixty (60) days prior to the first day of the
event; the event must last no longer than one week and the applicant must
promise to remove said sign within one week of the last day of said fundraiser.
In addition, the applicant must provide written evidence that it has been
acknowledged by the Minnesota Secretary of State as a valid nonprofit entity.
If said conditions are met, a sign permit will be granted as long as the
proposed sign's placement or design does not significantly affect traffic flow
or safety as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         e.   Temporary Signs Or Temporary Banners For New And Opening
Establishments: An establishment that is opening to the public for the first
time or which is reopening after having been closed to the public for fifteen
(15) consecutive calendar days or more and which has received all required
permits and approvals, may display a temporary sign or temporary banner in
accordance with the following requirements:
            (1)   One temporary freestanding sign or banner shall be allowed
per lease space. A freestanding temporary sign shall not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet. A temporary banner shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the
tenant wall area to which the signage is attached.
            (2)   Such temporary signs or temporary banners shall be removed no
later than thirty (30) days after placement.
      14.   Election Signs: Election signs are permitted as provided by
Minnesota Statutes section 211B.045. For election signs not specifically
addressed in the statute, such signs must be removed within ten (10) days
following the election related to the sign. All private signs are prohibited
from placement in the public right-of-way or on public property.
      15.   Event Signs: Garage sale signs, family event signs, open house
signs and auction signs are permitted provided such signs are placed no more
than one day prior to and one day after said event. Such signs must conform to
other ordinance standards.
   E.   Signs Permitted In RR, RS, R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3 And PB Districts:
      1.   Two (2) nameplate signs for each dwelling, each not to exceed two
(2) square feet in area per surface, and no sign shall be so constructed as to
have more than two (2) surfaces.
      2.   One nameplate sign for each dwelling group of six (6) or more units.
Such sign not to exceed twelve (12) square feet in area per surface and no sign
shall be so constructed as to have more than two (2) surfaces.
      3.   See subsection 3-9-3B of this Code for regulation of signs of home
occupations.
      4.   Symbols, statues, flags, sculptures and integrated architectural
features on buildings may be illuminated by floodlight provided that the bulb
or light source is shielded so that the bulb or light source is not visible
from a public right- of-way or adjacent property.
      5.   One freestanding sign not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet may
be allowed for apartments in R-2 and R-3 Districts and uses in the PB District.
The sign shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from any property line. No
sign located in Residential Zones shall exceed seven feet (7') in height above
the average grade level. Signs may be illuminated by such lighting but shall be
diffused or indirect and not illuminated beyond any lot line and the source of
the light shall be concealed unless an approval for special lighting is
approved by the City Council.
      6.   A church or public facility within the RS, R-1, R-2, R-3 or PB
Districts shall be permitted one wall sign not to exceed twenty four (24)
square feet or one freestanding monument sign not to exceed fifty (50) square
feet. Freestanding signs shall be subject to the following:
         a.   The sign shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from any
property line.
         b.   The sign shall be a maximum of ten feet (10') in height.
         c.   Changeable message signs are permitted in compliance with
subsection D of this section.
         d.   Dynamic signs are permitted in compliance with subsection D of
this section except that such signs shall also be subject to the following:
            (1)   No dynamic sign shall be located within one hundred feet
(100') of any abutting property which is residentially guided or used. This
requirement shall apply to properties located across public and private rights-
of-way.
            (2)   Any illuminated portion of the sign shall not be illuminated
between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   F.   Signs Permitted In OS, I, CI, C1 And C2 Districts:
      1.   Size: One freestanding pylon, multi-tenant pylon, or monument sign
is allowed per property, unless a conditional use permit is approved to allow
multiple entrance signage pursuant to subsection G2 of this section. The
aggregate square footage of the freestanding business signage and directional
signage per lot shall not exceed the sum of one square foot for each front foot
of lot to a maximum of two hundred (200) square feet except for multi-business
signs approved pursuant to subsection G1 of this section. Any lot upon which
three (3) or more businesses are located may add an additional 0.25 square feet
of sign space for every linear foot along a side lot line to a maximum of two
hundred fifty (250) square feet of sign space to accommodate lots that extend a
farther distance from the front lot line. Front footage is measured as a linear
distance across the front lot line only, not a cumulative road frontage wherein
a roadway is adjacent to two (2) or more property lines.
      2.   Setback: Freestanding signs shall be set back at least ten feet
(10') from any property line.
      3.   Height: No freestanding sign shall extend more than six feet (6') in
height above the principal structure found by adding the wall height to half of
the gabled peak or parapet, not to exceed a maximum of forty feet (40').
      4.   Additional Signage Space: In Commercial Districts, up to ten percent
(10%) of any face of the building and any face of the canopy may be dedicated
to signage in addition to the aggregate maximum for cumulative signage
referenced in subsection F1 of this section. This may include wall signs,
window signs, awning signs and raised lettering.
      5.   Canopy Signs: Overhead canopies may have one sign on each face that
occupies no more than ten percent (10%) of the face. Backlit canopies shall
comply with the brightness and illumination standards set forth in this section
as well as with those in section
10-5-4 of this chapter.
   G.   Signs Requiring Conditional Use Permits:
      1.   Multi-Business Signs:
         a.   Multi-business sign, hereinafter referred to as MBS, shall only
be permitted in OS, C1, C2 and I Zoning Districts and on property that is
guided commercial or industrial in the Comprehensive Plan.
         b.   The intent and purpose of multi-business signs are:
            (1)   To promote commercial depth rather than first tier strip
development along highway corridors.
            (2)   To allow area identification and commercial identification of
business sites in a manner that coordinates traffic safely and effectively.
            (3)   To minimize individual freestanding signage by allowing
clustering of two (2) or more area identification and/or freestanding signs on
a single MBS in exchange for separate freestanding signs on each business site.
            (4)   To cluster MBS signage at major intersections.
            (5)   To require high architectural standards for MBS and to
achieve an "up north" look which would incorporate natural wood, stone, brick
or manufactured like products in the freestanding structure.
            (6)   To require base landscaping and maintenance.
            (7)   To allow area identification and commercial business
identification on approved MBS for developments and/or businesses located
within a one-half (1/2) mile radius of the MBS location, and for only those
developments and/or businesses within the City limits in accordance with an
approved MBS plan.
            (8)   To promote MBS sign usage for sufficient sized areas to
achieve the other purposes listed above.
         c.   No MBS may be erected or maintained until a plan (the "MBS plan"
or "plan"), signed by the owner(s) of all properties on which any area or
business is located whose identification sign is proposed to be included on any
MBS covered by the plan, is filed with, and approved by the City. The MBS plan
shall also specify standards for each MBS included in the plan, including color
scheme, lettering or graphic style, lighting, materials, sign proportions and
landscaping around the base of each MBS. The plan may contain other
restrictions as the owners of the affected properties may reasonably determine,
shall be signed by each of the owners and shall otherwise be in such form as
required by the City. An MBS plan may be amended by filing a new plan with the
City that otherwise conforms with all of the requirements of this Code in
effect at that time. No amendment shall be required for changing the identity
of any area or business whose identification sign is attached to an MBS so long
as all areas or businesses whose identification signs are attached to the MBS
are located on one of the properties covered by the plan under which the MBS
has been approved and the affected MBS otherwise conforms to the MBS plan after
the replacement sign is attached.
         d.   The applicant(s) shall submit diagrams, drawings, pictures and
other information as requested by city staff describing each MBS proposed, the
location of each MBS and the identity of each property proposed to be included
in the MBS plan including the name of the property owner, and the size and
location of each property included in the plan.
         e.   After the city's approval of an MBS plan, no freestanding signs
other than those included in the approved plan shall be kept erected, placed or
maintained on the properties covered by the plan. Any existing freestanding
signs other than the MBS must be removed. The MBS plan may be enforced in the
same way as any other provision of this code. In case of any conflict between
the provisions of any approved MBS plan and this code, the approved MBS plan
shall control.
         f.   The sign must be located on a platted parcel and at least one
business from the parcel where the MBS located must have space on the sign.
         g.   The permissible height of MBS shall be no greater than forty feet
(40') with a minimum clear zone below the sign of ten feet (10') unless
approved as a monument type sign. Total permissible sign face area on MBS shall
be no greater than four hundred (400) square feet per face.
         h.   Setback standards shall be as required for similar freestanding
sign in the zoning district where the MBS is located.
         i.   Each MBS plan shall consist of at least five (5) acres, not
including public rights of way, and at least one of the businesses displayed on
the MBS must be located on same parcel as the MBS. In addition thereto, each
business displayed on the MBS must be within one-half (1/2) mile of the MBS and
be within the city limits of Baxter.
         j.   MBSs may only be located near major intersections of trunk
Highways 371 and 210 as identified on the official city "major intersections"
map. If all standards are met, there could be up to four (4) MBSs per major
intersection, one upon each parcel adjacent to the major intersection. The
planning and zoning commission will determine if the proposed site is in a
major intersection during the conditional use permit process. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, however, no MBS may be erected unless and until the applicant
obtains any required permit from the Minnesota department of transportation nor
shall any MBS be erected which otherwise violates any state law, rule or
regulation.
         k.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, no business
located on property which is covered by any approved MBS plan shall be
permitted to keep erect, place or maintain any freestanding sign on such
property except as referenced in the approved plan. Such business may, however,
erect, place and maintain any other signs (such as building, monument,
directional signs, etc.) otherwise permitted by this code.
         l.   No signage shall be allowed on any MBS other than area
identification and commercial business identification signs for developments
and/or businesses located within the city on property covered by the MBS plan
under which such MBS is approved. No sign advertising any product (rather than
identifying an area or business) shall be allowed on any MBS.
      2.   Multiple Entrances Signage: In OS, I, C1 and C2 zoning districts, or
for churches and/or public facilities in any zoning district, the owner may
choose to divide the allowable sign footage into more than one sign at multiple
entrances or multiple street frontages. Multiple entrance including more than
one pylon, multi-tenant pylon or monument sign may only be approved with a
conditional use permit when the signs are located along separate street
frontages and provided that the signs are at least two hundred feet (200')
apart. The aggregate sign square footage shall not exceed the maximums as set
forth at subsection F of this section for the OS, I, C1 and C2 zone districts
and church/public facilities signs shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet.
   H.   Billboards: Billboards are expressly prohibited in all zoning districts
in the city. Billboards are a principal use of property. All such signs must be
removed as a condition of subdivision, platting, site plan, or PUD approval for
new uses or structures on the parcel where the outdoor advertising sign is
located. No such sign that is nonconforming by reason of height, area, or
location shall be altered or expanded to allow an electronic graphic display,
changeable copy sign, or electronic changeable copy sign.
   I.   Nonconforming Signs: For the purposes of this section, a "nonconforming
use" shall be defined as any permanent sign that was constructed prior to the
effective date hereof. The content or display of such permanent nonconforming
signs may be modified after the adoption of this section as long as the
modification does not intensify any nonconformity based on the standards set
forth above. Temporary signs shall need to comply with new standards.
   J.   Administration And Enforcement:
      1.   Permit Required: No sign shall be erected, altered, improved,
reconstructed, or moved in the city without first securing a permit from the
city, except for those signs which are specifically exempted by these
regulations.
         a.   An application for a permit shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator in accordance with the permit procedures of this code and the
requirements of this section. The application shall include the information
required by the form provided by the city and shall be accompanied by
appropriate documents and plan or plans drawn to scale which legibly and
accurately reflect the following:
            (1)   The location of proposed and existing signs in relation to
lot lines and existing and proposed building based upon a certified survey or
site plan approved by the city which accurately reflects current conditions on
the property.
            (2)   The design, full dimensions, and specifications including the
method of construction, and attachment to a building or placement in the
ground.
            (3)   Stress calculations, where applicable, indicating that the
structure's design for dead load and wind pressure in any direction in the
amount required by this code and regulations.
            (4)   The addition, deletion, alteration, replacement or
improvement of any electrical component.
            (5)   Such other information as the zoning administrator or
building official shall require to show full compliance with this section and
other applicable laws or codes of the city. The zoning administrator may waive
requirements for technical information specified above where such information
is not necessary to the determination of compliance.
         b.   The appropriate permit fee as set forth in this code shall be
required prior to issuance of the permit.
         c.   The zoning administrator shall notify the applicant, in writing,
of an incomplete application within fifteen (15) days of the date of
submission.
         d.   The zoning administrator shall review the application and related
materials and shall determine whether the proposal is in compliance with all
applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances, and applicable performance
standards set forth in this section within sixty (60) days of submission of a
complete application.
         e.   The zoning administrator shall, upon approval, issue a written
permit authorizing the proposed sign and related work; the permit shall, where
applicable, specify the duration of the sign; and the permit shall indicate any
special conditions or requirements related to the construction of the sign.
         f.   Expiration and renewal of permits shall be in accordance with the
provisions of the Minnesota state building code for building permits.
      2.   Exemption From Permits: Any alteration, modification or construction
that is limited to the replacement of a sign panel, replacing individual
letters and logos in the same area or repainting a sign face, and does not
involve changes to the structure, erection or relocation of the sign or changes
to the electrical system is exempt from permit requirements.
      3.   Repairs: Any sign located in the city which may now be or hereafter
become out of order, rotten or unsafe, and every sign which shall hereafter be
erected, altered, resurfaced, reconstructed or moved contrary to the provisions
of this section, shall be removed or otherwise properly secured in accordance
with the terms of this section by the owners thereof or by the owners of the
grounds on which said sign shall stand, upon receipt of proper notice so to do,
given by the issuing authority. No rotten or other unsafe sign shall be
repaired or rebuilt except in accordance with the provisions of this section
and upon a permit issued by the issuing authority.
   K.   Removal: In the event of the failure of the owner or person, company or
corporation having control of any sign, or the owner of the ground on which the
sign is located, to remove or repair said sign within sixty (60) days after the
use is terminated, a notice shall be given to the landowner and the sign may be
removed by the City at the expense of the owner or manager of the sign, or the
owner of the ground upon which the sign stands.
   L.   Violations: Violation of this section is a misdemeanor. Each day that
the violation continues is a separate offense. (Ord. 2013-7, 5-21-2013; amd.
Ord. 2013-22, 11-19-2013; Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; Ord. 2017-007, 8-1-2017;
Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019; Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019)
10-5-2: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Fractions: If, in the application of these provisions, a fractional
number is obtained, one parking space shall be provided for that fraction. Each
space required constitutes a gross area of three hundred (300) square feet.
      2.   Existing Spaces: Existing off street parking spaces upon the
effective date hereof shall not be decreased in number unless said number
exceeds the requirements set forth herein for a similar new use.
      3.   Residential Structures: Under no circumstances shall parking
facilities accessory to residential structures be used for the storage or
overnight parking of commercial vehicles or for the parking of automobiles
belonging to the employees, owners, tenants or customers of nearby business or
manufacturing establishments.
      4.   Storage: Required off street parking space shall not be utilized for
open storage of goods or for the storage of vehicles which are inoperable, for
sale, or for rent. Snow storage on required off street parking spaces is
prohibited.
   B.   Location Requirements: All off street parking facilities required
herein shall be located in respect of the following:
      1.   Spaces accessory to one-family, two-family and multiple-family
dwellings shall be located on the same lot as the principal use served.
      2.   Spaces accessory to businesses and industries shall be located on
the same lot as the principal use served, except as allowed by conditional use
permit.
      3.   No off street open parking area containing more than four (4)
parking spaces shall be located closer than twenty feet (20') from an adjacent
lot zoned or used for residential purposes.
      4.   Parking stalls, driveways and drive aisles for all uses other than
single- and two-family residential uses shall be a minimum of ten feet (10')
from all property lines. Driveways that provide street access to parking spaces
may cross through the front yard setback area.
      5.   Driveways and open parking spaces accessory to single- and two-
family residential structures shall be a minimum of five feet (5') from all
property lines. Garages must comply with the accessory structure setbacks for
the zoning district. Driveways that provide street access to garages and
parking spaces may cross through the front yard setback area.
         a.   In the case of lots with multiple street frontages, multiple curb
cuts shall only be allowed by conditional use permit. Such requests shall be
evaluated to ensure that the curb cut spacing requirements are met, that safe
access is provided and adequate visibility is provided and that all general
conditional use permit standards in chapter 7 of this title are met.
   C.   Design Requirements:
      1.   Parking Stall Dimensions: Each parking stall shall be no less than
ten feet (10') wide and twenty feet (20') in length, exclusive of access drives
or aisles.
         a.   In instances where parking faces a curb and is not back to back
with other parking, then parking stalls may be ten feet (10') wide and eighteen
feet (18') in length to allow a two foot (2') bumper overhang, provided that
the two foot (2') overhang is clear of other structures and landscaping and
does not impact accessible routes. All outside parking spaces shall be clearly
marked.
      2.   Marked Parking Spaces: Parking garages for multi-family developments
and parking ramps for commercial or industrial developments must have parking
spaces clearly marked.
      3.   Compact Car Parking Dimensions: Up to fifteen percent (15%) of the
required parking spaces may be reduced to nine feet (9') wide and eighteen feet
(18') in length. Those spaces must be annotated as such on the site plan, and
the physical spaces clearly marked.
      4.   Aisle Width: Aisle width for two-way traffic shall be a minimum of
twenty four feet (24'). For one-way traffic aisle width shall be a minimum of
sixteen feet (16'). In instances where drive-through stacking and adjacent one-
way bypass lanes are not adjacent to parking, the stacking lane shall be a
minimum of ten feet (10') and the adjacent one-way shall be a minimum of
fourteen feet (14').
      5.   Curb Cuts: Parking areas shall be designed so as to provide adequate
means of access to public streets. Curb cuts for uses other than single-family
dwellings shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in width, unless otherwise
authorized by the City Engineer. Curb cuts for single-family dwellings shall be
a minimum of twelve feet (12') wide and a maximum of twenty four feet (24')
wide.
      6.   Surface: Parking areas, drive aisles and driveways shall be surfaced
with a hard surface material approved by the City which controls dust and
drainage. Class V and other similar aggregates are not classified as an
acceptable material. Plans for surfacing and drainage shall be subject to
approval by the City Engineer. This includes any expansion, surfacing, or
resurfacing of existing lots. The City may make exceptions to surface material
type in lot areas where there is heavy equipment and frequent tractor trailer
traffic. For single-family residential driveways only the forty feet (40') from
the right-of-way need be surfaced with acceptable materials.
      7.   Lighting: All lighting used to illuminate an off street parking area
shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining property and
rights-of-way and must comply with the standards set forth in section
10-5-4 of this chapter.
      8.   Curb; Guard: All open off street parking areas except for single-
family residential uses shall provide a curb or a guard of normal bumper height
to ensure that no portion of a vehicle encroaches into the required setback.
      9.   Access Off Driveways: All off street parking spaces shall have
access off driveways and not directly off the public street.
      10.   Signs: Signs located in any parking area necessary for orderly
operation of traffic movement shall be in addition to accessory signs.
      11.   Exceeding Required Spaces: For commercial, office service, and
industrial properties with required parking of two hundred (200) or more
stalls, parking that exceeds the amount of required spaces by more than ten
percent (10%), shall be required to use pervious pavement for the additional
spaces beyond the ten percent (10%) and associated drive aisles.
         a.   The landowner shall provide the City with proof and records of a
maintenance agreement for those areas.
      12.   Interior Parking Lot Landscaping: Except for perimeter rows of
parking located along property lines and except for parking lots located in
industrial park tier two, as established by ordinance, a landscaped island with
a minimum of one overstory deciduous tree, that meets minimum size criteria
must be installed so that there is not a continuous row of over ten (10)
parking spaces. The landscaped island shall be designed to accept stormwater
runoff from the parking lot unless waived by the City after determining
adequate stormwater mitigation exists. These trees are in addition to the
landscaping requirements found in section
10-4-8 of this title.
         a.   In recognition of the fact that properties which have already
been developed with permanent improvements as of the effective date hereof have
generally less flexibility in meeting these requirements, the City may reduce
or modify these requirements by waiver in the following circumstances:
            (1)   Where addition of the required parking lot islands would
result in less than the minimum number of required parking stalls, the City
Council may waive the required addition of some or all of the parking lot
islands. The reduction in the number of parking stalls shall be the minimum
reduction necessary to provide the parking stalls required by ordinance.
            (2)   Where a building addition is less than five percent (5%) of
the total existing building area or the changes to the vehicular use area are
less than five percent (5%) of the total vehicular use area, staff may waive
the parking island requirement.
            (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall have discretion to approve
island spacing of more than ten (10) but no more than fifteen (15) spaces
between islands in circumstances where the flexibility results in a more
effective configuration for internal access, snowplowing and maintenance.
            (4)   All other modifications shall require approval of a variance.
      13.   Pedestrian Walkway: Parking lots over one hundred (100) spaces will
be required to provide at least one landscaped pedestrian walkway. The walkway
shall be designed to be ADA accessible and shall prevent the bumper of vehicles
damaging landscaping or encroaching into the walkway area. The location of the
walkway must be designed to safely and conveniently move pedestrian traffic to
the principal entrance of the building(s) and be acceptable to the City.
   D.   Access Standards:
      1.   Traffic Control: Traffic generated by any use shall be channelized
and controlled in a manner that will avoid congestion on public streets, safety
hazards, or excessive traffic. The Zoning Administrator may require a traffic
study to be prepared to analyze impacts from any project and require
improvements to address any documented issues.
      2.   Curb Cut Proximity To Intersection: No curb cut or other driveway
access shall be located less than thirty feet (30') from the intersection of
two (2) or more street rights-of-way. This distance shall be measured from the
intersection of lot lines, not curb lines. This distance shall be increased to
one hundred feet (100') on collector and arterial streets and at signalized
intersections to satisfy recognized traffic safety standards.
      3.   Curb Cut Separation: Driveway access curb cut openings on a public
street shall be a minimum of twenty five feet (25') from each other, except as
may be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      4.   Driveway Angle: The driveway angle to the street shall be ninety
degrees (90°) unless otherwise recommended by the City Engineer and approved by
the City Council.
   E.   Minimum Required Spaces:
                                        1 space for each 300 square feet of
Auto sales building, repair shops       gross floor area; service stalls/bays
                                        inside a building may be counted toward
                                        this
                                        5 spaces for each alley, plus
Bowling alley                           additional spaces as may be required
                                        herein for related uses such as a
                                        restaurant
Churches, theaters, auditoriums,        1 space for each 4 seats based on
athletic field, mortuaries, and other   maximum design capacity
places of gathering
Community center, Post Office, YMCA,    10 spaces plus 1 for each 350 square
studios, pool halls, libraries, clubs,  feet of floor area in excess of 2,000
lodges, and museums                     square feet in the principal building
                                        4 spaces plus 1 for each 500 square
Day nurseries, commercial daycare       feet in excess of 1,000 square feet of
                                        floor area in the principal building
                                        1 space per 15 square feet of gross
                                        area excluding kitchen and dining area,
Drive-through food establishment        or based on total seat calculations
                                        like restaurants, or a minimum of 8
                                        spaces where there is no interior
                                        ordering area, whichever is greater
Hospital, sanatorium, convalescent      1.9 spaces per bed plus 1 space per 300
home, rest home, nursing home, or       square feet of gross floor area for any
institution                             outpatient medical facilities
Hotel, motel                            1.40 spaces per unit
Housing with services establishments,
as defined by Minnesota Statutes        0.75 parking space per unit
chapter 144
                                        1 space for each 400 square feet of
Manufacturing, fabrication, or          floor area; this may be reduced if
processing of a product or material,    facility uses automation to 1 space for
assembly                                each 800 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Medical and dental clinic               1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Multispecialty outpatient clinic        1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Office building                         1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Open sales lot                          3 spaces for each 5,000 square feet of
                                        the open sales lot area
Public auction house, golf driving      15 spaces plus 1 for each square foot
range, miniature golf, and similar uses of floor area over 2,000 square feet
                                        2 spaces per dwelling unit. For single-
Residential, single-family dwelling     family dwellings, both spaces shall be
                                        provided by a garage a minimum of 20
                                        feet wide x 22 feet long
                                        2 spaces per dwelling unit. At least 1/
Residential, two-family dwellings or    2 space per unit must be provided by a
townhomes                               garage a minimum of 12 feet wide x 22
                                        feet long per dwelling unit
                                        2 spaces per dwelling unit. At least 1/
                                        2 space per unit shall be a garage or
                                        underground space. Any garage space
                                        provided must be a minimum of 12 feet
Residential, multiple-family dwellings  wide x 22 feet long or 16 feet wide x
                                        22 feet long for handicap. If the space
                                        is underground it must be a minimum of
                                        10 feet wide x 20 feet long or 16 feet
                                        wide x 20 feet long for handicap
                                        0.75 space per dwelling unit. At least
                                        1/2 of the required spaces for the
                                        building shall be a garage or
Residential, senior living              underground space. The City Council has
                                        the discretion to waive the garage
                                        requirement for these buildings or
                                        complexes specifically designed for
                                        senior living
Restaurants, cafes, bars, taverns,      1 space for each 2.5 seats for
nightclubs                              restaurant area; 1 space for each 2.0
                                        seats in bar area
                                        1 space for each 250 square feet of
                                        gross sales floor area (other uses such
                                        as warehouse, office, etc., may be
                                        calculated at the ratios set forth in
                                        this section). Retail buildings that
Retail sales and service establishment  are greater than 50,000 s.f. of gross
and convenience stores                  floor area shall be eligible for a 10%
                                        reduction in the amount of required
                                        parking stalls provided a proof-of-
                                        parking plan is submitted showing how
                                        the reduction in stalls could be
                                        constructed should a parking problem be
                                        documented on site.
                                        1 space for each 7 students based on
Schools, high school and colleges       design capacity, plus 2 additional
                                        spaces for each classroom
                                        1 space for every 900 square feet of
                                        gross showroom floor area (other uses
Showrooms                               such as warehouse, office, etc., shall
                                        be calculated at the ratios set forth
                                        in this section)
                                        100 spaces plus 1 for every 200 square
Skating rinks and dance halls           feet of floor area in the principal
                                        building
Speculative building (use not known)    1 space for every 700 square feet of
for industrial                          floor area
                                        Determined by the Zoning Administrator
                                        on the same basis as required for the
Uses not specifically noted             most similar listed uses. The Zoning
                                        Administrator shall also consult off
                                        street parking reference materials to
                                        determine the required spaces
                                        1 space for each 2,000 square feet of
Warehouse/storage handling of bulk      floor area plus 1 for each company
goods, wholesale                        truck; office space shall conform to
                                        office use requirement
 
   F.   Demonstrated Parking: The City Council may approve a "demonstrated
parking" plan which allows for a portion of the required parking, but
demonstrates that the minimum number of required parking spaces can be
accommodated on the property and meet setback requirements. The plan must
demonstrate that all other applicable ordinances can be met if the full amount
of required parking were to be constructed. The area for future parking must be
maintained as green space (grass, natural plant materials, mulch, or other
appropriate landscape material). Any changes to use and/or building size could
invalidate the approval for "demonstrated parking".
If the City determines that the use of demonstrated parking has become a
problem, the owner of the property shall construct the minimum number of
demonstrated parking spaces to alleviate the parking problem.
   G.   Off Site Parking: Off site parking using private property to meet
parking requirements of this Code may be allowed through a conditional use
permit, provided:
      1.   The off site parking meets all design standards set forth in this
Code.
      2.   Reasonable access from the off site parking facility to the use
served exists, and the off site parking facility is adjacent, either directly
abutting or across the street from the use served except that off street
parking located across the street shall be connected to an existing parking lot
that services a principal use.
      3.   A legal instrument setting forth ownership, maintenance, etc., duly
approved as to form by the City Attorney is executed and recorded by the party
(ies) concerned, and an attested copy filed with the City.
      4.   A landscaped hedge is installed around the perimeter of the parking
lot, and maintained to screen the vehicles in the parking lot.
      5.   Must be paved and meet the on site stormwater retention
requirements.
   H.   Joint Driveway And Joint Parking Aisles: Joint driveways and joint
parking aisles may be allowed to be shared by multiple properties in
Commercial, Office, and Industrial Districts and the ten foot (10') setback
required under subsection B4 of this section may be reduced from each property
line to zero (0), through a conditional use permit (CUP), provided:
      1.   There is a reduction in the overall amount of allowed driveways for
the properties served and the installation of a joint driveway and/or parking
aisle will increase in traffic safety.
      2.   An Access Master Plan for the areas to be served is provided to the
City for review as part of the CUP application.
      3.   A legal instrument setting forth ownership, maintenance, etc., duly
approved as to form by the City Attorney is executed and recorded by the party
(ies) concerned, and an attested copy filed with the City.
      4.   The driveway or parking aisle meets all design standards set forth
in this Code or other design requirements as determined by the City Engineer.
      5.   The design or resulting development shall not cause any conflict
with safe and orderly traffic flow.
      6.   There is no more than one joint driveway or joint parking aisle
serving any two (2) lots unless approved under a planned unit development or
they are found to be existing as determined by the City.
      7.   For a joint parking aisle, there is no other practical space for the
parking aisle as determined by the City and the City determines the joint
parking aisle is appropriate and was not proposed just to avoid compliance with
the ten foot (10') parking setback from the property line.
      8.   Any plantings required under section
10-4-8 of this title for that part of the joint parking aisle be installed and
maintained elsewhere on the lots involved and additional shade trees with a
minimum dbh (diameter at breast height) of 2.5 inches (measured 6 inches
aboveground) be planted to compensate for the loss of green space at a ratio of
one tree per fifty feet (50') of linear distance of the joint aisle.
Furthermore, the ten foot (10') green space area lost as a result of the joint
driveway shall be replaced elsewhere on the property as interior parking lot
islands with shade tree plantings and/or additional setback on the perimeter.
Joint driveways in existence prior to the adoption hereof are classified as
preexisting and will not be required to obtain a conditional use permit,
provided evidence of a previously recorded agreement detailing the joint
driveway is submitted to the City and determined adequate by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-013, 9-19-2023; Ord. 2024-008, 4-16-
2024)
10-5-3: LOADING SPACES:
   A.   Design Requirements:
      1.   If, in the application, a fractional number is obtained, one loading
space shall be provided for that fraction.
      2.   All required loading berths shall be off street and shall be located
on the same lot as the building or use to be served. A loading berth shall not
be located less than one hundred feet (100') from the intersection of two (2)
street rights-of-way in a Residential District. Loading berths shall not occupy
the required front yard space.
      3.   Unless otherwise specified, a required loading berth shall be not
less than fifteen feet (15') in width, fifty feet (50') in length and fourteen
feet (14') in height, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space.
      4.   All loading berths and accessways shall be improved with a durable
material to control the dust and drainage.
      5.   Any space allocated as a loading berth or maneuvering area shall not
be used for the storage of goods, inoperable vehicles or be included as a part
of the space requirements necessary to meet the off street parking area.
   B.   Required Loading Spaces: The City Zoning Administrator, in his or her
sole discretion, shall determine the number of loading spaces, if any, required
for each business or structure. The following criteria shall be used to make
this determination:
      1.   The size of both the building and parking areas.
      2.   The volume of materials delivered to the building.
      3.   The requirement that no delivery trucks shall need to back into or
park in a public street or near a pedestrian walkway or entrance.
      4.   The traffic flow both on site and in respect to adjacent public
streets. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
10-5-4: LIGHTING STANDARDS:
Except for single- and two-family homes located within the residential zoning
districts, all exterior lighting shall comply with the following standards:
   A.   Glare: Glare, whether direct or reflected, as differentiated from
general illumination shall not be visible beyond the limits of the site from
which it originates.
   B.   Flashing, Revolving Lights: No light which is flashing, revolving or
otherwise resembles a traffic control signal shall be allowed in any area where
it could create a hazard for passing vehicular traffic.
   C.   Maximum Intensity Of Lighting And Glare:
      1.   Any light or combination of lights shall not exceed one foot- candle
(meter reading) as measured from the property line or the centerline of a
public street.
      2.   Any lighting shall be arranged so as not to produce glare beyond the
property line. Lenses, deflectors, shields, louvers, or prismatic control
devices shall be used to eliminate glare.
      3.   Fixture type: Cutoff shield that conceals the light source with
nonsag, nonyellowing lens. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
   D.   General Performance Standards:
      1.   Light fixtures and freestanding luminaires shall have a cutoff angle
of less than or equal to ninety degrees (90°).
      2.   The height of a freestanding luminaire shall not exceed thirty feet
(30').
      3.   Freestanding luminaires used for outdoor athletic fields and
recreation areas that exceed the height limitation may be approved by
conditional use permit.
      4.   All canopy lighting for motor fuel stations shall be recessed into
the canopy.
      5.   Accent lighting used to highlight building facades, foliage, or
selected architectural features shall be permitted provided the light source is
shielded and directed at the architectural feature. Accent lighting shall
comply with the following standards:
         a.   Be stationary, single color, nonchanging lights with all sources
of light concealed.
         b.   Permanent exposed continuous strip accent lighting profiling
building or rooflines shall count toward the ten percent (10%) wall and canopy
signage and shall comply with brightness and illumination standards set forth
in this section.
      6.   Lighting for patios and decks attached to residential units are
exempted from the cutoff and shielding requirements provided the light is
intended and installed to light the patio or deck area only.
      7.   Any lighting in existence before the effective date hereof that does
not comply with the requirements shall be considered legally nonconforming.
However, if a property owner proposes to replace fifty percent (50%) or more of
the existing exterior light fixtures or standards in any one year period, the
fixtures or standards must be replaced in conformance with this section.
   E.   Lights Mounted On Poles: Lights mounted on poles shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   Walkway lighting height maximum: Fifteen feet (15') above base.
      2.   Parking lot lighting height maximum: Twenty seven feet (27') above
base.
      3.   Roadway lighting height maximum: Forty feet (40') above base.
      4.   Light pole base height maximum: Three feet (3') above finish grade.
(Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016)
   F.   Modifications: The zoning administrator may administratively approve
modifications to the above lighting standards if it is demonstrated that the
modified standards are LEED compatible. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
10-5-5: DRIVE-THROUGH BUSINESSES:
   A.   Where allowed, drive-through businesses shall comply with the
following:
      1.   Location: The business shall be located on a site with direct access
to a minor arterial street, collector or service road.
      2.   Drive-Through Lanes: Drive-through or drive-in lanes are not allowed
between the building and a lot line that faces a public street. This does not
pertain to driveways.
      3.   Separation From Residential Property: Drive-through facilities,
including, but not limited to, the service windows and stacking spaces, shall
be separated from residentially zoned or guided property by an arterial or
collector street or shall be set back at least two hundred feet (200') from
residentially zoned or guided property.
      4.   Order System Noise: The public address or order system shall not be
audible from any adjacent residentially zoned or guided property.
      5.   Stacking Distance And Spaces: Adequate stacking distance shall be
provided, which does not interfere with other driving areas, parking spaces, or
sidewalks. Stacking spaces shall not interfere with parking spaces or traffic
circulation. The following minimum standards are required:
         a.   Pharmacies: Pharmacies with one drive-through lane shall provide
stacking space for at least five (5) vehicles, and pharmacies with two (2) or
more drive-through lanes shall provide stacking space for at least three (3)
vehicles per lane, as measured from and including the last pick up station,
window, or the like.
         b.   Banks Containing Less Than Six Thousand Square Feet: Banks
containing less than six thousand (6,000) square feet of gross floor area with
one drive-through lane shall provide stacking space for at least six (6)
vehicles, and banks containing less than six thousand (6,000) square feet of
gross floor area with two (2) or more drive-through lanes shall provide
stacking space for at least three (3) vehicles per lane, as measured from and
including the last pick up station, window, or the like.
         c.   All Other Uses: Businesses with one drive-through lane shall
provide stacking space for at least ten (10) vehicles, and businesses with two
(2) or more drive-through lanes shall provide stacking space for at least six
(6) vehicles per lane, as measured from and including the last pick up station,
window, or the like.
      6.   Existing Level Of Service On Streets: The applicant shall
demonstrate that such use will not significantly lower the existing level of
service on streets and intersections. The city may require a traffic study to
be prepared.
      7.   Screening: Screening shall be provided of automobile headlights in
the drive-through lane to adjacent properties. Such screening shall be at least
three feet (3') in height and fully opaque, consisting of a wall, fence, dense
vegetation, berm, or grade change.
      8.   Bypass Lane Required: A bypass lane shall be provided for each
drive-through use, allowing cars to leave the drive-through lane from the
stacking area. (Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016)
10-5-6: MANUFACTURED HOMES AND RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLES:
   A.   Compliance Required:
      1.   Prohibition: The installation, occupying or habitation of
manufactured homes or recreational camping vehicles within the city is
prohibited except as hereinafter provided and then only if in compliance with
zoning and building ordinances now in force and as shall be enacted or amended
hereafter.
      2.   Permit: No permit may be issued as provided under this chapter until
proof of state code compliance is provided to the city building official.
      3.   Parked Or Installed: No manufactured home may be parked or installed
within the city of Baxter without providing proof of compliance with Minnesota
statutes chapter 327 to the city building official.
   B.   Temporary Occupancy:
      1.   Residence: Except as provided by this section, recreational camping
vehicles shall not serve as a dwelling unit. Using a recreational camping
vehicle as a place for guests to stay for a period of less than one week shall
not constitute a dwelling unit.
      2.   Permit Required: Temporary occupancy of a manufactured home or
recreational camping vehicle may be issued by the city building official if the
use is simply during construction of a permanent home. Such permit shall be
issued at the same time as the issuance of the building permit.
      3.   Term: Such temporary occupancy permit shall be for ninety (90) days
and shall be for installation on the same or an adjacent lot to the location of
the permanent home construction.
      4.   Renewal: The permit for temporary occupancy may be renewed for
another sixty (60) days upon approval by the city building official and an
additional sixty (60) days thereafter only by city council.
   C.   Manufactured Home Parks:
      1.   Conditional Use Permit: Manufactured home parks are allowed by
conditional use permit in the R-2 and R-3 zoning districts.
      2.   General Provisions For All Manufactured Home Parks:
         a.   Area: All land area shall be:
            (1)   Adequately drained.
            (2)   Landscaped to control dust.
            (3)   Clean and free from refuse, garbage, rubbish or debris.
         b.   Outdoor Camping: There shall not be outdoor camping anywhere in a
manufactured home park.
         c.   Recreation: All manufactured home parks shall have at least ten
percent (10%) of the land area developed for recreational use (tennis courts,
children's play equipment, swimming pool, golf green, etc.). The recreational
use shall be developed and maintained at the owner/operator's expense.
         d.   Landscaping: All manufactured home parks shall be landscaped as
required by section
10-4-8 of this title.
         e.   Community Building: A manufactured home park shall have an
adequate central community building. Such building must be provided with
restroom facilities, have adequate heating in all areas, and be maintained in a
safe, clean and sanitary condition.
         f.   Emergency Storm Protections: Manufactured home parks established
prior to July 1, 1993, shall comply with emergency storm protections as
required by Minnesota statutes. A new manufactured home park established after
July 1, 1997, shall have storm shelters in compliance with Minnesota statutes.
Additionally, all emergency storm protection measures shall be subject to the
approval of the city.
         g.   Parking:
            (1)   Each manufactured home site shall have off street parking
space for two (2) passenger vehicles.
            (2)   All parking spaces shall be hard surfaced according to
specifications established by the city.
         h.   Internal Roads And Streets:
            (1)   All streets shall be private streets and shall be developed
with a roadbed of not less than twenty eight feet (28') in width and shall meet
city design specifications.
            (2)   The park shall have a street lighting plan approved by the
city.
      3.   Building Standards:
         a.   Lot Setbacks:
            (1)   Individual Manufactured Home Lot Setbacks: In manufactured
home parks created after July 1, 1997, no manufactured home shall be located
closer than ten feet (10') to a side or rear lot line. The front yard setback
shall be at least thirty feet (30') from the street surface. On corner lots,
the side yard setback shall be at least twenty feet (20') from the street
surface. No manufactured home shall be located closer than thirty feet (30')
from the periphery lot line of the manufactured home park.
            (2)   Permitted Encroachments:
               (A)   Attached steps, uncovered stoops, and landings may
encroach up to five feet (5') into a side yard setback, provided that they do
not exceed twenty (20) square feet in area or extend closer than ten feet (10')
to a structure on an adjacent lot.
               (B)   An eave or overhang may encroach up to one foot (1') into
a front, side and rear setback.
         b.   Skirting Required: Manufactured homes must be skirted in such
manner as to correspond to the manufactured home within thirty (30) days of
occupancy.
         c.   Attached Structures: Any attached structures must be built in
compliance with the building code and painted or finished to correspond to the
manufactured homes within thirty (30) days of construction beginning. Such
attached structures must be specified at the time of issuance of the building
permit for manufactured home installation, or if not specified, an additional
building permit must be secured prior to building of such appurtenant
structure.
         d.   Foundation: The manufactured home shall be affixed to a closed
foundation consisting of concrete blocks, concrete or similar materials and the
area between the home and the ground shall be skirted with rock, brick or
concrete. All running gear and towing apparatus shall be removed. Necessary
ventilation and access is allowed.
         e.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings (including garages)
shall be limited to one per manufactured home lot. Maximum allowable floor area
shall not exceed six percent (6%) of the lot size in manufactured home parks
where lot size is delineated by site plan or lot markers.
   D.   Sanitation:
      1.   Permanent Occupancy: In all cases where manufactured homes are to be
used as a dwelling unit the property owner shall install sanitary facilities
approved by the city building official. No privies will be allowed.
      2.   Temporary Occupancy; Transient Parking: In all cases involving
temporary occupancy or transient parking of manufactured homes or recreational
camping vehicles, the property owner must provide sanitary facilities approved
by the city building official. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
10-5-7: MINING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Land Reclamation: Land reclamation shall be permitted only upon
issuance of a conditional use permit. Such permit shall include as a condition
thereof, a finished grade plan which will not adversely affect the adjacent
land, and as conditions thereof shall regulate the type of fill permitted,
program for rodent control, plan for fire control and general maintenance of
the site, controls of vehicular ingress and egress, and/or control of material
disbursed by wind or hauling of material to or from the site.
   B.   Mining: In all districts, mining shall be permitted only upon issuance
of a conditional use permit. Such permit shall include as a condition thereof,
a site plan where the processing is to be done, showing the route of trucks
moving to and from the site in removing processed material from the site, the
condition in which the site shall be left upon completion, and such permit
shall not be granted for a period of longer than twelve (12) months. (Ord.
2014-19, 6-17-2014)
10-5-8: MOTOR FUEL STATIONS:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   For architectural purposes, each side of a motor fuel station shall
be considered as a front face.
      2.   The storage of items for sale outside the principal building shall
be displayed in specially designed containers.
      3.   All trash, waste materials, and obsolete parts shall be stored
within a separate enclosure that is screened from public view.
      4.   All goods for sale, other than those required for the operation and
maintenance of motor vehicles, shall be displayed within the principal
structure.
      5.   No sales of motor vehicles, trailers, or campers shall be permitted.
      6.   Open dead storage of motor vehicles, trailers, or campers shall not
be permitted. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014)
   B.   Site Requirements:
      1.   Fence Required: Wherever a motor fuel station abuts a residential
property, a six foot (6') high wood screening fence with landscaping approved
by the City shall be erected and maintained along the side and rear property
line that abuts the residential property. Application of this provision shall
not require a fence within fifteen feet (15') of any street right-of- way line
or any other line of sight provision.
      2.   Landscaped Yard: A minimum fifteen foot (15') landscaped yard shall
be planted and maintained behind all property lines except at driveway
entrances.
      3.   Surface: The entire motor fuel station, other than that part devoted
to landscaping and structures shall be surfaced with concrete or bituminous
surfacing to control dust and provide adequate drainage.
      4.   Driveways: Driveways shall not exceed forty feet (40') in width. The
number of access points to any street shall be kept to a minimum and subject to
approval by the City Engineer.
      5.   Curb: A six inch (6") B6-12 poured concrete curb or equivalent shall
separate all walks and landscape areas from parking and maneuvering areas.
      6.   Overhead Canopy Height: The total height of any overhead canopy or
weather protection shall not exceed twenty feet (20').
      7.   Overhead Canopy Lighting: Lighting underneath the canopy is allowed,
provided each light fixture is recessed and pointed downward so as to minimize
the source of the light.
      8.   Overhead Canopy Setbacks: The setback of any overhead canopy or
weather protection, freestanding or projecting from the station structure shall
be not less than ten feet (10') from the street right-of-way nor less than
twenty feet (20') from an adjacent property line. (Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016)
   C.   Signs:
      1.   One Sign Per Face: The overhead canopy may have one sign on each
face that occupies no more than ten percent (10%) of the face in compliance
with section
10-5-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-007, 8-1-2017)
10-5-9: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   The location and construction of accessory structures shall be
governed by this section but accessory structures in Commercial, Industrial,
Office Service Districts, or built in conjunction with multiple-family
dwellings in R-2 and R-3 Districts and planned unit developments are also
subject to the architectural regulations set forth in section 10-4-10 of this
title.
      2.   Any accessory building shall be considered part of the principal
building for setback purposes only if it is located less than six feet (6')
from the principal building.
      3.   No accessory structure shall be constructed prior to the
commencement of construction of the principal building, except as allowed by
interim use permit.
      4.   All accessory buildings exceeding two hundred (200) square feet
shall require a building permit and shall meet all City codes for construction
and installation as set forth in title 9 of this Code.
      5.   All accessory buildings two hundred (200) square feet or less shall
require a shed permit and shall meet all City requirements as set forth in this
title.
      6.   Recreation equipment such as play apparatus, swing sets and slides,
sandboxes, tree houses, above or in ground swimming pools, hot tubs,
playhouses, etc., shall comply with the minimum accessory structure setbacks.
      7.   These requirements are applicable in all zoning districts.
   B.   Location:
      1.   No accessory structure or building shall be located within ten feet
(10') of the side or rear lot line.
      2.   No detached accessory structure shall be located forward of the
principal structure except as allowed in subsections B3, B4 and B8 of this
section.
      3.   In the case of the Shore Land Overlay District, the Planning and
Zoning Administrator shall determine the orientation of the principal structure
as to determine where detached accessory structures may be placed. Criteria for
this determination are: the distance from the principal structure to the road
right-of-way and ordinary high water mark, pattern of development of adjacent
properties, screening and other relevant site information.
      4.   Attached garages and detached accessory structures may be located
forward of the principal structure as long as they meet the other setback
requirements of the district.
      5.   Accessory structures one hundred twenty (120) square feet or less
shall not be located less than ten feet (10') from the side or rear lot line,
nor in the front lot area between the principal structure and road right-of-
way. This would include examples such as tree houses, yard equipment buildings,
and wood burning stoves. Exceptions to this standard would be freestanding
decks and gazebos that are one hundred twenty (120) square feet or less.
      6.   Wherever more restrictive standards are found in this title
regarding accessory structures or uses, the more restrictive standard shall
apply.
      7.   No accessory structure shall be permitted on the secondary septic
drainfield site or in a location that will negatively impact the septic system
as a whole as determined by the building official.
      8.   Accessory structures located on through lots may be located between
the rear of the principal building and the public right- of-way.
   C.   Size:
      1.   Structure Height: No accessory structure, whether attached or
detached, shall exceed the height of the principal structure. However, in no
case shall an accessory structure exceed twenty five feet (25') in height in an
R-1 or R-2 District.
      2.   Total Ground Coverage: Total ground coverage of all attached and
unattached accessory buildings shall not exceed one thousand eight hundred
(1,800) square feet.
         a.   Single Accessory Building Coverage: No single accessory structure
shall cover more than one thousand eight (1,008) square feet. If the lot is
thirty thousand (30,000) square feet or more, then up to one thousand one
hundred fifty two (1,152) square feet is allowed. Any detached accessory
building within six feet (6') of another detached accessory building shall be
considered one single accessory building and the total area of those buildings
shall not exceed this maximum.
         b.   Attached Accessory Building Coverage: Attached accessory
buildings can be equal to or less than the ground coverage of the principal
building, but not to exceed one thousand eight hundred (1,800) square feet
total ground coverage. Said accessory building must be physically attached to
the principal structure in compliance with the International Building Code
regulations to be considered attached.
      3.   Larger Accessory Structures In R-2 And R-3 Districts: For apartment
buildings in R-2 and R-3 Districts, an accessory structure may deviate from the
design standard set forth in subsection D of this section and this subsection
provided:
         a.   The accessory building complies with the design standards set
forth in section
10-4-10 of this title with the articulation wall/roof length reduced to fifty
feet (50') and increment length reduced to forty feet (40') for walls along or
adjacent to a public or private right-of-way.
         b.   The accessory structure meets all principal structure setbacks.
         c.   The accessory structure is at least one hundred feet (100') from
any R-1 district property.
         d.   The accessory structure does not exceed the ground coverage of
the principal structure, be greater than twenty five feet (25') in height or be
greater than ten thousand (10,000) square feet unless approved by conditional
use permit.
      4.   Accessory Structures within the PB, Public Benefit District: For
accessory structures located within the PB, Public Benefit district, an
accessory structure may deviate from the area requirements of this subsection
(C).
   D.   Design:
      1.   Three Hundred Square Feet Or More: All accessory buildings covering
three hundred (300) square feet or more shall match the principal structure in
color, materials and construction type. Only the appearance of the exterior
materials of the accessory structure, not the actual composition of the
materials, needs to match the principal structure. The finish/sheen shall match
the home to the maximum extent possible as approved by the Zoning
Administrator. Lots within the R-1 district with principal structures sided
with brick or stucco may use siding materials that are harmonious with the
principal structure only if the design, construction type, and color match the
principal structure. If an exact color match is not possible, the color shall
be as close a match as possible to the principal structure. All accessory
buildings three hundred (300) square feet and larger shall be consistent with
the principal structure in design. Buildings in the RS and RR districts that
are not viewable from adjacent properties and public streets in leaf-off
conditions shall be exempt from these requirements.
      2.   Less Than Three Hundred Square Feet: All accessory buildings
covering less than (300) square feet need only be harmonious in color and
materials with the principal structure.
      3.   Doors: Overhead doors in residential districts (including the RR,
RS, R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3 districts and any planned unit development with a
residential component) shall not exceed nine feet (9') in height.
      4.   Tarp/Polyvinyl Structures Prohibited: Accessory buildings
constructed primarily of canvas, plastic, or other similar nonpermanent
building materials shall be prohibited. All accessory buildings must meet
Minnesota state building code requirements.
      5.   Accessory Structures within the PB, Public Benefit District: For
accessory structures located within the PB, Public Benefit district that are
under 528 sqaure feet, an accessory structure may deviate from the design
requirements of this subsection (D), except that tarp/polyvinyl and the like,
as identified above, shall be prohibited.
   E.   Conditional Uses:
      1.   Large Lots In RR and RS Districts: For sites greater than 2.5 acres
located in RR and RS zoning districts, the size and design standards set forth
in subsections C and D of this section may deviate from the size and design
standards set forth in subsections C and D of this section by conditional use
permit provided the following criteria are met:
         a.   The accessory building shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50')
from both side and rear lot lines.
         b.   The accessory building is located rearward of the front line of
the principal structure.
         c.   The accessory building meets all of conditional use permit
standards in this chapter and chapter 7 of this title.
      2.   Large Lots In R-1, OS, C1, C2 And I Districts: For sites greater
than 2.5 acres located in R-1, OS, C1, C2 and I zoning districts, the size
standards set forth in subsection C of this section may deviate from the size
standards set forth in subsections C of this section by conditional use permit
provided the following criteria are met:
         a.   The accessory building shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50')
from both side and rear lot lines.
         b.   The accessory building is located rearward of the front line of
the principal structure.
         c.   The accessory building meets all of conditional use permit
standards in this chapter and chapter 7 of this title.
         d.   The location and construction of the accessory structure shall
also be subject to the architectural regulations set forth in section
10-4-10 of this title.
   F.   Fallout And Blast Shelters: Fallout and blast shelters are a permitted
accessory use or structure. Shelters may be contained in other structures or
may be constructed separately but shall not be used for purposes prohibited
expressly or by implication in the district. (Ord. 2014-22, 10-21-2014; amd.
Ord. 2016-021, 5-17-2016; Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019; Ord. 2021-010, 7-20-2021;
Ord. 2021-020, 12-21-2021; Ord. 2022-005, 6-21-2022)
10-5-10: ANIMALS:
   A.   Keeping Of Animals: The following animals may be kept in the city:
      1.   Domestic animals are allowed in all zoning districts, as regulated
by chapter 3 of this title.
      2.   In all residential zoning districts except the RR and RS districts,
the raising or keeping of animals of any type for slaughter is prohibited.
      3.   Except as provided in the RR and RS districts, farm animals
(including miniatures) are prohibited in the city. Any pen, pasture, paddock or
building designed to confine a farm animal shall be located a minimum of three
hundred feet (300') from any property line.
      4.   Animals may only be kept for commercial purposes if authorized in
the zoning district where the animals are located.
      5.   Animals may not be kept if they cause a nuisance as defined by this
code or endanger the health or safety of the community and must comply with
subsection
5-4-2 J of this code.
      6.   Except as may be allowable by interim use permit in the RR and RS
districts and in compliance with title 5, chapter 3 of this code commercial
kennels are prohibited in the city.
      7.   Any dog keeping must comply with title 5, chapter 3 of this code.
      8.   Except as may be allowable by interim use permit in the RR and RS
districts commercial stables are prohibited in the city.
      9.   Except as may be allowable by interim use permit in the RR, RS and
R-l districts private stables are prohibited in the city.
      10.   The keeping of wild animals shall be prohibited.
      11.   Chickens
         a.   Chickens Limited. It is unlawful for any person to own, control,
keep, maintain or harbor hen chickens in any residential district and/or
residential use in non-residential districts in the City unless issued a permit
to do so as provided herein and a fee is submitted pursuant to the City's
adopted fee schedule. No permit shall be issued for the keeping or harboring of
more than four (4) hen chickens on any premise in the RR, Rural Residential,
RS, Residential Staging, and R- 1, Single Family Residential Zoning Districts.
The keeping of over four chickens is considered farm animals and are subject to
the requirements of title and requiring approval of an interim use permit in
the RR, Rural Residential and RS, Residential Staging Zoning Districts subject
to the requirements of this title. The keeping of roosters is prohibited.
         b.   Definitions. The term "At Large" shall be intended to mean a
chicken out of its chicken run, off the premises or not under the custody and
control of the owner. The term "Chicken" means a domestic female or hen chicken
kept for its eggs. The term "Chicken Coop" means a structure providing housing
for chickens made of wood or other similar materials that provides shelter from
the elements. The term "Chicken Run" means a fenced outside yard for the
keeping and exercising of chickens. The term "Owner" shall mean the resident,
property owner, custodian, or keeper of any chicken. The term "Premises" means
any platted lot or group of contiguous lots, parcels or tracts of land.
         c.   Permit. No chicken coop and/or chicken run shall be maintained
unless granted a permit by the City. The permit shall be subject to all terms
and conditions of this Section and any additional conditions deemed necessary
by the City to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. The necessary
permit may be obtained from the Community Development Department and shall be
renewed annually. Included with the information required prior to issuance of
the permit must be a scaled diagram that indicates the location of any chicken
coop and run, and the approximate size and distance from adjoining structures
and property lines. The owner must also obtain written approval of the keeping
of chickens from all abutting property owners unless the abutting property is
vacant. Written approval is not required if there is no abutting property. A
permit for the keeping of chickens may be revoked or suspended by the City for
any violation of this Section following written notice and a public hearing.
         d.   Property Regulations.
            (1)   Chickens make only be kept on a single-family residential
property in the RR, RS, and R-l zoning districts.
            (2)   The minimum lot size for keeping chickens is thirty thousand
(30,000) square feet.
            (3)   Chickens and their related coop and run shall not be kept or
maintained upon a vacant lot or anywhere inside a residential structure,
including basements, porches, garages, sheds or similar storage structures.
         e.   Confinement. Every person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains,
or harbors hen chickens must keep them confined on the premises at all times in
a chicken coop or chicken run while in the City. Chickens must be secured in a
chicken coop from sunset to sunrise each day.
         f.   Chicken Coop and Chicken Run Requirements.
            (1)   All chicken coops and runs must be located within a rear
yard. Any coop and run shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from side and
rear property lines and twenty-five (25) feet from any inhabited residential
structures on any adjacent lots. For comer lots, any coop and ran shall be
located at least forty (40) feet from the side lot line adjacent to a public
street and shall not be located between the principal structure and a public
street, whichever is the greater requirement,
            (2)   Any coop and run shall be screened with a solid fence a
minimum of four (4) feet high to screen the coop and run from adjacent
properties and right-of-way. Landscaped buffers may be used in leu of fence
screening requirements only if the landscaped buffer is sufficient to screen
the coop and run from adjacent properties and rights of way during winter/leaf-
off conditions.
            (3)   Any coop must be a minimum of four (4) square feet per
chicken in size, must not exceed ten (10) square feet per chicken in size and
must not exceed eight (8) feet in total height. Attached fenced-in chicken runs
must not exceed twenty (20) square feet per chicken and fencing must not exceed
six feet in total height. Chicken runs may be enclosed with wood and/or welded
wire materials and may allow chickens to contact the ground.
            (4)   Chicken coops must either be:
               (a)   Elevated with a clear open space of at least twenty-four
(24) inches between the ground surface and framing/floor of the coop; or
               (b)   The coop floor, foundation and footings must be
constructed using rodent resistant construction.
         g.   Slaughter and breeding of chickens on any premises within the
City is prohibited.
         h.   Sale of eggs is prohibited.
         i.   Chicken feed must be kept in containers that make the feed
unavailable to rodents, vermin, wild birds and predators or other wild animals.
         j.   Chickens shall, at all times, be provided with access to feed and
clean water, proper shelter and protection from the weather, veterinary care
when needed, and humane care and treatment.
         k.   Chicken manure shall not be placed in yard compost piles.
         l.   All coops, attached runs/enclosures and yards where chickens are
kept or maintained shall be cleaned regularly to keep them reasonably free from
substances, including but not limited to manure, uneaten feed, feathers, and
other such waste that it does not cause the air or environment to become
noxious or offensive or to be in such condition as to promote the breeding of
flies, mosquitoes, or other insects, or to provide habitat, breeding or feeding
place for rodents or other animals, or otherwise be a nuisance.
         m.   Chickens shall be kept and handled in a sanitary manner to
prevent the spread of communicable diseases among birds or to humans.
         n.   Chickens that become ill must immediately receive veterinary
care. Chickens ill with disease must be immediately euthanized by a
veterinarian or immediately removed from the City in a safe manner.
         o.   Conditions and Inspection. No person who owns, controls, keeps,
maintains or harbors hen chickens shall permit the premises where the hen
chickens are kept to be or remain in an unhealthy, unsanitary or noxious
condition or to permit the premises to be in such condition that noxious odors
are earned to adjacent public or private property. Any chicken coop and chicken
run authorized by permit under this Section may be inspected at any reasonable
time by the City. (Ord. 2014-19, 6-17-2014; amd. Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019; Ord.
2020-006, 7-21-2020; Ord. 2022-007, 6-21-2022)
CHAPTER 6
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS
(Rep. by Ord. 2015-06, 3-17-2015)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATION, PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-7-1: Administration
10-7-2: Comprehensive Plan Amendments
10-7-3: Text Amendments And Rezoning
10-7-4: Conditional Use Permit
10-7-5: Interim Uses
10-7-6: Variances
10-7-7: Appeals
10-7-8: Certificate Of Occupancy/Site Improvements/Financial Guarantees
10-7-9: Opt Out Of Minnesota Statutes Section 462.3593
10-7-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Administrative Review: All new construction will require a building
permit subject to the terms of section
10-1-3 of this title.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Established By City Council: The fees for a building permit,
rezoning, variance, amendment, or conditional use permit shall be established
by the city council. The city council may review and revise the fee schedule
periodically.
      2.   Payment Required:
         a.   Building Permit: The building official shall issue the building
permit only after the fee has been paid and a determination has been made that
the building plans, together with the application, comply with the terms of
this title.
         b.   Petition Application: Any person filing a petition for an
amendment to this title, building permit, rezoning, variance, amendment, or
conditional use permit within any use district shall pay the prescribed fees
according to the schedule established by the city council before any work
proposed may commence. The fee is payable at the time of filing a petition and
is not refundable.
      3.   Exemption: Municipal corporations and governmental agencies shall be
exempt from the fee requirements as prescribed by this title.
   C.   Violation; Penalty:
      1.   Misdemeanor: Violation of this title shall be a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not to exceed seven hundred
dollars ($700.00) and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed ninety (90)
days for each offense. Each day that the violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
      2.   Additional Remedies: In the event of a violation or a threatened
violation of this title, the council, in addition to other remedies, may
institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct, or
abate such violations and it is the duty of the attorney to institute such
action.
      3.   Mandamus Proceedings: Any taxpayer may institute mandamus
proceedings in district court to compel specific performance by the proper
official of any duty required by this title. (Ord. 2014-24, 10-21-2014)
10-7-2: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Power To Amend: The city council may adopt amendments to this
comprehensive plan. Comprehensive plan amendments shall only be used as a means
to reflect changes in conditions and/or the goals and policies of the city.
   B.   Comprehensive Plan Amendments: An application for a comprehensive plan
amendment shall be approved or denied pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapter
462.357.
      1.   Filing: A comprehensive plan amendment application shall be filed
with the planning and zoning administrator on an official application form. The
application shall be accompanied by the fee as set forth in this code. The
application shall also be accompanied by detailed written and graphic
materials, the number and size as prescribed by the planning and zoning
administrator, fully describing the proposed amendment. The application shall
be considered as being officially submitted and complete when the applicant has
complied with all the specified submittal requirements, as described in this
section.
      2.   Staff Analysis: Upon receiving a complete application, as determined
by staff review, the planning and zoning administrator shall refer copies of
the comprehensive plan amendment application to the city staff and other
applicable public agencies as needed in order to receive written comments. The
planning and zoning administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff person
to: a) coordinate an analysis of the application, b) prepare technical reports,
and c) assist in preparing a recommendation to the long range planning
commission and city council.
      3.   Public Hearing Notice: Upon completion of staff's analysis of the
application, the planning and zoning administrator, when required, shall set a
public hearing date for an upcoming long range planning commission meeting.
Notice of the hearing, including a description of the request and the legal
description of the property, shall be published in the city's official
newspaper, "The Brainerd Daily Dispatch", at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing. Written notification of the hearing shall also be mailed to all
property owners located within five hundred feet (500') of the site at least
ten (10) days prior to the hearing. Failure of a property owner to receive
mailed notice or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      4.   Planning Commission Consideration: The planning commission shall
consider the application, as follows:
         a.   Planning Commission shall review the request and conduct the
official public hearing. At the public hearing, all persons interested in the
proposed amendment shall be heard.
         b.   The applicant or representatives thereof may appear before the
planning commission to present information and answer questions concerning the
proposal.
         c.   Planning Commission and staff shall have the authority to request
additional information from the applicant concerning the proposal, as deemed
necessary to formulate a recommendation on the proposal.
         d.   The city should consider the following issues when reviewing a
comprehensive plan amendment request:
            (1)   The extent to which the location criteria of applicable
existing or proposed land use plan classifications are satisfied.
            (2)   Evidence submitted by the applicant demonstrating the reason
(s) that the plan should be changed, including, but not limited to, whether new
information has become available since the comprehensive plan was adopted that
supports reexamination of the plan, or that existing or proposed development
offers new opportunities or constraints that were not previously considered by
the plan.
            (3)   Whether or not the change is needed to allow reasonable
development of the site.
            (4)   The relationship of the proposed amendment to the supply and
demand for particular land uses within the city and the immediate vicinity of
the site.
            (5)   A demonstration by the applicant that the proposed amendment
has merit beyond the interests of the proponent.
            (6)   The possible impacts of the amendment on all specific
elements of the comprehensive plan as may be applicable.
            (7)   Consideration of the impact of the proposed amendment upon
current and future special assessments and utility area charges, future
property tax assessments or other fiscal impacts upon the city.
      5.   City Council Consideration: The city council shall consider a
comprehensive plan application, as follows:
         a.   Upon receiving the reports and recommendations of the long range
planning commission and staff, the city administrator shall schedule the
application for city council consideration. The council shall have the option
of receiving additional testimony on the matter if they so choose.
         b.   The council shall either approve or deny the application. Failure
of the council to act within one hundred twenty (120) days of submission of the
application is deemed approval of such application, unless the applicant agrees
to an extension.
         c.   Approval of a comprehensive plan amendment by the city council
shall require passage by a four-fifths (4/5) vote of all its members. The
council may require plan revisions and may impose conditions upon approval, as
deemed necessary to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
city.
      6.   Effect Of Denial: If a comprehensive plan application is denied by
the city council, the planning commission or city council shall not consider a
similar application for the same amendment for at least six (6) months from the
date of its denial. (Ord. 2014-24, 10-21-2014; amd. Ord. 2024-012, 7-16-2024)
10-7-3: TEXT AMENDMENTS AND REZONING:
   A.   Text Amendment And Rezoning Procedure: An application for a text
amendment or rezoning shall be approved or denied pursuant to Minnesota
statutes chapter 462.357.
      1.   Initiation Of Proceedings: Proceedings for amending this title shall
be initiated by one of the following methods:
         a.   By petition of an owner of property to rezone their property.
         b.   By recommendation of the planning and zoning commission.
         c.   By action of the city council.
      2.   Filing: A text amendment and rezoning application shall be filed
with the planning and zoning administrator on an official application form. The
application shall be accompanied by the fee as set forth in this code. The
application shall also be accompanied by detailed written and graphic
materials, the number and size as prescribed by the planning and zoning
administrator, fully describing the proposed amendment. The application shall
be considered as being officially submitted and complete when the applicant has
complied with all the specified submittal requirements, as described in this
section.
      3.   Staff Analysis: Upon receiving a complete application, as determined
by staff review, the planning and zoning administrator shall refer copies of
the text amendment and rezoning application to the city staff and other
applicable public agencies as needed in order to receive written comments. The
planning and zoning administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff person
to: a) coordinate an analysis of the application, b) prepare technical reports,
and c) assist in preparing a recommendation to the planning and zoning
commission and city council.
      4.   Public Hearing Notice: Upon completion of staff's analysis of the
application, the planning and zoning administrator, when required, shall set a
public hearing date for an upcoming planning and zoning commission meeting.
Notice of the hearing, including a description of the request and the legal
description of the property, shall be published in the city's official
newspaper, "The Brainerd Daily Dispatch", at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing. Written notification of the hearing shall also be mailed to all
property owners located within five hundred feet (500') of the site at least
ten (10) days prior to the hearing. Failure of a property owner to receive
mailed notice or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      5.   Planning And Zoning Commission Consideration: The planning and
zoning commission shall consider the application, as follows:
         a.   Review: The planning and zoning commission shall review the
request and conduct the official public hearing. At the public hearing, all
persons interested in the proposed amendment shall be heard.
         b.   Information Presented: The applicant or representatives thereof
may appear before the planning and zoning commission to present information and
answer questions concerning the proposal.
         c.   Additional Information: The planning and zoning commission and
staff shall have the authority to request additional information from the
applicant concerning the proposal, as deemed necessary to formulate a
recommendation on the proposal.
         d.   Evaluation Criteria: The planning and zoning commission shall
consider possible adverse effects of the proposed amendment. Its judgment shall
be based upon, but not limited to, the following factors:
            (1)   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the
specific policies and provisions of and has been found to be consistent with
the city comprehensive plan.
            (2)   The proposed action meets the purpose and intent of this
title or, in the case of a map amendment, it meets the purpose and intent of
the individual district.
            (3)   There is adequate infrastructure available to serve the
proposed action.
            (4)   There is an adequate buffer or transition provided between
potentially incompatible districts.
      6.   City Council Consideration: The city council shall consider a text
amendment and rezoning application, as follows:
         a.   Upon receiving the reports and recommendations of the planning
and zoning commission and staff, the city administrator shall schedule the
application for city council consideration. The council shall have the option
of receiving additional testimony on the matter if they so choose.
         b.   The council shall either approve or deny the application. Failure
of the council to act within one hundred twenty (120) days of submission of the
application is deemed approval of such application, unless the applicant agrees
to an extension.
         c.   Approval of a rezoning by the city council shall require passage
by a majority vote of all its members.
      7.   Effect Of Denial: If a text amendment or rezoning application is
denied by the city council, the planning and zoning commission or city council
shall not consider a similar application for at least six (6) months from the
date of its denial. (Ord. 2014-24, 10-21-2014)
10-7-4: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Power To Issue: Conditional use permits may be issued for uses
indicated within this title where such permits are required or permitted by the
provisions of this title.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit Procedure: An application for a conditional use
permit shall be approved or denied pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapter
462.357.
      1.   Filing: A conditional use permit application shall be filed with the
planning and zoning administrator on an official application form. The
application shall be accompanied by the fee as set forth in this code. The
application shall also be accompanied by detailed written and graphic
materials, the number and size as prescribed by the planning and zoning
administrator, fully describing the proposed project. The application shall be
considered as being officially submitted and complete when the applicant has
complied with all the specified submittal requirements, as described in this
section.
      2.   Staff Analysis: Upon receiving a complete application, as determined
by staff review, the planning and zoning administrator shall refer copies of
the conditional use permit application to the city staff and other applicable
public agencies as needed in order to receive written comments. The planning
and zoning administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff person to: a)
coordinate an analysis of the application, b) prepare technical reports, and c)
assist in preparing a recommendation to the planning and zoning commission and
city council.
      3.   Public Hearing Notice: Upon completion of staff's analysis of the
application, the planning and zoning administrator, when required, shall set a
public hearing date for an upcoming planning and zoning commission meeting.
Notice of the hearing, including a description of the request and the legal
description of the property, shall be published in the city's official
newspaper, "The Brainerd Daily Dispatch", at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing. Written notification of the hearing shall also be mailed to all
property owners located within five hundred feet (500') of the site at least
ten (10) days prior to the hearing. Failure of a property owner to receive
mailed notice or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      4.   Planning And Zoning Commission Consideration: The planning and
zoning commission shall consider the application, as follows:
         a.   The planning and zoning commission shall review the request and
conduct the official public hearing. At the public hearing, all persons
interested in the proposed project shall be heard.
         b.   The applicant or representatives thereof may appear before the
planning and zoning commission to present information and answer questions
concerning the proposal.
         c.   The planning and zoning commission and staff shall have the
authority to request additional information from the applicant concerning the
proposal, as deemed necessary to formulate a recommendation on the proposal.
         d.   The planning and zoning commission shall recommend approval of
the application if it in all ways conforms to the city's comprehensive plan,
zoning ordinance, this chapter and all chapters of this code. The commission
shall also consider the following in making findings and recommendation to the
city council:
            (1)   Excessive Burden: The use shall not create an excessive
burden on existing parks, schools, streets and other public facilities and
utilities which serve or are proposed to serve the area.
            (2)   Compatibility: The use shall be compatible with adjacent land
uses so that existing uses will not be depreciated in value and there will be
no deterrence to development of vacant land.
            (3)   Appearance: The use shall have an appearance that will not
have an adverse effect upon adjacent properties.
            (4)   Overall Needs: The use, in the opinion of the planning and
zoning commission shall be reasonably related to the overall needs of the city
and to the existing land use.
            (5)   Consistent With Purpose: The use shall be consistent with the
purposes of this title and purposes of the zoning district in which the
applicant intends to locate the proposed use.
            (6)   Comprehensive Plan: The use shall not be in conflict with the
comprehensive plan of the city.
            (7)   Traffic: The use will not cause traffic hazard or congestion.
            (8)   Facilities: The use shall have adequate utilities, access
roads, drainage and necessary facilities.
      5.   City Council Consideration: The city council shall consider a
conditional use permit application, as follows:
         a.   Upon receiving the reports and recommendations of the planning
and zoning commission and staff, the city administrator shall schedule the
application for city council consideration. The council shall have the option
of receiving additional testimony on the matter if they so choose.
         b.   The council shall either approve or deny the application. Failure
of the council to act within one hundred twenty (120) days of submission of the
application is deemed approval of such application, unless the applicant agrees
to an extension.
         c.   Approval of a conditional use permit by the city council shall
require passage by a majority vote of all its members. The council may require
plan revisions and may impose conditions upon approval, as deemed necessary to
protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the city.
      6.   Effect Of Denial: If a conditional use permit application is denied
by the city council, the planning and zoning commission or city council shall
not consider a similar application for at least six (6) months from the date of
its denial.
      7.   Expiration Of Conditional Use Approval: Unless the city council
specifically approves a different time period, the approval of a conditional
use permit shall expire one year from the date it was approved, unless the
applicant has commenced the authorized use; or, unless before expiration of the
one year period, the applicant submits a written request for an extension
thereof. Such request for an extension shall include the following: a) an
explanation for why the authorized use has not commenced, b) what, if any, good
faith efforts have been made to commence the authorized use, c) the anticipated
commencement date for the authorized use, and d) the signature of the applicant
and property owner. The planning and zoning administrator may approve up to two
(2) such extensions of not more than one additional year per extension. Prior
to granting any extensions, the approval shall be reviewed to ensure compliance
with any recent code or comprehensive plan updates.
      8.   Revocation Of A Conditional Use Permit:
         a.   Justification: The planning and zoning commission may recommend,
and the city council may direct, the revocation of any conditional use permit.
A conditional use permit will be revoked upon determination that the authorized
conditional use is not in conformance with:
            (1)   The conditions of the permit.
            (2)   The intent of this title.
            (3)   City codes.
            (4)   Other applicable regulations.
         b.   Process: The city council or planning and zoning commission shall
initiate an application and the planning and zoning administrator shall notify
the responsible person to whom the permit was issued, that they have an
opportunity to show cause why the permit should not be revoked. The application
shall be processed and considered pursuant to this subsection B. The planning
and zoning administrator shall provide the responsible person to whom the
permit was issued a copy of the proceedings and findings of the planning and
zoning commission and city council.
   C.   Performance Agreement: If the scope of development, or potential hazard
of the use proposed in the conditional use permit application warrants, the
city council may require surety to be posted with the city as a condition for
permit issuance. The type of surety and terms for performance and release shall
be outlined in an agreement between the permit applicant and city. This
agreement shall be approved by the city council.
   D.   Information Requirement: The information required for all conditional
use applications generally consists of the following items, and shall be
submitted unless otherwise specified by the planning and zoning administrator:
      1.   Development Plan: A general development plan for the property
indicating topography, location of existing and proposed buildings/structures,
proposed streets and driveways, landscaping and drainage.
         a.   Name and address of developer/owner.
         b.   Name and address of architect/designer.
         c.   Date of plan preparation.
         d.   Dates and description of all revisions.
         e.   Name of project or development.
         f.   Scale of plan (engineering scale only, at 1 inch equals 50 feet
or less).
         g.   North point indication.
         h.   Certified survey by a registered land surveyor.
         i.   Lot dimension and area.
         j.   Required and proposed setbacks.
         k.   Location, setback and dimension of all buildings on the lot
including both existing and proposed structures.
         l.   Contours, streets, utilities, and structures located within one
hundred feet (100') of the exterior boundaries of the property in question.
         m.   Location, number, and dimensions of existing and proposed parking
spaces.
         n.   Location, number, and dimensions of existing and proposed loading
spaces.
         o.   Curb cuts, driveways.
         p.   Vehicular circulation.
         q.   Sidewalks, walkways.
         r.   Lighting plan in conformance with section
10-5-4 of this title.
         s.   Location of recreational and service areas.
         t.   Location of rooftop equipment and proposed screening.
         u.   Provisions for storage and disposal of waste, garbage, and
recyclables.
         v.   Location, sizing, and type of water and sewer system mains and
proposed service connections.
      2.   Grading/Stormwater Drainage Plan:
         a.   Name and address of developer/owner.
         b.   Name and address of architect/designer.
         c.   Date of plan preparation.
         d.   Dates and description of all revisions.
         e.   Name of project or development.
         f.   Scale of plan (engineering scale only, at 1 inch equals 50 feet
or less).
         g.   North point indication.
         h.   Existing contours at two foot (2') intervals.
         i.   Proposed grade elevations, two foot (2') maximum intervals.
         j.   Drainage plan including configuration of drainage areas and
calculations.
         k.   Storm sewer, catch basins, invert elevations, type of castings,
and type of materials.
         l.   Spot elevations.
         m.   Proposed driveway grades.
         n.   Surface water ponding and treatment areas.
         o.   Erosion control measures.
      3.   Landscape Plan:
         a.   Planting schedule (table) containing:
            (1)   Symbols.
            (2)   Quantities.
            (3)   Common names.
            (4)   Botanical names.
            (5)   Sizes of plant material.
            (6)   Root specification (bare root, balled and burlapped, potted,
etc.).
            (7)   Special planting instructions.
         b.   Planting detail (showing all species to scale at normal mature
crown diameter or spread for local hardiness zone).
         c.   Typical sections in detail of fences, tie walls, planter boxes,
tot lots, picnic areas, berms and the like.
         d.   Typical sections of landscape islands and planter beds with
identification of materials used.
         e.   Details of planting beds and foundation plantings.
         f.   Note indicating how disturbed soil areas will be restored through
the use of sodding, seeding, or other techniques.
         g.   Delineation of both sodded and seeded areas with respective areas
in square feet.
         h.   Coverage plan for underground irrigation system, if any.
         i.   Where landscape or manmade materials are used to provide
screening from adjacent and neighboring properties, a cross through section
shall be provided showing the perspective of the site from the neighboring
property at the property line elevation.
         j.   Other existing or proposed conditions which could be expected to
affect landscaping.
      4.   Architectural Plans: Architectural plans for buildings indicating
elevations, entrances, heights, floor plan and materials to be used on the
exterior.
         a.   Legal description of property under consideration.
         b.   Proof of ownership of the land for which a site plan approval has
been requested.
         c.   Architectural elevations of all principal and accessory buildings
(type, color, and materials used in all external surfaces).
         d.   "Typical" floor plan and "typical" room plan.
         e.   Fire protection plan.
         f.   Type, location and size (area and height) of all signs to be
erected upon the property in question.
         g.   Sound source control plan.
   E.   Minor Plan Amendment: Plan amendments may be approved by the planning
and zoning administrator, provided that the changes do not involve the
following:
      1.   Increase or alteration in floor area of structures or number of
dwelling units of more than ten percent (10%).
      2.   Changes involving ten percent (10%) or more of the site area.
      3.   Alteration of any condition attached to, or modification to, the
final development plan made by the city council.
   F.   Major Amendment: Any amendment not eligible for a minor amendment shall
be considered a major amendment. The same review procedure shall be followed
for a major amendment of a CUP as required in section
10-4-7 of the City Code. (Ord. 2014-24, 10-21-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-013, 9-19-
2023)
10-7-5: INTERIM USES:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: An interim use permit is intended to serve those
uses that are specific to a particular property or that may only be reasonable
for a limited duration due to the type of activity or the changing character of
the neighborhood.
   B.   Power To Issue: The city council, after a recommendation from the
planning and zoning commission, may grant an interim use permit if the use
conforms to all applicable zoning ordinances, the date or event that will
terminate the use can be identified with certainty and the applicant agrees in
writing to any conditions that the city deems appropriate regarding the use and
its termination.
   C.   Procedures And Information Requirements: Interim use permits shall be
processed according to the standards and procedures for a conditional use
permit as established by section
10-7-4 of this chapter.
   D.   Evaluation Criteria: An interim use shall comply with the following:
      1.   Meet the standards of a conditional use permit set forth in section
10-7-4 of this chapter.
      2.   The use is allowed as an interim use in the respective zoning
district.
      3.   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified with
certainty.
      4.   The use will not impose additional unreasonable costs on the public.
      5.   The user agrees to any conditions that the city council deems
appropriate for permission of the use.
   E.   Termination: An interim use will be terminated by:
      1.   The date stated in the permit.
      2.   Upon violation of the conditions under which the permit was issued.
      3.   Upon change in the city's zoning regulations which renders the use
nonconforming.
      4.   The redevelopment of the use and property upon which it is located,
to a permitted or conditional use as allowed within the respective zoning
district. (Ord. 2014-24, 10-21-2014)
10-7-6: VARIANCES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide for deviations from
the requirements of this title, including restrictions placed on
nonconformities.
   B.   Variance Procedure: An application for a variance shall be approved or
denied pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapter 462.357.
      1.   Filing: A variance application shall be filed with the planning and
zoning administrator on an official application form. The application shall be
accompanied by the fee as set forth in this code. The application shall also be
accompanied by detailed written and graphic materials, the number and size as
prescribed by the planning and zoning administrator, fully describing the
proposed project. The application shall be considered as being officially
submitted and complete when the applicant has complied with all the specified
submittal requirements, as described in this section.
      2.   Staff Analysis: Upon receiving a complete application, as determined
by staff review, the planning and zoning administrator shall refer copies of
the variance application to the city staff and other applicable public agencies
as needed in order to receive written comments. The planning and zoning
administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff person to: a) coordinate an
analysis of the application, b) prepare technical reports, and c) assist in
preparing a recommendation to the planning and zoning commission and city
council.
      3.   Public Hearing Notice: Upon completion of staff's analysis of the
application, the planning and zoning administrator, when required, shall set a
public hearing date for an upcoming planning and zoning commission meeting.
Notice of the hearing, including a description of the request and the legal
description of the property, shall be published in the city's official
newspaper, "The Brainerd Daily Dispatch", at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing. Written notification of the hearing shall also be mailed to all
property owners located within five hundred feet (500') of the site at least
ten (10) days prior to the hearing. Failure of a property owner to receive
mailed notice or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      4.   Planning And Zoning Commission Consideration: The planning and
zoning commission shall consider the application, as follows:
         a.   The planning and zoning commission shall review the request and
conduct the official public hearing. At the public hearing, all persons
interested in the proposed project shall be heard.
         b.   The applicant or representatives thereof may appear before the
planning and zoning commission to present information and answer questions
concerning the proposal.
         c.   The planning and zoning commission and staff shall have the
authority to request additional information from the applicant concerning the
proposal, as deemed necessary to formulate a recommendation on the proposal.
         d.   The planning and zoning commission shall recommend approval of
the application if it in all ways conforms to the city's comprehensive plan,
zoning ordinance, this chapter and all chapters of this code. The commission
shall also consider the following in making findings and recommendation to the
city council:
            (1)   The variance, and its resulting construction or project,
would be in harmony with the general purposes and intent of this chapter, and
would be consistent with the comprehensive plan.
            (2)   The variance applicant has satisfactorily established that
there are practical difficulties in complying with this chapter. The applicant
must demonstrate that the following criteria have been met:
               (A)   The applicant proposes to use the property in a reasonable
manner not permitted by this chapter;
               (B)   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique
to the property that were not created by the landowner; and
               (C)   The variance, if granted, would not alter the essential
character of the locality.
            (3)   The variance request is not based exclusively upon economic
considerations.
            (4)   The variance, and its resulting construction or project,
would not be detrimental to the public welfare, nor would it be injurious to
other land or improvements in the neighborhood.
            (5)   The variance, and its resulting construction or project,
would not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent properties,
nor would it substantially increase traffic congestion in public streets,
increase the danger of fire, endanger the public safety, or substantially
diminish property values within the neighborhood.
            (6)   The variance requested is the minimum action required to
address or alleviate the practical difficulties.
      5.   City Council Consideration: The city council shall consider a
variance application, as follows:
         a.   Upon receiving the reports and recommendations of the planning
and zoning commission and staff, the city administrator shall schedule the
application for city council consideration. The council shall have the option
of receiving additional testimony on the matter if they so choose.
         b.   The council shall either approve or deny the application. Failure
of the council to act within one hundred twenty (120) days of submission of the
variance is deemed approval of such variance, unless the applicant agrees to an
extension.
         c.   Approval of a variance by the city council shall require passage
by a majority vote of all its members. The council may require plan revisions
and may impose conditions upon approval, as deemed necessary to protect the
health, safety, and general welfare of the city.
      6.   Effect Of Denial: If an application is denied by the city council,
the planning and zoning commission or city council shall not consider a similar
application for at least six (6) months from the date of its denial.
      7.   Expiration: Unless the Council specifically approves a different
time period, the approval of a variance shall expire one year from the date it
was approved, unless the applicant has commenced the authorized improvement or
use; or, unless before expiration of the one year period, the applicant submits
a written request for an extension thereof. Such request for an extension shall
include the following: a) an explanation for why the variance has not been
used, b) what, if any, good faith efforts have been made to use the variance,
c) the anticipated completion date, and d) the signature of the applicant and
property owner. The Planning and Zoning Administrator may approve up to two (2)
such extensions of not more than one additional year per extension. Prior to
granting any extensions, the approval shall be reviewed to ensure compliance
with any recent Code or Comprehensive Plan updates.
      8.   Violation: A violation of any condition set forth in granting a
variance shall be a violation of this title and automatically terminates the
variance.
   C.   Information Requirement: An application for a variance shall be
accompanied by documentation as required for a conditional use permit
application under section
10-7-4 of this chapter, unless otherwise specified by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator. (Ord. 2014-24, 10-21-2014)
10-7-7: APPEALS:
   A.   Board Designation: The City Council shall serve as the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals.
   B.   Applicability: An appeal shall only be applicable to an interpretation
of legislative intent of provisions of this chapter. Opinions and evaluations
as they pertain to the impact or result of a request are not subject to the
appeal procedure.
   C.   Filing: An appeal from the ruling of an Administrative Officer of the
City shall be filed by the property owner or their agent with the Planning and
Zoning Administrator within thirty (30) days after the making of the order
being appealed.
   D.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings and the
furtherance of the action being appealed unless it is certified to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals, after the notice of appeal is filed, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate a stay would cause imminent peril to life and
property. In such case, the proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order which may be granted by a court of record on application, and
upon subsequent notice to the City.
   E.   Procedure: The procedure for making such an appeal shall be as follows:
      1.   The property owner or their agent shall file with the Planning and
Zoning Administrator a notice of appeal stating the specific grounds upon which
the appeal is made.
      2.   The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall instruct the appropriate
staff persons to prepare technical reports when appropriate and shall provide
general assistance in preparing a recommendation on the action to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals.
      3.   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall make its decision by
resolution within sixty (60) days from the date on which a completed
application is filed.
      4.   The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall serve a copy of the
final order of the Board upon the petitioner by mail.
   F.   Appeals From The Board Of Adjustment And Appeals: Any person or
persons, any private or public board, or taxpayer of the City aggrieved by any
decision of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall have the right to seek
review of the decision with a court of record in the manner provided by the
laws of the State of Minnesota, and particularly Minnesota Statutes chapter
462, as such statutes may be from time to time amended, supplemented or
replaced. (Ord. 2014-24, 10-21-2014)
10-7-8: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY/SITE IMPROVEMENTS/ FINANCIAL GUARANTEES:
   A.   Certificate Required:
      1.   A certificate of occupancy shall be obtained before:
         a.   Any vacant land is hereafter occupied or used except for
agricultural purposes other than intensive livestock or poultry farming.
         b.   Any building hereafter erected or structurally altered is
occupied or used.
         c.   The use of any such building is altered.
      2.   A certificate of occupancy shall not be required for anyone who has
occupied their home (meaning that this exception only applies to personal
residences) prior to January 1, 2001.
      3.   It shall be the duty of the person who applied for a building permit
on any said building to request all necessary inspections so that a certificate
of occupancy may be issued.
   B.   Application; Issuance: Application for a certificate of occupancy for a
new building or for an existing building which has been altered shall be made
to the building official as part of the application for construction or
alteration of such building. The certificate shall be issued within ten (10)
days after the erection or alteration of such building or part thereof has been
completed in conformity with the provisions of this title.
   C.   Temporary Certificate: Pending the issuance of such a certificate, the
building official may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy for a period
of not exceeding six (6) months during the completion of the erection or
alteration of such building. The temporary certificate shall not be construed
as in any way altering the respective rights, duties or obligations of the
owners or of the City relating to the use or occupancy of the premises or any
other matter except under such restrictions and provisions as will adequately
ensure the safety of the occupants.
      1.   Site Improvement Agreement And Financial Guarantee: Following the
approval of a building permit and before the issuance of a temporary
certificate, the applicant, as may be applicable, shall guarantee to the City
the completion of all remaining uncompleted exterior amenities as required by
this title and shown on the approved building permit plans. This guarantee
shall be made by means of a site improvement agreement and a financial
guarantee as provided below:
         a.   The applicant shall execute the site improvement agreement on
forms provided by the City. The agreement shall be approved as to form and
content by the City Attorney and shall define the required remaining work and
reflect the terms required to guarantee the performance of the work by the
applicant. The Zoning Administrator shall administer the execution of
agreements administratively.
         b.   The required work includes, but is not limited to, private
exterior amenities such as landscaping, ground cover, screening, fences,
retaining walls, private driveways or other surfacing, parking areas, curbs,
sidewalks, grading, drainage systems, water quality ponds, utilities, erosion
control, and other similar facilities.
         c.   A financial guarantee shall be submitted with the executed site
improvement agreement as provided herein:
            (1)   The financial guarantee submitted to the City shall be in the
form of a cash escrow or other security as deemed acceptable by the City.
            (2)   The amount of the financial guarantee shall be established by
the Zoning Administrator based upon an itemized estimate of the cost of all
required work or shall meet the minimum amounts established in the City’s
adopted fee schedule. The financial guarantee shall be in the amount of one
hundred percent (100%) of the approved estimated cost. The applicant shall be
responsible to pay any cash fees to cover administration of the agreement as
established in the City’s adopted fee schedule.
         d.   The time allowed for the completion of the required improvements
shall be set out in the site improvement agreement and shall not exceed one
year to complete the work. Any agreements established in the fall of a given
year due to the non-growing season shall complete all improvements by June 1 of
the following year. If the improvements are not completed by the time set out
in the site improvement agreement or by June 1 of the following year for non-
growing season agreements, the financial guarantee may be forfeited. The City
may then abate the violation and assess the cost to the property with the
addition of any administrative fees. The City may grant up to a sixty (60) day
extension after a written request of the landowner.
         e.   The applicant shall notify the City in writing when all or a
portion of the required improvements have been completed in accordance with the
approved plan and may be inspected. Upon receipt of such notice, the Zoning
Administrator shall be responsible for the inspection of the improvements to
determine if the performance of the work is acceptable based on the standards
outlined in this title and based on the improvements outlined in the approved
building permit plans. Any required work failing to meet such standards shall
not be deemed to be complete and the applicant shall be notified in writing as
to required corrections. Upon determination that the work has been completed,
the City shall arrange for the financial guarantee to be released by the City
Council.
   D.   Use Or Change Of Vacant Land: Written application for a certificate of
occupancy for the use of vacant land or for a change in the character of the
open use of the land as provided in this title shall be made before any such
land shall be so occupied or used. Such a certificate of occupancy shall be
issued within five (5) days after the application therefor has been made if the
use is in conformity with the provisions of this title.
   E.   Statement Of Compliance: Every certificate of occupancy shall state
that the building or proposed use of a building or land complies with all
provisions of this title.
   F.   Record: A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file
in the office of the building official.
   G.   Permits Not Requiring A Certificate Of Occupancy: For grading permits,
demolition permits, and other permit types that do not necessitate a
Certificate of Occupancy, the City may require a site improvement agreement and
financial guarantee to be put in place prior to issuance of such a permit. Said
site improvement agreement and financial guarantee shall be governed under the
terms set forth under subsection C.1 of this section. (Ord. 2018-001, 1-2-2018;
amd. Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-2019; Ord. 2021-020, 12-21-2021)
10-7-9: OPT OUT OF MINNESOTA STATUTES SECTION 462.3593:
Pursuant to authority granted by Minnesota Statutes section 462.3593,
subdivision 9, the City of Baxter opts out of the requirements of Minnesota
Statutes section 462.3593, which defines and regulates temporary family health
care dwellings. (Ord. 2016-041, 8-16-2016)
CHAPTER 8
ILLUSTRATIONS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Typical Residential Lot Plan
10-8-2: Typical Site-Landscape Plan
10-8-3: Buffer Zone
10-8-4: 100-Year Floodplain
10-8-5: Waterfront Lots
10-8-1: TYPICAL RESIDENTIAL LOT PLAN:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3bc85df2144b8e37313562986504079727456936/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1596.gif]
(Ord. 2014-24, 10-21-2014)
10-8-2: TYPICAL SITE-LANDSCAPE PLAN:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3bc85df2144b8e37313562986504079727456936/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1598.gif]
(Ord. 2014-24, 10-21-2014)
10-8-3: BUFFER ZONE:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3bc85df2144b8e37313562986504079727456936/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1600.gif]
(Ord. 2014-24, 10-21-2014)
10-8-4: 100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3bc85df2144b8e37313562986504079727456936/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1602.gif]
(Ord. 2014-24, 10-21-2014)
10-8-5: WATERFRONT LOTS:
   A.   With Water Oriented Accessory Structure:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3bc85df2144b8e37313562986504079727456936/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1604.gif]
   B.   Without Water Oriented Accessory Structure:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3bc85df2144b8e37313562986504079727456936/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1606.gif]
(Ord. 2014-24, 10-21-2014)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Intent And Purpose
11-1-3: Relationship To Comprehensive Plan
11-1-4: More Restrictive Provision To Apply
11-1-5: Conformity With This Title Is Required
11-1-6: Separability
11-1-7: Authority
11-1-8: Definitions
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE
OF THE CITY OF BAXTER, except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as
"this title". (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   To implement the comprehensive plan.
   B.   To ensure that subdivisions are consistent with all applicable
provisions of all applicable plans, laws and regulations.
   C.   To establish standard requirements, conditions, and procedures for the
design and review of subdivisions.
   D.   To provide for the orderly subdivision of land, and to ensure proper
legal descriptions and monumentation of subdivided land.
   E.   To encourage the wise use and management of land and natural resources
throughout the city in order to preserve the integrity, stability, and natural
beauty of the community.
   F.   To ensure that adequate public infrastructure, facilities and services
are available concurrent with development.
   G.   To require subdividers to furnish land, install infrastructure, pay
fees, and establish mitigative measures to ensure that development provides its
fair share of capital facilities.
   H.   To encourage a beneficial relationship between the uses of land and
circulation of traffic throughout the city, and to provide for the proper
location and design of streets.
   I.   To prevent problems associated with inappropriately subdivided lands,
including premature subdivision, excess subdivision, partial or incomplete
subdivision, or scattered subdivision.
   J.   To assure that new subdivisions will contribute toward an attractive,
orderly, stable, livable, and safe community.
   K.   The city council deems these regulations to be necessary for the
preservation of the health, safety, and general welfare of the city. These
regulations have been developed pursuant to the authority set forth in
Minnesota statutes section 462.358, and set forth in the appropriate sections
of chapter 505, as indicated.
   L.   Except as provided herein, no land shall be platted, subdivided,
rearranged, developed, or improved in any way that is not in conformity with
these regulations.
   M.   Encourage well planned, efficient, and attractive subdivisions by
establishing adequate standards for design and construction.
   N.   Provide for the health, welfare, and safety of residents by requiring
properly designed streets, adequate sewage and potable water service, adequate
storm drainage systems, other utilities, and other necessary improvements.
   O.   Place the cost of improvements on those benefiting from their
construction.
   P.   Secure the rights of the public with respect to public lands,
easements, and waters. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-1-3: RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
It is the policy of the city of Baxter that the enforcement, amendment, and
administration of this chapter be accomplished consistent with the city's
comprehensive plan, as may be amended from time to time. The city council
recognizes the comprehensive plan as the official policy for the regulation of
land use and development in accordance with the policies and purpose herein set
forth. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-1-4: MORE RESTRICTIVE PROVISION TO APPLY:
Where the regulations imposed by any provisions of this title are either more
or less restrictive than comparable regulations imposed by this title, or any
other law, ordinance, rule, or regulation of the city, state, or federal
government, the law, ordinance, rule, or regulation which imposes the more
restrictive condition, standard, or requirement shall prevail. (Ord. 2014-02,
2-18-2014)
11-1-5: CONFORMITY WITH THIS TITLE IS REQUIRED:
No land shall be divided, subdivided, or resubdivided in a manner that does not
comply with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-1-6: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city that the several
provisions of this title are separable in accordance with the following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provisions
of this title not specifically included in said judgment.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this title to a particular property, such
judgment shall not affect the application of said provision to any other
property not specifically included in said judgment. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-1-7: AUTHORITY:
This title is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the municipal
planning act, Minnesota statutes chapter 462, as may be amended. (Ord. 2014-02,
2-18-2014)
11-1-8: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of these regulations, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their definitions shall have the meanings given in this section.
The language set forth in the text of this title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the
singular.
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the future
includes the present.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory while the word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   E.   All measured distances expressed shall be to the nearest tenth of a
foot (0.1') and its metric equivalent.
   F.   The word "lot" shall include the words "plot", "piece", and "parcel" of
land.
   G.   The words "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for",
"designed for", "intended for", "improved for", "maintained for", and "occupied
for".
ABUTTING: Making contact with or separated only by a public thoroughfare (other
than State Highway 210 or State Highway 371 or CSAH 48) or public utility right
of way.
ACRE: A quantity of land containing forty three thousand five hundred sixty
(43,560) square feet or one hundred sixty (160) square rods in whatever shape
and pattern (e.g., circular, square, triangular, irregular, wide or narrow).
ACRE, NET (As Applied To PUD Density Calculations): One acre of contiguous land
subtracting the following: Two-thirds (2/3) of that portion of the acre
delineated as wetlands, half of that portion of the acre defined as bluffs or
steep slopes that drop at a rate of twelve percent (12%) or more per every
fifteen feet (15') or more of distance, and the entire area of public street
rights of way.
ALLEY: A public right of way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
APPLICANT: See definition of Subdivider.
BLOCK: An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by streets
or a combination of streets, exterior boundary lines of the subdivision and/or
bodies of water.
BLUFF: A topographical feature such as a hill, cliff, or embankment having the
following characteristics (an area with an average slope of less than 18
percent over a distance of 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of a
bluff):
   A.   Part or all of the feature is located in the shore land district;
   B.   The slope rises at least twenty five feet (25') above the ordinary high
water level of the water body;
   C.   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point twenty five
feet (25') or more above the ordinary high water level averages thirty percent
(30%) or greater; and
   D.   The slope must drain toward the water body.
BOULEVARD: That portion of the street right of way between the curb or curb
line and the property line.
CITY ATTORNEY: The person licensed by the state to practice law who has been
engaged by the city council.
CITY DESIGNATED FIRE CHIEF: The person so designated by the council.
CITY ENGINEER: The registered professional engineer engaged by the city council
as city engineer.
CITY PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: See definition of Public Works Director.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A compilation of policy statements, goals, standards and
maps for guiding the physical, social and economic development, both private
and public, of the city and its environs and may include, but is not limited
to, the following items: statements of policies, goals, standards, a land use
plan, a transportation plan and recommendations for plan execution.
COUNCIL: The city council, as established by state law.
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units permitted by each zoning district on a
given area of land as described by the zoning ordinance.
DENSITY, NET: The number of dwelling units permitted by this title and by the
zoning ordinance on one net acre of land.
DEVELOPER: See definition of Subdivider.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A required contract between the subdivider and the city
which details the improvements to be constructed in a subdivision and secures
for their payment.
DWELLING UNIT: Any structure or portion of a structure, or other shelter
designed as short or long term living quarters for one or more persons,
including rental or timeshare accommodations such as motel, hotel, or resort
rooms and cabins.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of said owner's property.
FINAL PLAT: A drawing, in final form, showing the proposed subdivision
containing all information and detail required by state statutes and by this
title to be presented to the city council for approval, and which, if approved,
may be duly filed with the county recorder.
FLOODPLAIN: The area adjoining a river, stream, drainage channel, lake, pond or
any low area which is subject to flooding at least once in one hundred (100)
years. FEMA floodplain maps shall govern, unless proven to be in error by
topographic survey.
FRONTAGE: The uninterrupted front boundary line of a lot, or the length of such
line, which abuts on a street or protected water. On a corner lot it shall be
the shortest dimension on a public street.
GRADE: The lowest elevation of the finished surface of the ground, sidewalk, or
other paving within a five foot (5') horizontal distance from any structure.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A hard surface area that either prevents or retards the
entry of water into the soil. Examples of impervious surfaces include, but are
not limited to: roofs, storage areas, walkways, sidewalks, patios, driveways,
parking lots, concrete paving, bituminous/asphalt paving, gravel roads or
parking areas, and other packed earthen materials.
LAKE: Open water without emergent vegetation (identified as protected waters by
the department of natural resources).
LANDSCAPING: Plantings such as trees, grass, shrubs, and decorative timbers,
arbors, rocks and water displays, etc.
LICENSED ENGINEER: A person licensed as a professional engineer by the state of
Minnesota.
LOT: A parcel of land described by U.S. government survey, by metes and bounds
measurement, by reference to a registered land survey plat, by record of survey
map, or other means, and separated from other parcels or portions by said
description; and which is occupied by, or is suitable under this title and
other applicable ordinances for occupancy by one principal building, or used
together with any accessory buildings or uses together with such open spaces as
are required by this or other applicable ordinances. (See also definition of
Lot Of Record.)
LOT AREA: The area of a lot on a horizontal plane bounded by lot lines. For the
purpose of meeting any area or dimensional requirements, the lot area shall not
include any portion that lies within a public road easement or which is below
the ordinary high water mark of any lake, river or stream. In addition, at
least seventy five percent (75%) of the required minimum lot size for that
district must be contiguous upland to itself and not be within a wetland,
floodplain, or bluff. In other words, the lot area would be the contiguous
upland seventy five percent (75%) of the lot that is not within the wetland,
floodplain or bluff.
LOT, BUILDABLE PORTION OF (BUILDING ENVELOPE): The area of a lot on which the
principal structure may be placed, or that portion of the lot remaining after
the minimum building setbacks have been met.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two (2) or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
continuous street, the interior angle of which does not exceed one hundred
thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT LINE: The property line bounding a lot except that where any portion of the
lot extends into the public right of way or a proposed public right of way, the
line of such public right of way shall be the lot line. For purposes of setback
requirements, waterfront lots shall be deemed to have a front lot line on both
the street and the ordinary high water mark.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing, dedicated, or
proposed public street, and in the case of a corner lot it shall be the
shortest dimension on a public street; except lots adjacent to the ordinary
high water mark within the shore land district shall have a front lot line both
on the street and the waterfront. Corner lots shall be deemed to have front lot
setbacks from both streets. A front lot determination may be made by the
planning and zoning administrator based on the orientation of the primary
structure on the corner lot.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line. If
the rear lot line is less than ten feet (10') in length or if the lot forms a
point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be construed to be a line ten feet
(10') in length within the lot, parallel to the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line nor a rear
lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot existing as of January 19, 1982 (the date of Baxter's
first subdivision ordinance), or approved by the city as a lot subsequent to
such date, and includes nonconforming lots.
LOT, THROUGH: Any lot other than a corner lot which abuts more than one street.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot measured
parallel to the front line of the lot at the front building setback line.
OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: See definition of Comprehensive Plan.
100-YEAR STORMWATER ELEVATION: The water surface elevation determined in a 100-
year, 24-hour stormwater analysis as determined in writing by a Minnesota
licensed engineer.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM): An elevation delineating the highest water
level which has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave
evidence upon the landscape. The ordinary high water mark is commonly that
point where the natural vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to
predominantly terrestrial.
OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation,
trust, or any other legal entity having a proprietary interest in the land and/
or building concerned.
PARK: A public or private land dedication as described in the "Baxter park and
recreation plan".
PATHWAY, PEDESTRIAN AND BIKE TRAIL: A public way, running across or located
within a platted lot or block, or an unplatted parcel of land, or within a
public street or thoroughfare right of way, used cooperatively for pedestrian,
biking, and rollerblading traffic.
PEDESTRIANWAY: The right of way across or within a block, for use by pedestrian
traffic.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A tract of land under unified ownership, partnership,
or agreement among two (2) or more owners to provide for a planned development
project wherein there is more than one principal building or land use per lot,
or lots are grouped with common elements such as driveway, open space, parking,
signage, and the like, and with adequate controls to protect adjacent
development and ensure high standards of development in accordance with an
integrated design and coordinated physical plan.
PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The duly appointed person charged with
implementation and enforcement of this title.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: The duly appointed person charged with the oversight of
city owned utilities, city operated streets, and such other duties as may have
been assigned by the city council.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance allowed by this title and/or the
zoning ordinance, between a structure, a parking area, or other feature
established on such lot, and a lot line.
SETBACK, MINIMUM BUILDING: The minimum horizontal distance allowed by this
title and/or the zoning ordinance, between a structure and a lot line.
SHORE LAND: Land located within the following distances from public waters: one
thousand feet (1,000') from the ordinary high water mark of any lake and three
hundred feet (300') from the bank of the river or stream or three hundred feet
(300') from the base floodplain surface elevation, whichever is a greater
distance, all as identified in section
10-3L-3 of this code.
SIDEWALK: A hard surfaced public or private way, used primarily for pedestrian
traffic.
STATE TRAIL: A trail, such as the Paul Bunyan Trail, provided and maintained by
the department of natural resources, to afford combined use of trail users, for
snowmobilers, hikers, bikers, and rollerbladers, etc.
STREET: A public or private way, consisting in the case of a private way of a
roadway and in the case of a public way of a roadway and a boulevard (the
latter of which may contain a sidewalk, trail, pathway, or pedestrianway), used
primarily for vehicular traffic, which may be designated as a street, avenue,
parkway, road, lane, throughway, expressway, highway, place or however
otherwise designated. The term street includes the following classifications:
   Street, Collector: A street which carries traffic from local streets to
highways of higher classifications. See the Baxter roadway map for the list and
location of all such streets.
   Street, Cul-De-Sac: A street with a circular turnaround and only one outlet.
   Street, Local: A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
and from abutting properties for the local needs of a neighborhood. See the
Baxter roadway map for the list and location of all such streets therein marked
as residential streets.
   Street, Minor Arterial: A street that interconnects with and augments the
urban major arterial system to provide service for trips of moderate length at
lower levels of travel mobility than principal arterials. See the Baxter
roadway map for the list and location of all such streets therein marked as
arterial streets.
   Street, Principal Arterial: Usually a divided highway with four (4) or more
lanes and serves to move traffic through the city, being the highest volume
traffic corridors. See the Baxter roadway map for the list and location of all
such streets therein marked as expressway streets.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires a location on the
ground for a period of greater than ten (10) days, or attachment to something
having a permanent location on the ground, including signs; accessory
structures; and including utility structures or boxes in excess of thirty (30)
cubic feet.
SUBDIVIDER: Owner of land submitting a plat (also called developer).
SUBDIVISION: The division of any parcel of land into two (2) or more lots,
blocks, and/or sites, with or without streets or highways; includes a
resubdivision. In addition, the creation of any cooperative, condominium or any
other common interest community now regulated by Minnesota statutes chapter
515B including any such community that is excepted from said chapter 515B due
to its low number of units or commercial character.
SURVEYOR: A person duly registered as a land surveyor by the state of
Minnesota.
TOE OF BLUFF: The lower point of a fifty foot (50') segment of land with an
average slope exceeding eighteen percent (18%).
TOP OF BLUFF: The higher point of a fifty foot (50') segment of land with an
average slope exceeding eighteen percent (18%).
WETLANDS: Classified and located as shown on the national wetlands inventory or
delineation of record by a qualified delineator and surveyor.
YARD: A required open space on a lot, which is unoccupied and unobstructed by
any structure from its lowest ground level to the sky except as expressly
permitted in this title.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the front of the lot between the side lot
lines and lying between the front lot line and the nearest front line of the
primary structure.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of the lot between the side lot
lines lying between the rear lot line and the nearest line of the building.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the side lot line and the nearest line of the
building and extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line.
ZONING DISTRICT: An area or areas within the city of Baxter for which the
regulations and requirements governing use, lot size, and other characteristics
are uniform.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The city of Baxter zoning ordinance, as amended from time to
time. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
CHAPTER 2
PLATTING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-2-1: Subdivision Approval Required
11-2-2: Preliminary Plat Procedure
11-2-3: Final Plat Procedure
11-2-4: Concurrent Preliminary And Final Plat Review Procedure
11-2-5: Administrative Subdivision Procedure
11-2-6: CIC Plats For Lots Held In Separate Ownership
11-2-1: SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Subdivision Approval Required: Subdivision approval in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter shall be required for the separation of an area,
parcel, or tract of land under single ownership into two (2) or more parcels,
lots, tracts, or long term leasehold interests. The city will withhold building
permits from properties created under state, federal or judicial preemption if
such properties do not meet the minimum development standards of the city.
   B.   Conveyance By Metes And Bounds: All property conveyances must be made
by plat, except the following, which are exempted by Minnesota statutes section
462.352, subdivision 12 or this title:
      1.   Separations where all the resulting parcels, tracts, lots, or
interests will be twenty (20) acres or larger in size and five hundred feet
(500') in width for residential uses and five (5) acres or larger in size for
commercial and industrial uses.
      2.   Cemetery lots.
      3.   Court ordered divisions or lot line adjustments.
      4.   Lot consolidation, since subdivision refers only to separation of
land.
      5.   Administrative subdivisions as defined by involving not more than
two (2) parcels, subject to section
11-2-5 of this chapter.
      6.   Lot line modifications that correct encroachment issues, as
determined by the zoning administrator, subject ot the completion of a
certificate of survey. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014; amd. Ord. 2019-012, 7-16-2019)
11-2-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application: An application for a preliminary plat shall be approved or
denied pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 462.358.
      1.   Filing: A preliminary plat application shall be filed with the
planning and zoning administrator on an official application form. The
application shall be accompanied by the fee as set forth in this code. The
application shall also be accompanied by detailed written and graphic
materials, the number and size as prescribed by the planning and zoning
administrator, fully describing the proposed plat. The application shall be
considered as being officially submitted and complete when the subdivider has
complied with all the specified submittal requirements, as described in this
section. If the subdivision requires any variances from the provisions of this
chapter, an application pursuant to section
11-6-2 of this title shall also be submitted before the preliminary plat
application shall be deemed complete.
      2.   Staff Analysis: Upon receiving a complete application, as determined
by staff review, the planning and zoning administrator shall refer copies of
the preliminary plat to the city staff and other applicable public agencies as
needed in order to receive written comments. Preliminary plats including land
abutting an existing or proposed trunk highway and/or highway under county
jurisdiction shall also be submitted to the Minnesota commissioner of
transportation and/or the Crow Wing County transportation planning division as
required by state law, at least thirty (30) days prior to city action on the
preliminary plat. The planning and zoning administrator shall instruct the
appropriate staff person to: a) coordinate an analysis of the application, b)
prepare technical reports, and c) assist in preparing a recommendation to the
planning and zoning commission and city council.
      3.   Public Hearing Notice: Upon completion of staff's analysis of the
application, the planning and zoning administrator, when required, shall set a
public hearing date for an upcoming planning and zoning commission meeting.
Notice of the hearing, including a description of the request and the legal
description of the property, shall be published in the city's official
newspaper, "The Brainerd Daily Dispatch" at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing. Written notification of the hearing shall also be mailed to all
property owners located within three hundred fifty feet (350') of the site at
least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. Failure of a property owner to
receive mailed notice or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the
proceedings.
      4.   Public Utilities Commission Consideration: The public utilities
commission shall consider a preliminary plat application, as follows:
         a.   The public utilities commission shall review all plats with
public infrastructure, including public streets, sanitary sewer, municipal
water or other utilities.
         b.   The subdivider or representatives thereof may appear before the
public utilities commission to present information and answer questions
concerning the proposal.
         c.   The public utilities commission shall make a recommendation to
the city council and shall recommend approval of the preliminary plat if it in
all ways conforms to the city's comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, this
chapter and all chapters of this code regarding municipal infrastructure. The
commission shall recommend denial of the preliminary plat if it makes any of
the following findings:
            (1)   That the proposed subdivision is in conflict with the city's
comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, capital improvements program, or other
policy or regulation, except as such regulations may be modified within a duly
approved planned unit development (PUD).
            (2)   That the proposed subdivision is in conflict with the purpose
and intent of this title.
            (3)   That the physical characteristics of the site are such that
the site is not suitable for the type of development or use contemplated. Such
physical characteristics may include topography, vegetation, susceptibility to
erosion and siltation, susceptibility to flooding, water storage and retention
and other similar characteristics.
            (4)   That the site is not physically suitable for the intensity or
type of development or use contemplated.
            (5)   That the design of the subdivision or the proposed
improvements are likely to cause substantial and irreversible environmental
damage.
            (6)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of
improvements will be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of
the public.
            (7)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvement
will conflict with easements on record or with easements established by
judgment of a court.
      5.   Planning And Zoning Commission Consideration: The planning and
zoning commission shall consider a preliminary plat application, as follows:
         a.   The planning and zoning commission shall review the preliminary
plat and conduct the official public hearing. At the public hearing, all
persons interested in the proposed subdivision shall be heard.
         b.   The subdivider or representatives thereof may appear before the
planning and zoning commission to present information and answer questions
concerning the proposal.
         c.   The planning and zoning commission and staff shall have the
authority to request additional information from the subdivider concerning the
proposal, as deemed necessary to formulate a recommendation on the proposal.
         d.   The planning and zoning commission shall recommend approval of
the preliminary plat if it in all ways conforms to the city's comprehensive
plan, zoning ordinance, this chapter and all chapters of this code. The
commission shall recommend denial of the preliminary plat if it makes any of
the following findings:
            (1)   That the proposed subdivision is in conflict with the city's
comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, capital improvements program, or other
policy or regulation, except as such regulations may be modified within a duly
approved planned unit development (PUD).
            (2)   That the proposed subdivision is in conflict with the purpose
and intent of this title.
            (3)   That the physical characteristics of the site are such that
the site is not suitable for the type of development or use contemplated. Such
physical characteristics may include topography, vegetation, susceptibility to
erosion and siltation, susceptibility to flooding, water storage and retention
and other similar characteristics.
            (4)   That the site is not physically suitable for the intensity or
type of development or use contemplated.
            (5)   That the design of the subdivision or the proposed
improvements are likely to cause substantial and irreversible environmental
damage.
            (6)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of
improvements will be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of
the public.
            (7)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvement
will conflict with easements on record or with easements established by
judgment of a court.
      6.   City Council Consideration: The city council shall consider a
preliminary plat application, as follows:
         a.   Upon receiving the reports and recommendations of the planning
and zoning commission and staff, the city administrator shall schedule the
application for city council consideration. The council shall have the option
of receiving additional testimony on the matter if they so choose.
         b.   The council shall either approve or deny the application. Failure
of the council to act within one hundred twenty (120) days of submission of the
preliminary plat is deemed approval of such plat, unless the applicant agrees
to an extension.
         c.   Approval of a preliminary plat by the city council shall require
passage by a majority vote of all its members. Such approval shall constitute
general acceptance of the layout, but shall not constitute final acceptance of
the subdivision. Subsequent approval of a final plat will be required before
recording of the plat. The council may require plan revisions and may impose
conditions upon approval, as deemed necessary to protect the health, safety,
and general welfare of the city.
         d.   If a preliminary plat is denied by the city council, the reasons
for such action shall be recorded in the council proceedings and transmitted to
the applicant within sixty (60) days.
      7.   Effect Of Approval: For one year following preliminary plat
approval, unless the subdivider and city agree otherwise, no amendment to the
comprehensive plan or other official controls shall apply to or affect the use,
development density, lot size, or lot layout that was approved.
      8.   Effect Of Denial: If a preliminary plat application is denied by the
city council, the planning and zoning commission or city council shall not
consider a similar application for a preliminary plat affecting substantially
the same property again for at least six (6) months from the date of its
denial.
      9.   Expiration Of Preliminary Plat Approval: Unless the city council
specifically approves a different time period, the approval of a preliminary
plat shall expire one year from the date it was approved, unless the applicant
has filed a complete application for approval of a final plat; or, unless
before expiration of the one year period, the applicant submits a written
request for an extension thereof. Such request for an extension shall include
the following: a) an explanation for why a final plat has not been applied for,
b) what, if any, good faith efforts have been made to complete the platting
process, and c) the anticipated completion date. The planning and zoning
administrator may approve up to two (2) such extensions of not more than one
additional year per extension.
   B.   Common Interest Community: In the case of any common interest community
as defined by Minnesota statutes chapter 515B, the subdivider may elect to
complete construction of all improvements and structures after preliminary plat
approval but prior to final plat approval. In such cases, the subdivider shall
still be required to submit a development agreement and all fees as required in
section
11-2-3 of this chapter prior to the issuance of any grading or building permit.
(Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-2-3: FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE:
   A.   An application for a final plat shall be approved or denied pursuant to
Minnesota statutes section 462.358.
      1.   Compliance With Preliminary Plat: A final plat application shall be
in substantial compliance with the approved preliminary plat, including any
required modifications thereto.
      2.   Filing: A final plat application shall be filed with the planning
and zoning administrator on an official application form. The application shall
be accompanied by the fee as set forth in this code. The application shall also
be accompanied by detailed written and graphic materials, the number and size
as prescribed by the planning and zoning administrator, that describes the
final plat. The application shall be considered as being officially submitted
and complete when the subdivider has complied with all the specified submittal
requirements, as described in this section.
      3.   Staff Analysis: Upon receiving a complete application, as determined
by staff review, the planning and zoning administrator shall refer copies of
the final plat to the city staff and other applicable public agencies as needed
in order to receive written comments. The planning and zoning administrator
shall instruct the appropriate staff person to: a) coordinate an analysis of
the application, b) prepare technical reports and coordinate preparation of the
development agreement, and c) assist in preparing a recommendation to the city
council.
      4.   City Council Consideration: The city council shall consider a final
plat as follows:
         a.   Upon receiving the reports and recommendations of the staff, the
city administrator shall schedule the application for city council
consideration. The council shall have the option of receiving additional
testimony on the matter if they so choose.
         b.   The city council shall either approve or deny the application.
            (1)   The council may, if all reports indicate full compliance with
the provisions of this title, approve the final plat and development agreement
as submitted, and authorize the mayor and city administrator to sign the final
plat and the development agreement. Failure to approve or disapprove the final
plat within sixty (60) days of its submission shall be deemed to be approved as
long as applicant has complied with all conditions and requirements upon which
the preliminary plat was approved.
            (2)   The council may, if the report from the planning and zoning
administrator indicates substantial deviation in the final plat from the
approved preliminary plat, determine that the subdivider shall present a new
plat; in which event, the council shall deny approval of the final plat and
direct the subdivider to resubmit such subdivider's amended proposal following
preliminary plat requirements.
         c.   Approval of a final plat and any related development agreement by
the city council shall require passage by a majority vote of all its members.
The council may require such revisions in the final plat as it deems necessary
for the health, safety, general welfare and convenience of the city.
         d.   If a final plat is denied by the city council, the reasons for
such action shall be recorded in the council proceedings and transmitted to the
applicant within sixty (60) days.
      5.   Recording Of Final Plat: If the final plat is approved and signed by
the mayor and city officials, the subdivider shall record the final plat with
the county recorder or the registrar of titles. No substantive changes,
erasures, modifications or revisions shall be made in any final plat after
approval has been given by the city council and endorsed in writing on the
plat.
      6.   Effect Of Approval: For two (2) years following final plat approval,
unless the subdivider and city agree otherwise, no amendment to the
comprehensive plan or other official controls shall apply to or affect the use,
development density, lot size, or lot layout that was approved.
      7.   Effect Of Denial: If a final plat application is denied by the city
council, the planning and zoning commission or city council shall not consider
a similar application for a final plat affecting substantially the same
property again for at least six (6) months from the date of its denial.
      8.   Expiration Of Final Plat Approval: Unless the city council
specifically approves a different time period, the approval of a final plat
shall expire two (2) years from the date it was approved, unless the applicant
has recorded the final plat with Crow Wing County; or, unless before expiration
of the two (2) year period, the applicant submits a written request for an
extension thereof. Such request for an extension shall include the following:
a) an explanation for why a final plat has not been filed, b) what, if any,
good faith efforts have been made to complete the platting process, and c) the
anticipated completion date. The Planning and Zoning Administrator may approve
one such extension for a term not to exceed one additional year.
      9.   Mylars: The subdivider shall furnish the Planning and Zoning
Administrator a mylar original and two (2) full size copies and one reduction
of the final plat showing evidence of the final recording. The subdivider shall
be responsible for any costs incurred pertaining to the verification of the
final plat materials. The subdivider shall also furnish one reduced size mylar
of the final plat with a scale no greater than one inch equals two hundred feet
(1" = 200'), and an AutoCAD DWG or DXF file. Failure to furnish such copies
shall be grounds for the City's refusal to issue building permits for lots
within said final plat.
      10.   Modifications: No changes, erasures, modifications, or revisions
shall be made in any final plat after approval has been given by the Council,
unless said plat is resubmitted to the City and the City Council approves any
such modifications. In the event that any such final plat is recorded without
complying with this requirement, approval of such final plat can be rendered
null and void by the Council and no building permits will be issued for lots
within said final plat; and the Council shall institute proceedings to have the
plat stricken from the records of the City and of the County. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-
18-2014)
11-2-4: CONCURRENT PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT REVIEW PROCEDURE:
   A.   Concurrent Preliminary And Final Plat Review: At the discretion of the
Planning and Zoning Administrator, applicants may file for concurrent review of
the preliminary and final plat applications. (Ord. 2017-007, 8-1-2017)
      1.   Filing: A complete application for a preliminary plat and final plat
approval must be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Administrator in a form
established by said Administrator, along with a nonrefundable fee that has been
established by the City Council. No application will be processed until the
application is complete and the required fee has been paid.
      2.   Review And Report: The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall
prepare a staff report that reviews the application in the light of the
Comprehensive Plan, the standards required by the zoning ordinance for the
zoning district the concerned property lies within, and all other applicable
standards of this title.
      3.   Action By City: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a
public hearing on the preliminary plat application and, after the close of the
public hearing, act to recommend approval or denial of the application for the
preliminary plat. The City Council will act to approve or deny the preliminary
plat and final plat. The Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council will
follow the preliminary and final plat review procedures described in this
title. A preliminary plat and final plat may not be approved unless it complies
with the standards of this title and the zoning ordinance for the zoning
district the concerned property lies within.
         a.   The final plat shall be reviewed based on the consistency with
the preliminary plat.
         b.   The preliminary and final plats may be processed concurrently,
but the final plat shall be deemed incomplete until Council takes action on the
preliminary plat.
         c.   The sixty (60) day review period required by Minnesota Statutes
section 462.358 shall not begin until City Council action is taken to approve
the preliminary plat.
      4.   Notices: Notice of the public hearing before the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be the same as that for a preliminary plat per section
11-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-2-5: ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Administrative Subdivision: An administrative subdivision is a lot
division, lot adjustment, lot consolidation or subdivisions exempted from
platting by Minnesota Statutes section 462.352, subdivision 12, that may not
require a plat or replat and may be administratively approved, provided all of
the following conditions are met:
      1.   The subdivision shall be in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan
and the purpose and intent of this chapter.
      2.   The subdivision shall not result in or affect more than two (2)
parcels.
      3.   The subdivision shall be part of a previously recorded plat or
registered land survey.
      4.   The subdivision shall result in lots that meet the minimum
dimensional requirements for the zoning district in which the property is
located, or shall not further increase the nonconformity of any lot dimension.
      5.   The subdivision shall not cause any structure on the property to be
made nonconforming or to be in violation of the zoning ordinance or any other
provisions of this code.
      6.   All parcels resulting from the subdivision shall have frontage and
access on an existing improved street.
      7.   The resulting parcels shall generally conform with the shape,
character, and area of existing or anticipated land subdivisions in the
surrounding areas.
      8.   Any such subdivision shall not require any public improvements or
the dedication of right of way.
      9.   Any such subdivision shall not result in legal descriptions that are
unduly complex.
      10.   The subdivider shall provide easements, as required by this
chapter.
      11.   The subdivider shall comply with the park dedication regulations,
as required for a plat.
      12.   Prior to issuance of building permits, property irons shall be
installed pursuant to Minnesota statutes.
   B.   Filing: A request for an administrative subdivision shall be filed with
the planning and zoning administrator on an official application form. Such
application shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth in title 1, chapter 10
of this code. Such application shall also be accompanied by detailed written
and graphic materials, the number and size as prescribed by the planning and
zoning administrator, fully explaining the purpose of the proposal, and
including any proposed development and use.
   C.   Staff Analysis: Upon receiving a complete application, as determined by
staff review, the planning and zoning administrator shall refer copies of the
administrative subdivision to the city staff and other applicable public
agencies as needed in order to receive written comments. Subdivisions including
land abutting an existing or proposed trunk highway and/or highway under county
jurisdiction shall also be submitted to the Minnesota commissioner of
transportation and/or the Crow Wing County transportation planning division as
required by state law, at least thirty (30) days prior to city action on the
subdivision. The planning and zoning administrator shall instruct the
appropriate staff person to coordinate an analysis of the application prior to
administrative action of the subdivision.
   D.   Action On Administrative Plat: An administrative subdivision may
receive administrative approval by the planning and zoning administrator or
his/her designated representative, provided the application is found to meet
all the specified conditions. Pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 462.358,
an application for an administrative subdivision shall be approved or denied
within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of its official and complete
submission unless extended pursuant to statute or a time waiver is granted by
the subdivider.
   E.   Effect Of Approval: For one year following administrative subdivision
approval, unless the subdivider and city agree otherwise, no amendment to the
comprehensive plan or other official controls shall apply to or affect the use,
development density, lot size, or lot layout that was approved.
   F.   Effect Of Denial: If an administrative subdivision application is
denied by the planning and zoning administrator, a similar application for an
administrative subdivision affecting substantially the same property shall not
be considered again by the city for at least six (6) months from the date of
its denial.
   G.   Expiration Of Administrative Subdivision Approval: The approval of an
administrative subdivision shall expire one year from the date it was approved,
unless before expiration of the one year period the applicant submits a written
request for an extension thereof. Such request for an extension shall include
the following: 1) an explanation for why the administrative subdivision has not
been recorded, 2) what, if any, good faith efforts have been made to complete
the subdivision process, and 3) the anticipated completion date. The planning
and zoning administrator may approve up to two (2) such extensions of not more
than one additional year per extension. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-2-6: CIC PLATS FOR LOTS HELD IN SEPARATE OWNERSHIP:
   A.   A common interest community (CIC) plat is required for those lots held
in separate ownership, but considered one zoning lot in order to fulfill code
requirements, because common site elements are shared between the lots. The
city is not responsible for maintenance of perpetual rights between private
owners for common elements, such as off street parking spaces, access drives
and open space, that are shared between lots in separate ownership. CIC plats
must be prepared by a licensed land surveyor in accordance with Minnesota
statutes 515B.2-110.
   B.   Prior to the date of adoption of this code, those lots held in separate
ownership, but considered one zoning lot in order to fulfill code requirements,
which were established through the certificate of survey process or a cross
access agreement are permitted to continue under such approved certificates of
survey or previously established agreements. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
CHAPTER 3
PLATTING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Preliminary Plat Requirements
11-3-2: Final Plat Requirements
11-3-3: Administrative Subdivision Requirements
11-3-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Survey And Design Information Required: The preliminary plat shall be
clearly and legibly drawn at a scale no greater than one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Identification And Description:
         a.   The proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate
or be similar in pronunciation to the name of a plat previously recorded in
Crow Wing County.
         b.   The location of the subdivision by section, township and range.
         c.   The name and address of the owner(s), subdivider(s), surveyor,
and designer.
         d.   Graphic scale, north point, and date of preparation.
      2.   Existing Conditions:
         a.   A boundary line survey of the proposed subdivision, including
measured distances and angles, which shall be tied into the nearest section or
quarter section corner by traverse.
         b.   Existing zoning classifications, including shore land
designations for land within the subdivision and on abutting property within
three hundred fifty feet (350') of the property within the proposed preliminary
plat.
         c.   Wetlands from the national wetlands inventory and professionally
delineated wetlands on the subject property.
         d.   Total acreage of the preliminary plat and acreages of any
wetlands therein.
         e.   Location, width, and name of every existing or previously platted
street or private easement (either of record or any possible prescriptive
easements), showing type, width and condition of improvements, railroad and
utility rights of way, parks and other public open spaces, permanent buildings
and structures, section lines and corporate boundaries within the proposed
subdivision and within a distance of three hundred fifty feet (350') of said
proposed subdivision. If the proposed subdivision gains access to a public
street via a private easement, the entire easement until it intersects with a
public right of way shall be depicted on the preliminary plat even if this
extends beyond three hundred fifty feet (350').
         f.   If the proposed subdivision is a rearrangement or replat of any
former plat or portion thereof, the lot and block arrangement of the original
plat, along with its original name, shall be indicated by dotted or dashed
lines. Also, any revised or vacated roadways of the original plat shall be so
indicated.
         g.   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, storm sewer
mains, or other underground facilities within the proposed subdivision and to a
distance of one hundred feet (100') beyond shall also be indicated.
         h.   Boundary lines of unplatted lands within three hundred fifty feet
(350'), identified by record owner's name, shall be indicated.
         i.   Existing drainage patterns both within the plat and current
drainage patterns showing run on and runoff from the platted land.
         j.   The contour line denoting land classified as flood zone A or land
below the known 100-year stormwater elevation.
      3.   Subdivision Design Features:
         a.   Layout of the proposed streets showing right of way widths and
proposed street names. If the proposed street is an extension of an existing
named street, the name shall be used. In all other cases, the name of the
street shall be consistent with the county and city street naming system as
determined by E911 requirements.
         b.   Locations and widths of pedestrianways and utility easements.
         c.   Layout numbers and preliminary dimensions of lots and blocks.
         d.   Areas intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use,
including their size in acres.
         e.   Areas intended for uses other than residential or public.
         f.   Minimum front and side building setback lines as required by the
zoning ordinance.
         g.   An inset showing utility easements for five foot (5') side lot
and ten foot (10') front.
   B.   Other Required Information: The following information shall be filed
with or included on the proposed preliminary plat:
      1.   A complete topographic map, at a scale no greater than one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), with contour intervals not greater than
two feet (2'), showing watercourses, wetlands, rock outcrops, and other
significant features. Due to known high groundwater elevations, contour
intervals of not greater than one foot (1') shall be required for applications
within Section 6, Township 133N-Range 28W; Section 1, Township 133N-Range 29W
and Section 31, Township 134N-Range 28W. At least one print of the preliminary
plat shall be superimposed on a copy of the topographic map. USGS datum shall
be used for all topographic mapping.
      2.   Soil absorption (percolation) tests where disposal fields are
proposed for more than one dwelling unit and any other subsoil information
requested by the city engineer.
      3.   Plans for water supply, sewage disposal, stormwater drainage system,
including proposed location, size, and gradient of proposed sewer lines and
water mains, and such other supporting data as may be required by the city
engineer or the planning and zoning administrator.
      4.   Centerline gradients of proposed streets.
      5.   Typical cross section of proposed street improvements.
      6.   Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is being
proposed for subdivision, the city may require that the subdivider submit a
sketch plat of the adjacent property so as to show the relationship of the
proposed subdivision to the future development of the adjacent property.
      7.   Current professional delineation of all wetlands within the plat.
      8.   If any part of said plat is within a shore land district, such part
of the plat shall show the elevation line of the shore land district boundary,
ordinary high water mark and any bluffs.
      9.   If applicable, show the contour line of any land within a floodplain
or, if the elevations for said land are not known, note accordingly.
      10.   Provide a construction and permanent erosion plan that details wind
and water erosion control structures as well as temporary and permanent
seeding.
      11.   Provide information on the plat to indicate that the front setback
line of every lot in the plat shall be within four feet (4') in elevation from
the approximate finished centerline elevation of the nearest street. If such
elevations are not feasible, the planning and zoning administrator must
specifically authorize any exception thereto.
      12.   Provide a stormwater retention plan. This plan shall be engineered
so that the plat shall retain the stormwater runoff of a 100-year rain event if
said plat is not served by storm sewer or some other city maintained stormwater
drainage system. If the plat is served by some city maintained stormwater
drainage system it shall retain the stormwater runoff of a 5-year rain event.
      13.   Any additional information required by the planning and zoning
administrator, the planning and zoning commission, or city staff members called
upon to render opinions on any part of the proposed preliminary plat.
   C.   Qualifications Governing Approval Of A Preliminary Plat:
      1.   The approval of a preliminary plat by the council shall only
constitute acceptance of the design as a basis for the preparation of the final
plat by the owners or subdividers. Subsequent approval by appropriate officials
having jurisdiction will be required of the engineering proposals, water
systems, stormwater drainage, sewage disposal, sidewalks, pathways, trails,
grading, gradients and roadway widths, and the surfacing of streets prior to
the approval of the final plat by the city. The subdivider shall also present
evidence that the proposed plat has been submitted to the utility companies
responsible for the provision of natural gas, electric power, and telephone
services.
      2.   No preliminary plat will be approved for a subdivision which
includes an area which contains poor drainage facilities which would render
inadequate the streets or building sites proposed by reason of such plat,
unless the subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of
the city engineer, make such areas completely usable and safe for occupancy and
provide for adequate street and lot drainage.
      3.   If wetland fill permits are required for development of roadway,
trail, building site or other reasons, the city council may require the fill
permits to be acquired prior to final plat approval. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-3-2: FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
The final plat shall be prepared in accordance with Minnesota statutes chapters
462 and 505. The plat may consist of more than one sheet, numbered
progressively, and shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name of the subdivision, lettered in large print at the top of the
plat, together with the location of the subdivision by section, township, and
range, city and county.
   B.   Graphic scale and north point.
   C.   An accurate map of the proposed subdivision at a scale no greater than
one inch equals two hundred feet (1" = 200'), which shall show the following
information and meet the requirements of Minnesota statutes section 505.021:
      1.   The boundary of the proposed plat shall be surveyed. All angle and
curve points on the plat boundary lines shall be monumented. In situations that
would make it impossible to set a plat monument, a meander or witness monument
shall be set and so noted on the plat.
      2.   The accurate location of all monuments and a bench mark.
      3.   Accurate angular and linear dimensions for all lines, angles, and
curvatures used to describe the boundaries, streets, alleys, pathways, trails,
easements, areas to be reserved for public use, and other important features
within the proposed subdivision. All interior monuments shall be set within one
year of recording or prior to issuance of any building permits.
      4.   All lots and blocks numbered in numerical order.
      5.   All municipal, county, or section lines within or at the boundary of
the proposed subdivision.
      6.   Identification and accurate boundaries of any areas to be dedicated
or reserved for public use or for the exclusive use of property owners within
the subdivision.
      7.   The names of all streets.
      8.   If the subdivision is a replatting or rearrangement of a legal
subdivision, or any portion thereof, the original platting shall be shown by
dotted lines.
      9.   Designated wetlands, manmade ponds, and the shore of any shore land.
      10.   Any sites reserved for other than residential and public use.
   D.   Notarized certification by a registered land surveyor, that the plat
represents a survey made by such surveyor, and that the monuments, lot corners,
and survey points shown thereon exist as located and that all dimensions are
correct, as required by Minnesota statutes section 505.03.
   E.   Notarized certification by the owner(s) of record at the time of the
approval of the plat, together with the dedication of streets and other public
areas to the public, and if applicable, the dedication of common areas to a
property owners' association, as required by Minnesota statutes section 505.03.
   F.   If any part of said plat is to be dedicated for the use and control by
a property owners' association, the agreement establishing the common interest
community per Minnesota statutes chapter 515B must be recorded at the same time
as the final plat and be in compliance with section
11-2-6 of this title.
   G.   In the event the final plat was approved by the city, conditioned on
certain recorded covenants to be applicable, such covenants shall be recorded
at the same time as the final plat.
   H.   Certification showing that all real estate taxes and special
assessments currently due on the property to be subdivided have been paid in
full.
   I.   The plat must be on the Crow Wing County coordinate system.
   J.   Certification of an independent plat check must be provided.
   K.   The subdivider shall also submit to the city at the same time a title
opinion or a title insurance commitment to be reviewed and approved by the city
attorney; a copy of proposed restrictive covenants to be recorded with said
final plat; and such other evidence as the city attorney may require showing
the subdivider's valid title or ownership in the land to be subdivided.
   L.   The subdivider shall have incorporated all changes and modifications
from the preliminary plat review in the final plat as required by the city
council. In all other respects, the final plat shall conform to the preliminary
plat.
   M.   A development plan for the necessary improvements, if there are any,
including a cost breakdown, shall be submitted by the subdivider to the
planning and zoning administrator, and then forwarded to the city public works
director and to the city engineer for review. The public works director shall
thereupon prepare a proposed development agreement.
   N.   A form for recording the approval of the council as follows:
Approved by the City of Baxter, Minnesota, this          day of
               . 20        .
Signed       
   Mayor
Signed       
   City Clerk
(Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-3-3: ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required Conditions: When a subdivision meets the requirements for an
administrative subdivision in section
11-2-5 of this title and is situated in an area where public utilities and
street rights of way to serve the proposed parcels already exist in accordance
with city codes, and no further utility or street extensions are necessary, and
the new parcels meet or exceed the size requirements of the zoning code, the
applicant may apply for an administrative subdivision approval if the following
conditions apply:
      1.   The proposed subdivision parcels shall not cause any portion of the
existing lots, parcels, or existing buildings to be in violation of this
regulation or the zoning code.
      2.   The new legal descriptions for the properties are metes and bounds
rather than a plat.
      3.   The resulting lots must meet all applicable ordinance requirements,
except that if one of the lots was previously nonconforming, it must become
more conforming as a result of the subdivision.
   B.   Procedure: The planning and zoning administrator may choose, in his or
her discretion, to require an administrative subdivision to follow the
procedure applicable to other subdivisions.
   C.   Survey And Design Information Required: The plans shall be clearly and
legibly drawn at a scale no greater than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" =
100') and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Identification And Description:
         a.   The location of the subdivision by section, township and range.
         b.   The name and address of the owner(s), subdivider(s), surveyor,
and designer.
         c.   Graphic scale, north point, and date of preparation.
      2.   Existing Conditions:
         a.   A boundary line survey of the proposed subdivision, including
measured distances and angles, which shall be tied into the nearest section or
quarter section corner by traverse.
         b.   Existing zoning classifications, including shore land
designations for land within the subdivision and on abutting property within
three hundred fifty feet (350') of the property within the proposed preliminary
plat.
         c.   Wetlands from the national wetlands inventory and professionally
delineated wetlands on the subject property.
         d.   Total acreage of the existing and proposed parcel and acreages of
any wetlands therein.
         e.   Location, width, and name of every existing or previously platted
street or private easement (either of record or any possible prescriptive
easements), showing type, width and condition of improvements, railroad and
utility rights of way, parks and other public open spaces, permanent buildings
and structures, section lines and corporate boundaries within the proposed
subdivision and within a distance of three hundred fifty feet (350') of said
proposed subdivision. If the proposed subdivision gains access to a public
street via a private easement, the entire easement until it intersects with a
public right of way shall be depicted on the preliminary plat even if this
extends beyond three hundred fifty feet (350').
         f.   If the proposed subdivision is a rearrangement or replat of any
former plat or portion thereof, the lot and block arrangement of the original
plat, along with its original name, shall be indicated by dotted or dashed
lines. Also, any revised or vacated roadways of the original plat shall be so
indicated.
         g.   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, storm sewer
mains, or other underground facilities within the proposed subdivision and to a
distance of one hundred feet (100') beyond shall also be indicated.
         h.   Boundary lines of unplatted lands within three hundred fifty feet
(350'), identified by record owner's name, shall be indicated.
         i.   Existing drainage patterns both within the property and current
drainage patterns showing run on and runoff from the land.
         j.   The contour line denoting land classified as flood zone A or land
below the known 100-year stormwater elevation.
      3.   Subdivision Design Features:
         a.   Locations and widths of pedestrianways and utility easements.
         b.   Minimum front and side building setback lines as required by the
zoning ordinance.
         c.   An inset showing utility easements for five foot (5') side lot
and ten foot (10') front.
      4.   Other Required Information: The following information shall be filed
with or included on the proposed preliminary plat:
         a.   A complete topographic map, at a scale no greater than one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), with contour intervals not greater than
two feet (2'), showing watercourses, wetlands, rock outcrops, and other
significant features. Due to known high groundwater elevations, contour
intervals of not greater than one foot (1') shall be required for applications
within Section 6, Township 133N-Range 28W; Section 1, Township 133N-Range 29W
and Section 31, Township 134N-Range 28W. At least one print of the preliminary
plat shall be superimposed on a copy of the topographic map. USGS datum shall
be used for all topographic mapping.
         b.   Soil absorption (percolation) tests where disposal fields are
proposed for more than one dwelling unit and any other subsoil information
requested by the city engineer.
         c.   Plans for water supply, sewage disposal, stormwater drainage
system, including proposed location, size, and gradient of proposed sewer lines
and water mains, and such other supporting data as may be required by the city
engineer or the planning and zoning administrator.
         d.   Current professional delineation of all wetlands within the plat.
         e.   If any part of said plat is within a shore land district, such
part of the plat shall show the elevation line of the shore land district
boundary, ordinary high water mark and any bluffs.
         f.   If applicable, show the contour line of any land within a
floodplain or, if the elevations for said land are not known, note accordingly.
         g.   Any additional information required by the planning and zoning
administrator, the planning and zoning commission, or city staff members called
upon to render opinions on any part of the proposed preliminary plat. (Ord.
2014-02, 2-18-2014)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: General Requirements
11-4-2: Streets
11-4-3: Alleys
11-4-4: Easements And Conveyances
11-4-5: Blocks
11-4-6: Lots
11-4-7: Park Dedication
11-4-8: Drainage
11-4-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The planning and zoning commission and the council, in their review of
the preliminary plat, will consider:
      1.   The requirements of the community,
      2.   The best use of the land being subdivided,
      3.   The size and arrangement of the proposed lots,
      4.   Open space requirements,
      5.   Traffic flows, and
      6.   How the subdivision may aid in extension of city utilities for
sewage handling and fire protection into the proposed subdivision and beyond.
   B.   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the comprehensive plan, all
official maps, and the zoning ordinance.
   C.   The arrangements, character, extent, width, and location of all streets
shall be considered in their relation to:
      1.   Existing and planned streets, for the reasonable circulation of
traffic,
      2.   Topographic conditions,
      3.   Water supply and sewage disposal for the proposed subdivision,
      4.   The drainage plan for stormwater,
      5.   Public convenience and safety, and
      6.   Their appropriate relation to proposed use of the land to be served
by such streets.
   D.   Wherever possible and necessary, the arrangement of streets in new
subdivisions shall provide for the continuation of existing streets in
adjoining areas.
   E.   Where adjoining unsubdivided areas may be subdivided, the arrangement
of streets in a new subdivision shall make provision for the proper projection
of streets into adjoining areas by carrying the new streets to the boundaries
of the new subdivision at appropriate locations. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-4-2: STREETS:
   A.   Widths: Street right of way widths shall be as shown on the
comprehensive plan and where not shown thereon, shall not be less than as
follows:
                                   Right Of  Bituminous
                                   Way Width Surface Width
Principal arterial                 120 feet  Variable
Minor arterial                     120 feet  44 feet
Rural major/urban collector        80 feet   44 feet
Rural minor collector              80 feet   44 feet
Local street                       80 feet   26 feet
Street in industrial district      80 feet   44 feet
Street in commercial district      80 feet   44 feet
Street with trail                  80 feet   26 feet
Cul-de-sac radius                  80 feet   60 feet
Private streets within PUD or plat 40 feet   26 feet
 
In the sole discretion of the city, a reduction in right of way may be granted
if the proposed development abuts existing development with less right of way
or if it is a replat of a previously platted development.
   B.   Intersections: Insofar as practical, streets shall intersect at right
angles. In no case shall the angle formed by the intersection of two (2)
streets be less than sixty degrees (60°). Intersections having more than four
(4) corners shall be prohibited, unless they all intersect into a roundabout.
Adequate land for known future intersection and exchange construction needs
shall be provided for.
   C.   Deflections: When connecting street lines deflect from each other at
one point by more than ten degrees (10°), they shall be connected by a curve
with a radius adequate to ensure a sight distance of not less than five hundred
feet (500') for arterials, three hundred feet (300') for collectors, and one
hundred feet (100') for all other streets. The council may allow greater or
lesser sight distances at the recommendation of the city engineer.
   D.   Centerline Gradients: All centerline gradients shall be at least 0.5
percent and shall not exceed the following:
      1.   Arterial streets and collector streets: Four percent (4%).
      2.   All other streets: Six percent (6%).
   E.   Vertical Curves: Different connecting street gradients shall be
connected with vertical curves. Minimum length in feet of these curves shall be
thirty (30) times the algebraic difference in the percent of grade of the two
(2) different slopes.
   F.   Street Jogs: Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided.
   G.   Local Streets: Local streets shall be designed so that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
   H.   Access To Arterials And Collectors: In the case where the proposed plat
is adjacent to any limited or controlled access state or county roadways, there
shall be no direct vehicular or pedestrian access from individual lots to such
arterials without written approval of the road authority. As a general
requirement, access to arterials shall be at intervals of not less than one-
fourth (1/4) mile and via existing and established crossroads where possible.
The city may require controlled access designation of various segments of city
arterial and collector streets if alternative access exists and there are
traffic safety concerns.
   I.   Temporary Entrance Permit: In the platting of small tracts of land
fronting on limited or controlled access roadways in the city, where there is
no convenient access to existing or planned entrances and where access from
such plat would be closer than one-fourth (1/4) mile from an existing or
planned access point, a temporary entrance permit may be granted by the city.
Provision shall be made in such plats for the connection of roads to
neighboring land. As the neighboring land is platted and developed, and access
becomes possible at the preferred location (in the sole determination by the
city council), such temporary entrance permits shall become null and void and
reconstruction of the disturbed area shall be done to the satisfaction of the
city public works director.
   J.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where it will be
practical to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided; in which case the dedication of a half street may be
permitted. The probable length of time elapsing before dedication of the
remainder of said street shall be considered in this decision. In this
circumstance a "half street" shall require a minimum of forty feet (40') of
right of way until the other half street is acquired. No building permits shall
be issued for a building located on a lot fronting on a half street.
   K.   Hardship To Owners Of Adjacent Property: The street arrangements within
such proposed plat shall not be such as to cause hardship to owners of
adjoining property in platting their own land and providing convenient access
to it.
   L.   Dedication And/Or Private Streets: All proposed public streets shown on
the plat shall be dedicated to the public on the plat. If accepted by the city,
private easements may be allowed in lieu of public streets. In these cases,
however, the easements shall be depicted on the plat and a maintenance
agreement binding all lots served by said easement shall be approved by the
city and recorded with the plat.
   M.   Ditches: All streets without storm sewers shall have a minimum of two
foot (2') ditches measured below the driving surface which shall not be filled
at any time thereafter.
   N.   Storm Sewer: Streets in industrial, commercial and multi- family
districts shall include storm sewers with standard curb and gutter design.
   O.   Private Drives: Any proposed subdivision that does not access the plat
by a dedicated public right of way shall comply with the following provisions:
      1.   Any easement that provides access from the subdivision to a public
right of way must be at least forty feet (40') in width and at least twenty six
feet (26') of this right of way must be bituminous.
      2.   The applicant of the proposed subdivision must present a certificate
of survey by a licensed surveyor depicting said easement.
      3.   Said easement must be of record.
      4.   If the easement crosses lands not owned by the applicant of the
proposed subdivision, covenants or agreements of record must define the
maintenance obligations of the easement area.
      5.   The public right of way that serves said easement must be within the
city limits of Baxter.
      6.   The easement shall not have any turns or dead ends that prevent fire
or other emergency vehicles from servicing all homeowners within the proposed
subdivision.
      7.   These provisions apply to a lot split otherwise exempt from the
subdivision's rules pursuant to section
11-2-1 of this title.
      8.   This section shall not apply to easements constructed prior to the
passage date hereof as long as the easement roadway is bituminous. (Ord. 2014-
02, 2-18-2014)
11-4-3: ALLEYS:
No public alleys shall be allowed within the city. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-4-4: EASEMENTS AND CONVEYANCES:
   A.   Utilities: Easements at least ten feet (10') wide, centered on rear and
other lot lines shall be provided for utilities; except no such easement shall
be required adjacent to waterfront in shore land districts. Lots on plat
boundaries shall have a ten foot (10') easement. Easements shall have a
continuity of alignment from block to block and at deflection points. An
easement for a pole line anchor shall be provided where necessary.
   B.   Drainage: Easements shall be provided along each side of the centerline
of any waterway or drainage channel, whether or not shown on the comprehensive
plan, of a sufficient width to provide proper maintenance and protection, and
to provide for stormwater runoff and installation and maintenance of drainage
systems. Where necessary, drainage easements corresponding with lot lines shall
be provided. Easements for drainage purposes shall not be less than twenty feet
(20') in width, except they need not be over ten feet (10') in width adjacent
to a street. Points of collection shall be provided on curb and gutter streets
at appropriate intervals. Stormwater ponding areas, including ditch bottoms,
shall be provided by the subdivider to handle the runoff stormwater computed
for a 100-year, 24-hour stormwater analysis.
   C.   Dedication: All easements shall be dedicated for the required uses by
appropriate language on the plat as required by Minnesota statutes section
505.03. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-4-5: BLOCKS:
   A.   Length: Blocks over nine hundred feet (900') long may require
pedestrianways, thirty feet (30') in width, at the approximate center of such
block. Additional pedestrianways to schools, parks, and other destinations may
be required.
   B.   Arrangement: A block shall be so designated as to provide two (2) tiers
of lots unless it adjoins a railroad, is along waterfront, is along an arterial
as a backage road, or is along the boundary of the proposed plat, where it may
have a single tier of lots. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-4-6: LOTS:
   A.   Location: All lots shall abut on a publicly dedicated street.
   B.   Size: The lot dimensions and areas shall comply with the requirements
specified in this title and in the Zoning Ordinance.
   C.   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles
to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   D.   Watercourses: Lots abutting upon a waterway, drainage channel, wetland,
or stream shall be of sufficient size to provide an area of land above the OHWM
equal to or greater than the minimum lot dimensions specified in the Zoning
Ordinance for the zoning district in which such lots are located. The dedicated
area for such watercourses shall not be counted toward the minimum lot size of
such lots.
   E.   Natural Features: In the subdividing of any land, every effort shall be
made to preserve and protect all natural features, such as natural
watercourses, wetlands, historic spots, or similar conditions.
   F.   Lot Remnants: All remnants of lots below minimum size remaining after
subdividing of a larger tract shall be platted as an outlot.
   G.   Double And Reverse Frontage Lots: Double frontage and reverse frontage
lots (often referred to as fronting onto a backage road) shall not be permitted
except where lots back on an arterial street; or where covenants are recorded
to preclude access to both streets. Such lots shall have an additional depth of
at least ten feet (10') in order to allow for screening along that part of the
lot adjoining the nonaccessible street.
   H.   Outlot: An outlot shall be deemed as a nondevelopable parcel until
replatted through the provisions of this title.
   I.   Rear Lot Widths: Minimum rear lot widths shall have a minimum width of
thirty feet (30'), measured thirty feet (30') from the rear of the house.
   J.   Corner Lots: All corner lots shall have an additional twenty feet (20')
of width.
   K.   Front Lot Line: The minimum front lot line along any cul-de- sac or
along the outside curve of any street shall be fifty feet (50') and the width
of said lot at the front setback line shall be seventy five feet (75').
   L.   Front Yards: All lots shall have the proposed front yard shown on the
proposed preliminary plat map.
   M.   Utility Triangle: All corner lots at intersecting streets shall plat
utility triangles. Utility triangles are triangle shaped areas located at the
intersection of any combination of rights-of-way. Utility triangles are
measured from where both street rights-of-way intersect and are generally
described as beginning at the intersection of the right-of-way of two (2)
intersecting streets, thence thirty feet (30') along the right- of-way line,
thence diagonally to a point thirty feet (30') from the point of beginning
along the other right-of-way line. In the sole discretion of the City, this
requirement may be waived if it is determined that the utility triangle is not
necessary for the placement of water and sewer utilities. (Ord. 2019-001, 3-19-
2019)
11-4-7: PARK DEDICATION:
   A.   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   Because the subdivision of land results in additional development in
the community, and thus causes additional demand upon the recreational park
facilities located therein, the subdivider shall dedicate lands for park
purposes or pay a park dedication fee as hereinafter determined.
      2.   Because the current status of the park and recreational system for
the City, and particularly the amount of undeveloped park land, the need for
additional lands for parks does not necessarily coincide with the areas being
subdivided. Consequently, the Council has determined that contributions by
subdividers to the development of recreational park facilities should be
primarily by payment of park dedication fees rather than land dedication.
      3.   Park dedication fees shall be deposited in the Special Park Fund and
be used solely for the purchase of park lands or improvements of parks,
playgrounds, community centers, or other recreational facilities in accordance
with the park and recreational segment of the City's comprehensive plan. The
Park Advisory Board shall make a recommendation to the City Council as to the
location of any sites or facilities to be purchased with such park dedication
fees in said Special Park Fund.
      4.   Whenever any land in the City is subdivided by any process,
including, but not limited to, subdivision under this title, by a registered
land survey, or whenever any land within the City is to be built upon where no
previous park fee was paid, the policy of the City is to require dedication for
park land and facilities in accordance with the policies detailed herein. If
property which was subject to a park dedication fee or dedication of land
computed on the basis of a use that is not constructed is to be subsequently
developed with uses that would require an additional fee or dedication of
additional land, there shall be a credit for the amount previously paid or
dedicated.
      5.   If a subdivision proposed dedication of land for park use, which the
city council finds is not needed, is not suitable for the intended use, or is
too small for practical maintenance, the city council may reject such
dedication and require cash payment in lieu thereof.
      6.   If a required public right of way exceeds eighty feet (80') in
width, such extra width of right of way shall not be included in the gross area
of the subdivision for purposes of park dedication. Whenever a parcel of land
is subdivided into lots containing one or more acres per lot, and such lots may
eventually be subdivided into smaller lots, the city council may require that
such parcel of land be divided so as to allow for construction of bike/walk
paths or trails. Easements providing for the future opening and extension of
such path or trail may be made a requirement of the plat. The water surface
area of required holding ponds shall not be included in the gross area of the
subdivision for purposes of park dedication.
      7.   Where a proposed park site is shown on the future land use plan of
the city and is located in whole or in part in the area being subdivided, the
subdivider shall delineate such land on the preliminary subdivision plat. Land
in excess of the land required to be dedicated by the developer as part of the
subdivision approval. Land in excess of that required or agreed to be
dedicated, shall be differentiated by symbol on the preliminary plat from the
land to be dedicated. The acquisition of such additional land, other than
required public rights of way, may be acquired by the city at the cost of
unimproved land at the time of final plat approval, plus assessments made
mandatory as a condition of the approval of said final plat. Land reserved in
excess of the amount of land required or agreed to be dedicated shall be
reserved for acquisition by the city for two (2) years from the date of
approval of the final subdivision plat. The city may waive this requirement if
it does not plan to acquire the land within the year.
   B.   Determination Of Land To Be Dedicated Or Park Dedication Fees To Be
Paid:
      1.   All subdivisions of land within the corporate limits of the city of
Baxter hereafter submitted for approval shall fully comply in all respects with
the regulations set forth herein. Plans for all commercial and industrial
developments shall be presented in the same manner as a subdivision. Plans for
planned unit developments for housing, commercial, industrial or other uses or
for any combination of uses designed for sale or rental purposes shall be
presented in the same manner as subdivisions for the review by the planning and
zoning commission and the approval of the city council.
   C.   Land Amount: The amount of land required to be dedicated by a developer
shall be based on the gross area included in the subdivision, which would be
developed for residential, commercial, or industrial purposes and shall be
determined by the following formula:
 
Commercial/industrial/PUD/office 5 percent
Residential                      10 percent
 
This subsection and subsection D of this section shall apply to all new
development, redevelopment, lot combination/redivisions meant to facilitate
development, and expansion of residential or commercial/industrial/business
use. It shall not apply to lot combination/redivisions which do not increase
the number of single-family residential or commercial lots or units, conversion
of apartments to condominiums, or internal leasehold improvements. In other
words, if a plat is presented with an existing house or business, the new lot
or lots containing the existing house or business shall be exempted from the
park dedication requirements but a fee shall be due if there is an increase in
the number of homes, units or businesses within the platted area.
   D.   Fee: If, in the judgment of the city council, the area proposed to be
dedicated is not suitable or desirable for public use because of location, size
or other reasons, the city council may require that the subdivider contribute
an amount in cash according to the following fee schedule:
 
Single dwelling              Per adopted fee schedule
Double or multiple dwellings Per adopted fee schedule
Commercial/industrial/office Per adopted fee schedule
 
If any of the fees set forth hereinabove are determined by any court to be
invalid for any reason whatsoever, the park dedication fee shall then be the
fair market value of the land to be subdivided. For the purposes of this
section, "fair market value" means a price that a willing buyer would pay and a
willing seller would accept for the property at the time of acceptance of the
final plat including, but not limited to, zoning, public and subdivider
improvements or other factors as determined by the county assessor but
excluding any buildings or structures located thereon.
For the purposes of this entire park dedication section, "commercial" or
"business" shall mean C1 and C2 districts, "industrial" shall mean I districts,
"office" shall mean OS districts and "residential" shall mean RR, RS, R-1, R-
1A, R-2 and R-3 districts.
   E.   Credit For Private Open Space For Park Or Recreation Purposes: Where
private open space for park or recreation purposes is provided in a proposed
subdivision or development, and such space is to be privately owned and
maintained by the future residents of the subdivision or owners of the
development, a credit for park dedication may be given. A credit of up to fifty
percent (50%) of the requirements for residential park dedication may be given;
and credit for partial or full park dedication may be given to commercial or
industrial developments, provided that the following conditions are met:
      1.   Such land area is not occupied by nonrecreational buildings and is
available for the use by all the residents of the proposed subdivision or
development.
      2.   Required setbacks shall not be included in the computation of such
private open space.
      3.   The use of the private open space is restricted for park and
recreational purposes by recorded covenants which run with the land in favor of
the future owners of the property within the tract and which cannot be defeated
or eliminated without the consent of the city council.
      4.   Where practical, public and private open space for park or
recreation purposes should be complementary to one another and the use of
private facilities (such as bike trails) should be available to the public.
(Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014; amd. Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019)
11-4-8: DRAINAGE:
The natural drainage shall be used as far as is feasible for the storage and
flow of stormwater runoff. The design of any drainage system or stormwater
conveyance shall conform to title 8, chapter 5 of this code. These additional
requirements shall also apply:
   A.   No existing ditch, stream, drain channel or other stormwater conveyance
shall be altered without written permission from the city.
   B.   If possible, any necessary drainage ditches should be constructed in a
manner to also serve recreational trail use.
   C.   The front setback line of every lot shall be within four feet (4') in
elevation of the centerline of the nearest street unless specifically allowed
by the planning and zoning administrator.
   D.   Every lot shall be developed so that it retains the stormwater runoff
of a 100-year rain event as determined in a 100-year stormwater elevation study
if said lot is not served by storm sewer or some other city maintained
stormwater drainage system. If a lot is so served by some city maintained
stormwater drainage system it shall retain the stormwater runoff of a 5-year
rain event. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Improvements
11-5-2: Payment For Installation Of Improvements
11-5-3: Required Agreement Providing For Installation Of Improvements
11-5-4: Financial Guarantee
11-5-5: Construction Plans
11-5-1: IMPROVEMENTS:
Upon approval and before building permits are issued, the subdivider shall have
executed a development agreement bonding for installation, in conformity with
utility design standards approved by the city engineer and in conformity with
all applicable standards and ordinances of the city, the following improvements
on the site:
   A.   Monument: Monuments of a permanent character, as required by Minnesota
statutes section 505.021, shall be placed at all angle and curve points on the
outside boundary lines of the plat and also at all block corners and at all
intermediate points on the block lines indicating changes of direction in the
lines. Pipes or steel rods shall be placed at each corner of each lot and each
intersection of street centerlines.
   B.   Streets: The full width of the right of way of each street dedicated in
the plat shall be graded; and in the event adjacent street rights of way must
be connected, they shall also be graded to match. All streets shall have an
adequate subbase and shall be constructed in accordance with the design
standards filed in the office of the city. Except for areas platted for rural
development with large lots, as specified in the zoning ordinance, all streets
shall be provided with an impervious surface of bituminous pavement.
   C.   Potable Water Supply: Water mains shall be provided to serve the
subdivision by extension of an existing community system, as approved by the
public works director. Service connections shall be stubbed out to the property
line of each lot, and fire hydrants shall be provided as required by the city
designated fire chief. All parts of said potable water system shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with the current standards for the city. In areas
platted for neighborhood commercial (C1) or single-family residential (R-1, RR
or RS) development with large lots or clustered subdivisions (as noted in the
zoning ordinance), and without connection to a community system, lots shall
have wells for individual lots or lot groupings as approved by the planning and
zoning administrator. Layout design shall plan for hookup to future city
potable water system mains.
   D.   Sewage Disposal: Sanitary sewer mains and service connections shall be
installed to serve all lots in the subdivision and shall be connected with the
city sewer system, as approved by the public works director. In areas being
platted without immediate connection to the city's sewer system, for
neighborhood commercial (C1) or single-family residential (R-1, RR or RS)
development with large lots or clustered subdivisions (as noted in the zoning
ordinance) shall conform to the standards outlined in the zoning ordinance.
Plans for individual or clustered lot systems shall be submitted for approval
of the planning and zoning administrator; and percolation test results shall be
provided when required.
      1.   The city council finds that the use of private potable water and
private sewer systems within the commercial, industrial, and multiple-family
zoning districts of the city creates potentially serious health and safety
hazards. The city council also finds that scattered development in these same
zoning districts causes a burden upon the taxpayers of the city, creates fiscal
and engineering problems in the installation of improvements and utilities,
causes financial burdens upon the city for police protection, street and
utility maintenance, fire protection and snow removal, disrupts orderly
planning and stable growth and reduces community cohesion. For these reasons,
the city council has adopted regulations in this title that particularly apply
to the subdivision of land within all the zoning districts in the city of
Baxter:
         a.   Developers subdividing land without municipal potable water,
sanitary sewer, street and storm drainage improvements being provided, shall
submit a proposed development plan illustrating future division and future
right of way designation on the basis of the minimum lot size requirement for
the land's zoning designation to provide for future municipal services unless
the city council determines the extension of services to be more than twenty
(20) years from the date of application.
         b.   Restrictive covenants shall be recorded in the office of the Crow
Wing County recorder, together with the plat proposed and approved as herein
provided, including whereby developer agrees to install municipal sewer and
water within a time period set by the city council after municipal sewer and
potable water are available.
   E.   Drainage: A stormwater drainage system conforming to the provisions of
section
11-4-8 of this title, as approved by the city engineer, shall be provided.
   F.   Street Signs: Street signs of standard design for the city shall be
installed by the city at the subdivider's expense at each street intersection.
   G.   Utilities: All utility lines for electrical service, natural gas
service, and communication services, shall be placed underground, if feasible,
in the street right of way or designated utility easements, unless an
alternative plan is developed between the city and any utility providers. (Ord.
2014-02, 2-18-2014; amd. Ord. 2019-010, 7-16-2019)
11-5-2: PAYMENT FOR INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
The required improvements, as listed and described above, are to be furnished
and installed at the sole expense of the subdivider and at no expense to the
city. However, in the case of an improvement which would, by general policy of
the city, be assessed only in part to the improved property and the remaining
cost paid by the city, the council may make a provision for payment of a
portion of the cost by the subdivider and the remaining portion of the cost by
the city. If any improvement installed within the subdivision will be of
benefit to lands beyond the boundaries of the subdivision, the council may make
provision for causing a portion of the cost of the improvement representing the
benefit to such other lands, to be assessed against those other lands; and in
such case, the subdivider will be required only to pay for such portion of the
entire cost of said improvements which represent the benefit to the property
within the subdivision. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-5-3: REQUIRED AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Prior to installation of any required improvements and prior to approval of the
final plat, the subdivider shall enter into a written development agreement
with the city in a form as approved by the city attorney. The development
agreement will outline the financial guarantee required, as well as the terms
of development. Developers have three (3) options for installation of city
utilities (listed below) that provide for public and private installation of
improvements. With options in subsections A and B of this section, the time for
initiation and completion of work shall be determined by the city upon
recommendation of the city engineer. The city reserves the authority to
correlate the work with any other city work being done or contracted. With
options in subsections A, B, and C of this section, the city will charge an
administrative fee, at the current established rate for such purposes, to
defray administrative costs.
   A.   Developer Petitioned: The developer petitions the city to install the
utilities. The developer and all involved property owners sign a one hundred
percent (100%) petition for the improvements. The developer escrows with the
city the estimated engineering costs for a feasibility study. A public hearing
may be required if additional city improvements are necessary or other
properties are affected. The city will assess all concerned properties to
recoup project costs together with engineering, inspection, legal, and
administrative costs. The city may limit the amount of funds for such projects
pursuant to a bonded debt policy. The city has the ultimate discretion on
whether to accept the petition for this option.
   B.   Developer Petitioned And Paid: The developer petitions the city to
install the improvements and agrees to pay all costs upon completion of project
activities. The developer shall provide an escrow or a letter of credit equal
to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of project costs. The city shall be
entitled to draw upon that escrow or letter of credit as the project proceeds.
Once the project is completed and paid for, and the improvements are accepted
and warranted for an additional year, the letter of credit shall be canceled or
the balance in escrow shall be returned.
   C.   Developer Installed: The developer shall provide the city with a
feasibility study for the project. If said study is approved, the developer
shall provide surety in the form of a cash escrow or a letter of credit which
equals one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the project cost in a form to
be preapproved by the city attorney. If one hundred twenty five percent (125%)
of the project cost is over three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00), a
performance bond shall be required in lieu of a cash escrow or letter of credit
at the same amount and as prescribed by Minnesota statutes. The performance
bond shall be approved by the city attorney prior to its acceptance. Developer
shall provide complete construction plans for said project, which shall be
approved by the city engineer as to form, city specifications, and engineer's
estimate of project cost. Developer shall utilize the city engineer for
construction staking, inspection and for record drawings. Developer shall
deposit an engineering and administrative escrow with the city that equals
twenty percent (20%) of the project costs. Developer shall have its own
contractor to do the work. Upon completion and acceptance, the developer shall
provide a one year warranty bond and an administrative fee which equals five
percent (5%) of the project costs; whereupon the city shall release the project
surety. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-5-4: FINANCIAL GUARANTEE:
The development agreement described in section
11-5-3 of this chapter, shall require the developer, at the option of the city,
to deposit cash in escrow, furnish a performance bond, or file a letter of
credit to ensure payment of the total cost of the required improvements. The
total cost of the required improvements shall be estimated by the developer and
approved by the city engineer; said estimate shall include, but not be limited
to, the following costs: the cost of construction or installation; engineering;
preparation of feasibility report; preparation of plans and specifications;
inspection; legal services; right of way acquisition; construction interest;
and related administrative costs. The city shall be entitled to reimbursement
from the financial guarantee for the cost of the required improvements, for any
expense incurred by the city to cause completion of the work, and payment
therefor, in the event of subdivider default of the development agreement, and
for any damages or legal costs, including reasonable attorney fees, sustained
by the city on account of any breach thereof. Upon completion of the work and
termination of any subdivider liability under the development agreement, the
financial guarantee or any cash balance and interest earnings retained by the
city shall be refunded to the subdivider. In the event the cost of the required
improvements or any part thereof are assessed, the financial guarantee may be
retained by the city until such time as the subdivider has completed its
obligations under the development agreement. Financial guarantees shall be
provided by the subdivider as follows:
   A.   Improvements Not Assessed: A one year warranty, acceptable to the city
on the improvements made; and the escrow or letter of credit (or subdivision
bond) per subsection 11-5-3B or C of this chapter.
   B.   Improvements Assessed: If the city consents to assess the costs of the
required improvements against the subdivider's property, the city may require
the subdivider to deposit cash in escrow, or an irrevocable letter of credit
with the city in an amount equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of
the total cost of the required improvements to subdivider's property. The
subdivider shall also agree, in the developer's agreement, to pay at the time
of sale of each lot the respective special assessments levied against each such
lot sold within the subdivision or to pay into escrow one hundred twenty five
percent (125%) of any pending special assessments against each lot sold within
the subdivision. At completion of subdivision, and total reimbursement to the
city of any such special assessments, any remaining funds shall be returned to
the developer or a letter of credit shall be terminated.
The city council will not accept dedication of the required improvements or
release the financial guarantees until the city engineer has submitted a
statement that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed and
the treasurer indicates all payments have been made. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-5-5: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
Construction plans for the required improvements, conforming in all respects to
the standards and ordinances of the city, shall be prepared or reviewed by the
city engineer. For projects not assessed, payment for such plans and
specifications, feasibility reports, review of the same, together with the
inspection of the work by the city engineer and administrative costs, shall be
the sole responsibility of the subdivider. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
CHAPTER 6
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-6-1: Planned Unit Development (PUD)
11-6-2: Variance
11-6-3: Registered Land Survey
11-6-4: Building Permits
11-6-5: Administrative Fees
11-6-6: Violations And Penalties
11-6-1: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD):
In recognition of changing trends, techniques, and materials in the process of
urban development, the council and the planning and zoning commission may
permit planned unit developments (PUD) in compliance with title 10, chapter 3,
article M of this code. Applications for any such planned unit development
shall be made in writing by the subdivider at the time the preliminary plat is
filed for consideration by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2014-02,
2-18-2014)
11-6-2: VARIANCE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide for variations from
the literal provisions of this title in instances where strict enforcement
would cause practical difficulties because of conditions affecting the
individual property under consideration, and to grant such variances only when
it is demonstrated that such actions would be in keeping with the spirit and
intent of this title.
   B.   Review Criteria: The council shall not approve a variance unless they
find that failure to grant the variance will result in practical difficulties
to the applicant, as defined by Minnesota statutes 462.357. The burden of proof
is on the applicant to show that all of the following criteria have been met:
      1.   That there are practical difficulties in complying with the zoning
ordinance.
      2.   That the conditions upon which a petition for a variation is based
are unique to the parcel of land for which the variance is sought and were not
created by the landowner.
      3.   That the granting of the variation will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
      4.   The proposed variance would be in harmony with the general purposes
and intent of the ordinance.
      5.   The variance is consistent with the comprehensive plan.
      6.   The city may impose conditions on the variance to address the impact
of the variance.
   C.   Process: An application for a variance shall be approved or denied
pursuant to Minnesota statutes 462.358. Additional city requirements are as
follows:
      1.   Requests for a variance to the provisions of this title shall be
filed with the planning and zoning administrator on an official application
form. Such variance application shall be considered simultaneously with an
application for subdivision approval. A fee as set forth by this code shall
accompany such application.
   D.   Expiration: A variance approved under this section shall expire without
further action by the planning commission or the council, at such time as the
related subdivision approval expires. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-6-3: REGISTERED LAND SURVEY:
   A.   Surveys: It is the intent of this title that all land surveys in the
city, including a split or subdivision of an existing tract or lot, shall first
be presented to the planning and zoning commission in the form of a preliminary
plat to be processed in accordance with the standards set forth in this title
for preliminary plats. All surveys shall be done by a registered land surveyor.
Tracts or easements to be used for public roads and utilities shall be deeded
to the city free and clear of taxes, assessments, and liens of whatever nature.
Unless the council has approved the land subdivision in accordance with the
standards set forth in this title, the city shall not issue building permits
for buildings on such nonapproved tracts. The council may refuse to accept and/
or to improve, repair, or maintain tracts for streets, roadways, and/or
easements unless so approved under this title.
   B.   Conveyance By Metes And Bounds:
      1.   No conveyance of land within the city shall be filed for record in
the office of the Crow Wing County recorder, if the land is described in the
conveyance by metes and bounds, or by reference to an unapproved registered
land survey made after April 21, 1961, or by reference to an unapproved plat
made after November 2, 1967. The foregoing provision does not apply to a
conveyance if the land described:
         a.   Was a separate parcel of record on January 19, 1982, or
         b.   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered into
prior to January 19, 1982, which agreement was recorded before January 1, 1985,
or
         c.   Is being conveyed to the city of Baxter, or
         d.   Is being conveyed to establish public right of way and said
purpose is so stated in the conveyance, or
         e.   Was a conforming lot of record prior to the adoption date hereof,
or
         f.   Is approved as an administrative subdivision as described in
section
11-2-5 of this title.
      2.   Any owner, subdivider, or agent thereof, who conveys a lot or parcel
in violation of the provisions of this section shall be subject to strict
enforcement of all penalties and enforcement measures available to the city
under section
11-6-6 of this chapter.
      3.   Pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapter 272, the county auditor will
not transfer any conveyance that subdivides a lot unless said conveyance is
accompanied by a certificate signed by the planning and zoning administrator
and stamped with the city seal indicating that the subdivision regulations set
forth above do not apply to the subdivision or that there has been full
compliance with said regulations. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-6-4: BUILDING PERMITS:
No building permits shall be issued for construction or alteration of any
building or structure on any parcel of land which is conveyed in violation of
the provisions set forth above. No building permits will be issued for the
construction of any building or structure on any lot in a subdivision which has
been approved for platting, until all requirements of this title, and any
development agreement entered into to carry out provisions of this title, have
been fully complied with. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-6-5: ADMINISTRATIVE FEES:
All permit fees, application fees, administrative fees, and other charges for
services under this title, shall be set in accordance with the latest current
fee schedule adopted by resolution of the council. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
11-6-6: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation of this title shall be a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not to exceed seven hundred dollars
($700.00) and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days for
each offense. Each day that the violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
   B.   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of this title,
the council, in addition to other remedies, may institute appropriate actions
or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate such violations and it
is the duty of the city attorney to institute such action.
   C.   Any taxpayer may institute mandamus proceedings in district court to
compel specific performance by the proper official or officials of any duty
required by this title. (Ord. 2014-02, 2-18-2014)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact And Purpose
12-1-2: General Provisions
12-1-3: Establishment Of Floodplain Districts
12-1-4: Requirements For All Floodplain Districts
12-1-5: Floodway District (FW)
12-1-6: Flood Fringe District (FF)
12-1-7: General Floodplain District (GF)
12-1-8: Subdivision Standards
12-1-9: Public Utilities, Railroads, Roads, And Bridges
12-1-10: Manufactured Homes And Recreational Vehicles
12-1-11: Administration
12-1-12: Nonconformities
12-1-13: Violations And Penalties
12-1-14: Amendments
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the State of Minnesota has,
in Minnesota Statutes chapter 103F and chapter 462 delegated the responsibility
to local government units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood
losses. Therefore, the City Council of Baxter, Minnesota, does ordain as
follows.
   B.   Purpose:
      1.   This chapter regulates development in the flood hazard areas of
Baxter. These flood hazard areas are subject to periodic inundation, which may
result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base. It is the purpose of
this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
minimizing these losses and disruptions.
      2.   This chapter is adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of
the National Flood Insurance Program codified as 44 Code of Federal Regulations
parts 59 - 78, as amended, so as to maintain the community's eligibility in the
National Flood Insurance Program.
      3.   This chapter is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development. (Ord. 2017-009, 7-18-2017)
12-1-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which Chapter Applies: This chapter applies to all lands
within the jurisdiction of Baxter within the boundaries of the Floodway, Flood
Fringe, or General Floodplain Districts. The boundaries of the zoning districts
are determined by scaling distances on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, or as
modified in accordance with subsection A2 of this section.
      1.   The Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts are
overlay districts that are superimposed on all existing zoning districts. The
standards imposed in the overlay districts are in addition to any other
requirements in this chapter. In case of a conflict, the more restrictive
standards will apply.
      2.   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits illustrated on
the official floodplain maps and actual field conditions, the flood elevations
shall be the governing factor in locating the regulatory floodplain limits.
      3.   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries will be
given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Planning Commission
and City Council and to submit technical evidence.
   B.   Incorporation Of Maps By Reference: The following maps together with
all attached material are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part
of the Official Zoning Map and this chapter. The attached material includes the
Flood Insurance Study for Crow Wing County, Minnesota, and Incorporated Areas,
dated August 15, 2017 and the Flood Insurance Rate Map panels enumerated below,
dated August 15, 2017, all prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
These materials are on file in the Zoning Administrator's Office.
27035C0395C
27035C0425C
27035C0505C
27035C0510C
27035C0515C
27035C0520C
27035C0526C
27035C0528C
27035C0529C
   C.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or other
private agreements. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this chapter prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with
this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   D.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: This chapter does not imply that
areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter does not
create liability on the part of Baxter or its officers or employees for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
   E.   Severability: If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of law, the
remainder of this chapter shall not be affected and shall remain in full force.
   F.   Definitions: Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used
in this chapter must be interpreted according to common usage and so as to give
this chapter its most reasonable application:
    ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation of the "regional flood". The term "base
flood elevation" is used in the flood insurance survey.
   BASEMENT: Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four (4) sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   CONDITIONAL USE: A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or Building Codes and upon a finding that:
      1.   Certain conditions as detailed in title 10 of this Code exist.
      2.   The structure and/or land use conform to the Comprehensive Land Use
Plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   CRITICAL FACILITIES: Facilities necessary to a community's public health and
safety, those that store or produce highly volatile, toxic or water-reactive
materials, and those that house occupants that may be insufficiently mobile to
avoid loss of life or injury. Examples of critical facilities include
hospitals, correctional facilities, schools, daycare facilities, nursing homes,
fire and police stations, wastewater treatment facilities, public electric
utilities, water plants, fuel storage facilities, and waste handling and
storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or
materials.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT: A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   FARM FENCE: A fence as defined by Minnesota Statutes section 344.02, subd. 1
(a) - (d). An open type fence of posts and wire is not considered to be a
structure under this chapter. Fences that have the potential to obstruct flood
flows, such as chain link fences and rigid walls, are regulated as structures
under this chapter.
   FLOOD: A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY: The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE: The portion of the special flood hazard area (1 percent annual
chance flood) located outside of the floodway. Flood fringe is synonymous with
the term "floodway fringe" used in the Flood Insurance Study for Crow Wing
County, Minnesota.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: An official map on which the Federal Insurance
Administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available
digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
   FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN: The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOODPROOFING: A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY: The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of 44 Code of Federal Regulations, part 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include the term "recreational vehicle".
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures, including additions and improvements, and
placement of manufactured homes, for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
   OBSTRUCTION: Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across, or projecting
into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory floodplain which may impede,
retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by
catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
   100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: Lands inundated by the "regional flood" (see
definition).
   PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE: All uses or structures that are not accessory
uses or structures.
   REACH: A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two (2) consecutive bridge
crossings would most typically constitute a reach.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is four
hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection, is designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck, and is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but
as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal
use. For the purposes of this chapter, the term recreational vehicle is
synonymous with the term "travel trailer/travel vehicle".
   REGIONAL FLOOD: A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the one
percent (1%) chance or 100-year recurrence interval. Regional flood is
synonymous with the term "base flood" used in a flood insurance study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE): An elevation not less than one
foot (1') above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
   REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: A term used for flood insurance purposes
synonymous with "100-year floodplain".
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement that occurred before the permit's expiration
date. The actual start is either the first placement of permanent construction
of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, recreational
vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in subsection 12-1-10B2
of this chapter and other similar items.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
where the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would
equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the "start of construction" of the improvement. This term
includes structures that have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the
actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or local Health, Sanitary, or Safety Code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      2.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure". For the purpose of this chapter, "historic structure" is
as defined in 44 Code of Federal Regulations, part 59.1.
   G.   Annexations: The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by reference
into subsection B of this section may include floodplain areas that lie outside
of the corporate boundaries of the City of Baxter at the time of adoption of
this chapter. If any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the City
of Baxter after the date of adoption of this chapter, the newly annexed
floodplain lands will be subject to the provisions of this chapter immediately
upon the date of annexation. (Ord. 2017-009, 7-18-2017)
12-1-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DISTRICTS:
   A.   Districts:
      1.   Floodway District: The Floodway District includes those areas within
Zones AE (that have a floodway delineated) as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map adopted in subsection 12-1-2B of this chapter. For lakes, wetlands and
other basins within Zones A or AE that do not have a floodway delineated, the
Floodway District also includes those areas that are at or below the ordinary
high water level as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 103G.005,
subdivision 14.
      2.   Flood Fringe District: The Flood Fringe District includes areas
within Zones AE (that have a floodway delineated) as shown on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map adopted in subsection 12-1-2B of this chapter, but located
outside of the floodway. For lakes, wetlands and other basins within Zones A or
AE that do not have a floodway delineated, the Flood Fringe District also
includes those areas below the one percent (1%) annual chance (100-year) flood
elevation but above the ordinary high water level as defined in Minnesota
Statutes, section 103G.005, subdivision 14.
      3.   General Floodplain District: Reserved. (Ord. 2017-009, 7-18-2017)
12-1-4: REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICTS:
   A.   Permit Required: A permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator to verify a development meets the standards outlined in this
chapter prior to conducting the following activities:
      1.   The erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation, or alteration
of any building, structure, or portion thereof. Normal maintenance and repair
also requires a permit if such work, separately or in conjunction with other
planned work, constitutes a substantial improvement as defined in this chapter.
      2.   The use or change of use of a building, structure, or land.
      3.   The construction of a dam, on-site septic system, or fence, although
a permit is not required for a farm fence as defined in this chapter.
      4.   The change or extension of a nonconforming use.
      5.   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire,
tornado, or any other source.
      6.   The placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage of
materials or equipment within the floodplain.
      7.   Relocation or alteration of a watercourse (including new or
replacement culverts and bridges), unless a public waters work permit has been
applied for.
      8.   Any other type of "development" as defined in this chapter.
   B.   Building Sites: If a proposed building site is in a flood prone area,
all new construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
manufactured homes) must be:
      1.   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage;
      3.   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage; and
      4.   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   C.   Flood Capacity: In no cases shall floodplain development adversely
affect the efficiency or unduly restrict the capacity of the channels or
floodways of any tributaries to the main stream, drainage ditches, or any other
drainage facilities or systems.
   D.   Storage Or Processing Of Materials: The storage or processing of
materials that are, in time of flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially
injurious to human, animal, or plant life is prohibited.
   E.   Critical Facilities: Critical facilities, as defined in subsection 12-
1-2F of this chapter, are prohibited in all floodplain districts. (Ord. 2017-
009, 7-18-2017)
12-1-5: FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW):
   A.   Permitted Uses: The following uses, subject to the standards set forth
in subsection B of this section, are permitted uses if otherwise allowed in the
underlying zoning district or any applicable overlay district:
      1.   General farming, pasture, grazing, farm fences, outdoor plant
nurseries, horticulture, forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting.
      2.   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas, and airport
landing strips.
      3.   Open space uses, including but not limited to private and public
golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds,
boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves,
game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves, hunting and fishing areas, and
single or multiple purpose recreational trails.
      4.   Residential yards, lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas.
      5.   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and
pipelines, provided that the Department of Natural Resources' area hydrologist
is notified at least ten (10) days prior to issuance of any permit.
   B.   Standards For Floodway Permitted Uses:
      1.   The use must have a low flood damage potential.
      2.   The use must not obstruct flood flows or cause any increase in flood
elevations and must not involve structures, obstructions, or storage of
materials or equipment.
      3.   Any facility that will be used by employees or the general public
must be designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for
evacuation if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth
(in feet) multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a
product of four (4) upon occurrence of the regional (1 percent chance) flood.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses may be allowed as conditional uses
following the standards and procedures set forth in subsection 12-1-11D of this
chapter and further subject to the standards set forth in subsection D of this
section, if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning district or any
applicable overlay district.
      1.   Structures accessory to the uses listed in subsections A1 through A3
of this section and the uses listed in subsections C2 and C3 of this section.
      2.   Extraction, fill and storage of soil, sand, gravel, and other
materials.
      3.   Marinas, boat rentals, permanent docks, piers, wharves, and water
control structures.
      4.   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials.
      5.   Construction of fences that obstruct flood flows. Farm fences, as
defined in subsection 12-1-2F of this chapter, are permitted uses.
      6.   Travel-ready recreational vehicles meeting the exception standards
in subsection 12-1-10B2 of this chapter.
      7.   Levees or dikes intended to protect agricultural crops for a
frequency flood event equal to or less than the 10-year frequency flood event.
   D.   Standards For Floodway Conditional Uses:
      1.   All Uses: A conditional use must not cause any increase in the
regional flood elevations or cause an increase in flood damages in the reach or
reaches affected.
      2.   Fill; Storage Of Materials And Equipment:
         a.   Fill, dredge spoil, and other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain must be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, riprap or other acceptable method. Permanent sand and gravel
operations and similar uses must be covered by a long-term site development
plan.
         b.   Temporary placement of fill, other materials, or equipment which
would cause an increase to the stage of the one percent (1%) chance or regional
flood may only be allowed if the City of Baxter has approved a plan that
assures removal of the materials from the floodway based upon the flood warning
time available.
      3.   Accessory Structures: Accessory structures, as identified in
subsection C1 of this section, may be permitted, provided that:
         a.   Structures are not intended for human habitation;
         b.   Structures will have a low flood damage potential;
         c.   Structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer a
minimal obstruction to the flow of flood waters;
         d.   Service utilities, such as electrical and heating equipment,
within these structures must be elevated to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation or properly floodproofed;
         e.   Structures must be elevated on fill or structurally dry
floodproofed in accordance with the FP1 or FP2 floodproofing classifications in
the State Building Code. All floodproofed structures must be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement and designed to
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
         f.   As an alternative, an accessory structure may be internally/wet
floodproofed to the FP3 or FP4 floodproofing classifications in the State
Building Code, provided the accessory structure constitutes a minimal
investment. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following criteria:
            (1)   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two (2) "automatic" openings in the outside walls of the
structure, with a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding; and
            (2)   There must be openings on at least two (2) sides of the
structure and the bottom of all openings must be no higher than one foot (1')
above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using human intervention to
open a garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy this requirement for
automatic openings.
      4.   Structural Works For Flood Control: Structural works for flood
control that will change the course, current or cross section of protected
wetlands or public waters are subject to the provisions of Minnesota Statutes,
section 103G.245.
      5.   Levee, Dike Or Floodwall: A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in
the floodway must not cause an increase to the one percent (1%) chance or
regional flood. The technical analysis must assume equal conveyance or storage
loss on both sides of a stream.
      6.   Hydraulic Capacity: Floodway developments must not adversely affect
the hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary
watercourse or drainage system. (Ord. 2017-009, 7-18-2017)
12-1-6: FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF):
   A.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses are those uses of land or structures
allowed in the underlying zoning district(s) that comply with the standards in
subsection B of this section. If no pre-existing, underlying zoning districts
exist, then any residential or nonresidential structure or use of a structure
or land is a permitted use provided it does not constitute a public nuisance.
   B.   Standards For Flood Fringe Permitted Uses:
      1.   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor, as defined, is at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for structures must be no
lower than one foot (1') below the regulatory flood protection elevation and
the fill must extend at the same elevation at least fifteen feet (15') beyond
the outside limits of the structure.
      2.   As an alternative to the fill requirements of subsection B1 of this
section, structures accessory to the uses identified in subsection A of this
section may be permitted to be internally/wet floodproofed to the FP3 or FP4
floodproofing classifications in the State Building Code, provided that:
         a.   The accessory structure constitutes a minimal investment, does
not exceed five hundred seventy six (576) square feet in size, and is only used
for parking and storage.
         b.   All portions of floodproofed accessory structures below the
regulatory flood protection elevation must be: 1) adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement and designed to equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls, 2) be constructed with materials
resistant to flood damage, and 3) must have all service utilities be water-
tight or elevated to above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         c.   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by
a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following criteria:
            (1)   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two (2) "automatic" openings in the outside walls of the
structure, with a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding; and
            (2)   There must be openings on at least two (2) sides of the
structure and the bottom of all openings must be no higher than one foot (1')
above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using human intervention to
open a garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy this requirement for
automatic openings.
      3.   The cumulative placement of fill or similar material on a parcel
must not exceed one thousand (1,000) cubic yards, unless the fill is
specifically intended to elevate a structure in accordance with subsection B1
of this section.
      4.   The storage of any materials or equipment must be elevated on fill
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      5.   All service utilities, including ductwork, must be elevated or
water-tight to prevent infiltration of floodwaters.
      6.   All fill must be properly compacted and the slopes must be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
      7.   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or above
an elevation not more than two feet (2') below the regulatory flood protection
elevation, or must have a flood warning/emergency evacuation plan acceptable to
the City of Baxter.
      8.   Accessory uses such as yards, railroad tracks, and parking lots may
be at an elevation lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation.
However, any facilities used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation
if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth (in feet)
multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a product of four
(4) upon occurrence of the regional (1 percent chance) flood.
      9.   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must meet the standards
of section
12-1-10 of this chapter.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses and activities may be allowed as
conditional uses, if allowed in the underlying zoning district(s) or any
applicable overlay district, following the procedures in subsection 12-1-11D of
this chapter.
      1.   Storage of any material or equipment below the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
      2.   The cumulative placement of more than one thousand (1,000) cubic
yards of fill when the fill is not being used to elevate a structure in
accordance with subsection B1 of this section.
   D.   Standards For Flood Fringe Conditional Uses:
      1.   The standards listed in subsections B4 through B9 of this section
apply to all conditional uses.
      2.   Residential basements, as defined by subsection 12-1-2F of this
chapter, are not allowed below the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      3.   All areas of nonresidential structures, including basements, to be
placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation must be structurally dry
floodproofed, meeting the FP1 or FP2 floodproofing classification in the State
Building Code, which requires making the structure watertight with the walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effects of buoyancy.
      4.   The placement of more than one thousand (1,000) cubic yards of fill
or other similar material on a parcel (other than for the purpose of elevating
a structure to the regulatory flood protection elevation) must comply with an
approved erosion/sedimentation control plan.
         a.   The plan must clearly specify methods to be used to stabilize the
fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the regional (1 percent chance)
flood event.
         b.   The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the City of
Baxter.
         c.   The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal of
the material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
      5.   Storage of materials and equipment below the regulatory flood
protection elevation must comply with an approved emergency plan providing for
removal of such materials within the time available after a flood warning.
(Ord. 2017-009, 7-18-2017)
12-1-7: GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT (GF):
Reserved. (Ord. 2017-009, 7-18-2017)
12-1-8: SUBDIVISION STANDARDS:
   A.   Subdivisions: No land may be subdivided which is unsuitable for reasons
of flooding or inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. Manufactured home parks and recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are considered subdivisions under this chapter.
      1.   All lots within the floodplain districts must be able to contain a
building site outside of the Floodway District at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
      2.   All subdivisions must have road access both to the subdivision and
to the individual building sites no lower than two feet (2') below the
regulatory flood protection elevation, unless a flood warning emergency plan
for the safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during the regional (1
percent chance) flood has been approved by the City of Baxter. The plan must be
prepared by a registered engineer or other qualified individual, and must
demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation.
      3.   For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the Floodway and Flood
Fringe District boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the
required elevation of all access roads must be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
      4.   In the General Floodplain District, applicants must provide the
information required in subsection 12-1-7B of this chapter to determine the
regional flood elevation, the Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries and
the regulatory flood protection elevation for the subdivision site.
      5.   Subdivision proposals must be reviewed to assure that:
         a.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood prone area,
         b.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage, and
         c.   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazard.
(Ord. 2017-009, 7-18-2017)
12-1-9: PUBLIC UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS, AND BRIDGES:
   A.   Public Utilities: All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
must be floodproofed in accordance with the State Building Code or elevated to
the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   B.   Public Transportation Facilities: Railroad tracks, roads, and bridges
to be located within the floodplain must comply with sections
12-1-4 and
12-1-5 of this chapter. These transportation facilities must be elevated to the
regulatory flood protection elevation where failure or interruption of these
facilities would result in danger to the public health or safety or where such
facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or
auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where
failure or interruption of transportation services would not endanger the
public health or safety.
   C.   On-Site Water Supply And Sewage Treatment Systems: Where public
utilities are not provided: 1) on-site water supply systems must be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and are
subject to the provisions in Minnesota Rules chapter 4725.4350, as amended; and
2) new or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters, they must not be subject to
impairment or contamination during times of flooding, and are subject to the
provisions in Minnesota Rules chapter 7080.2270, as amended. (Ord. 2017-009, 7-
18-2017)
12-1-10: MANUFACTURED HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Manufactured Homes: New manufactured home parks and expansions to
existing manufactured home parks are prohibited in any floodplain district. For
existing manufactured home parks or lots of record, the following requirements
apply:
      1.   Placement or replacement of manufactured home units is prohibited in
the Floodway District.
      2.   Placement or replacement of manufactured home units in the Flood
Fringe District is subject to the requirements of section
12-1-6 of this chapter and the following standards.
         a.   New and replacement manufactured homes must be elevated in
compliance with section
12-1-5 of this chapter and must be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the- top
or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable
State or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         b.   New or replacement manufactured homes in existing manufactured
home parks must meet the vehicular access requirements for subdivisions in
subsection 12-1-8A2 of this chapter.
   B.   Recreational Vehicles: New recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds
and expansions to existing recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds are
prohibited in any floodplain district. Placement of recreational vehicles in
existing recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds in the floodplain must meet
the requirements below.
      1.   Placement: Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter if they are placed in any of the following areas and meet the
criteria listed in subsection B2 of this section:
         a.   Individual lots or parcels of record.
         b.   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds.
         c.   Existing condominium-type associations.
      2.   Criteria For Exempt Recreational Vehicles:
         a.   The vehicle must have a current license required for highway use.
         b.   The vehicle must be highway ready, meaning on wheels or the
internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks.
         c.   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to the
vehicle.
         d.   Accessory structures may be permitted in the Flood Fringe
District, provided that they constitute a minimal investment, do not hinder the
removal of the vehicle should flooding occur, and meet the standards outlined
in subsections 12-1-4B and 12-1-6B2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-009, 7-18-2017)
12-1-11: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Duties: A Zoning Administrator or other official designated by the City
of Baxter must administer and enforce this chapter.
   B.   Permit Application Requirements:
      1.   Application For Permit: Permit applications must be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator. The permit
application must include the following as applicable:
         a.   A site plan showing all pertinent dimensions, existing or
proposed buildings, structures, and significant natural features having an
influence on the permit.
         b.   Location of fill or storage of materials in relation to the
stream channel.
         c.   Copies of any required Municipal, County, State or Federal
permits or approvals.
         d.   Other relevant information requested by the Zoning Administrator
as necessary to properly evaluate the permit application.
      2.   Certification: The applicant is required to submit certification by
a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Floodproofing measures must be
certified by a registered professional engineer or registered architect.
Accessory structures designed in accordance with subsection 12-1-6B2 of this
chapter are exempt from certification, provided sufficient documentation is
provided.
      3.   Certificate Of Zoning Compliance For A New, Altered, Or
Nonconforming Use: No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in
any manner until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the
Zoning Administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to
the requirements of this chapter.
      4.   Record Of First Floor Elevation: The Zoning Administrator must
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplain. The Zoning Administrator must also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures and alterations or additions to structures are
floodproofed.
      5.   Notifications For Watercourse Alterations: Before authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator must
notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to work
in public waters pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 103G.245, this will
suffice as adequate notice. A copy of the notification must also be submitted
to the Chicago Regional Office of the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
      6.   Notification To FEMA When Physical Changes Increase Or Decrease Base
Flood Elevations: As soon as is practicable, but not later than six (6) months
after the date such supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator must notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes by
submitting a copy of the relevant technical or scientific data.
   C.   Variances:
      1.   Variance Applications: An application for a variance to the
provisions of this chapter will be processed and reviewed in accordance with
applicable State Statutes and section
10-7-6 of this Code.
      2.   Adherence To State Floodplain Management Standards: A variance must
not allow a use that is not allowed in that district, permit a lower degree of
flood protection than the regulatory flood protection elevation for the
particular area, or permit standards lower than those required by State law.
      3.   Additional Variance Criteria: The following additional variance
criteria of the Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
         a.   Variances must not be issued by a community within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
         b.   Variances may only be issued by a community upon: 1) a showing of
good and sufficient cause, 2) a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and 3) a
determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         c.   Variances may only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Flood Insurance Notice: The Zoning Administrator must notify the
applicant for a variance that: a) the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage; and b) such construction below
the base or regional flood level increases risks to life and property. Such
notification must be maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      5.   General Considerations: The community may consider the following
factors in granting variances and imposing conditions on variances and
conditional uses in floodplains:
         a.   The potential danger to life and property due to increased flood
heights or velocities caused by encroachments;
         b.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
         c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems, if any, and the
ability of these systems to minimize the potential for disease, contamination
and unsanitary conditions;
         d.   The susceptibility of any proposed use and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         e.   The importance of the services to be provided by the proposed use
to the community;
         f.   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
         g.   The availability of viable alternative locations for the proposed
use that are not subject to flooding;
         h.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
         i.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Land
Use Plan and Floodplain Management Program for the area;
         j.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site.
      6.   Submittal Of Hearing Notices To The Department Of Natural Resources
(DNR): The City of Baxter Zoning Administrator must submit hearing notices for
proposed variances to the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at least ten
(10) days' notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or
U.S. mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
      7.   Submittal Of Final Decisions To The DNR: A copy of all decisions
granting variances must be forwarded to the DNR within ten (10) days of such
action. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist.
      8.   Record-Keeping: The Zoning Administrator must maintain a record of
all variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and must
report such variances in an annual or biennial report to the Administrator of
the National Flood Insurance Program, when requested by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   D.   Conditional Uses:
      1.   Administrative Review: An application for a conditional use permit
under the provisions of this chapter will be processed and reviewed in
accordance with section
10-7-4 of this Code.
      2.   Factors Used In Decision-Making: In passing upon conditional use
applications, the City of Baxter must consider all relevant factors specified
in other sections of this chapter, and those factors identified in subsection
12-1-11C5 of this section.
      3.   Conditions Attached To Conditional Use Permits: The City of Baxter
may attach such conditions to the granting of conditional use permits as it
deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. Such conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities.
         b.   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation.
         c.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
         d.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees, and other protective measures.
         e.   Floodproofing measures, in accordance with the State Building
Code and this chapter. The applicant must submit a plan or document certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and
associated flood factors for the particular area.
      4.   Submittal Of Hearing Notices To The Department Of Natural Resources
(DNR): The City of Baxter Zoning Administrator must submit hearing notices for
proposed conditional uses to the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at
least ten (10) days' notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by
electronic mail or U.S. mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
      5.   Submittal Of Final Decisions To The DNR: A copy of all decisions
granting conditional uses must be forwarded to the DNR within ten (10) days of
such action. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist. (Ord. 2017-009, 7-18-2017)
12-1-12: NONCONFORMITIES:
   A.   Continuance Of Nonconformities: A use, structure, or occupancy of land
which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this chapter but which is
not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject
to the following conditions. Historic structures, as defined in "substantial
improvement", in subsection 12-1-2F of this chapter, are subject to the
provisions of subsections A1 through A6 of this section.
      1.   A nonconforming use, structure, or occupancy must not be expanded,
changed, enlarged, or altered in a way that increases its flood damage
potential or degree of obstruction to flood flows except as provided in
subsection A2 of this section. Expansion or enlargement of uses, structures or
occupancies within the Floodway District is prohibited.
      2.   Any addition or structural alteration to a nonconforming structure
or nonconforming use that would result in increasing its flood damage potential
must be protected to the regulatory flood protection elevation in accordance
with any of the elevation on fill or floodproofing techniques (i.e., FP1 thru
FP4 floodproofing classifications) allowable in the State Building Code, except
as further restricted in subsection A4 of this section.
      3.   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming structure,
is discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the premises must
conform to this chapter.
      4.   If any structure experiences a substantial improvement as defined in
this chapter, then the entire structure must meet the standards of section
12-1-5 or
12-1-6 of this chapter for new structures, depending upon whether the structure
is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively. If the current
proposal, including maintenance and repair during the previous three hundred
sixty five (365) days, plus the costs of any previous alterations and additions
since the first Flood Insurance Rate Map exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of any nonconforming structure, the entire structure must meet the
standards of section
12-1-5 or
12-1-6 of this chapter.
      5.   If any nonconformity is substantially damaged, as defined in this
chapter, it may not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses or new
structures in section
12-1-5 or
12-1-6 of this chapter will apply depending upon whether the use or structure
is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe, respectively.
      6.   If any nonconforming use or structure experiences a repetitive loss,
as defined in subsection 12-1-2F of this chapter, it must not be reconstructed
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-009, 7-18-
2017)
12-1-13: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation Constitutes A Misdemeanor: Violation of the provisions of
this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants
of variances or conditional uses) constitute a misdemeanor and will be
punishable as defined by law.
   B.   Other Lawful Action: Nothing in this chapter restricts the City of
Baxter from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. If the responsible party does not appropriately respond
to the Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each
additional day that lapses will constitute an additional violation of this
chapter and will be prosecuted accordingly.
   C.   Enforcement: Violations of the provisions of this chapter will be
investigated and resolved in accordance with the provisions of title 10,
chapter 7 of this Code. In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the
Zoning Administrator and City of Baxter may utilize the full array of
enforcement actions available to it including but not limited to prosecution
and fines, injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures
or a request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood
insurance availability to the guilty party. The City of Baxter must act in good
faith to enforce these official controls and to correct chapter violations to
the extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National
Flood Insurance Program. (Ord. 2017-009, 7-18-2017)
12-1-14: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Floodplain Designation - Restrictions On Removal: The floodplain
designation on the Official Zoning Map must not be removed from floodplain
areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or that the area
has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special exceptions
to this rule may be permitted by the Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR) if the Commissioner determines that, through other measures,
lands are adequately protected for the intended use.
   B.   Amendments Require DNR Approval: All amendments to this chapter must be
submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR) prior to adoption. The Commissioner must approve the amendment
prior to community approval.
   C.   Map Revisions Require Ordinance Amendments: The floodplain district
regulations must be amended to incorporate any revisions by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency to the floodplain maps adopted in subsection 12-1-
2B of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-009, 7-18-2017)
