City of Benson, Minnesota
Code of Ordinances
2025 S-11 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 215, passed 2-18-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF BENSON, MINNESOTA,
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, Minnesota Statutes Sections 415.02 and 415.03 authorize the City to
cause its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,
   NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Benson, Minnesota, ordains:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Benson”. This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
            Title I:      General Provisions
            Title III:   Administration
            Title V:   Public Works
            Title VII:   Traffic Code
            Title IX:   General Regulations
            Title XI:   Business Regulations
            Title XIII:   General Offenses
            Title XV:   Land Usage
   Section 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of
Ordinances.
   Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a
sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously
published in the City’s official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause a
substantial quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general
distribution to the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code
of Ordinances to the County Law Library or its designated depository. The
official copy of this Code of Ordinances shall be marked and be kept in the
office of the City Clerk.
   Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of
the law of the City and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
   Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect 30 days after publication of this
ordinance in the City’s official newspaper.
Passed by the City Council of the City of Benson, Minnesota this 11th day of
June, 2001.
                      Paul Kittelson /s/
                           Mayor
Attest: Glen Pederson /s/
      City Clerk
CHARTER
Section
Chapter 1. Name, Boundaries, Powers and General Provisions
   
1.01   Name and boundaries
   
1.02   Powers of the city
   
1.03   Charter a public act
Chapter 2. Form of Government
   
2.01   Form of government
   
2.02   Boards and commissions
   
2.03   Elective officers
   
2.04   Incompatible offices
   
2.05   Vacancies in the council
   
2.06   The Mayor
   
2.07   Salaries
   
2.08   Investigation of city affairs
   
2.09   Interferences with administration
Chapter 3. Procedure of Council
   
3.01   Council meetings
   
3.02   Secretary of council
   
3.03   Rules of procedure and quorum
   
3.04   Ordinances, resolutions, and motions
   
3.05   Procedure on ordinances
   
3.06   Emergency ordinances
   
3.07   Procedure on resolutions
   
3.08   Signing and publication of ordinances and resolutions
   
3.09   When ordinances and resolutions take effect
   
3.10   Amendment and repeal of ordinances and resolutions
   
3.11   Revision and Codification of ordinances
Chapter 4. Nominations and Elections
   
4.01   The regular municipal election
   
4.02   Special elections
   
4.03   Candidates for office
   
4.04   Canvass of elections
   
4.05   Procedure at elections
Chapter 5. Referendum
   
5.01   Power reserved by the people
   
5.02   Expenditures by petitioners
   
5.03   Further regulations
   
5.04   The referendum
   
5.05   Referendum petition
Chapter 6. Administration of City Affairs
   
6.01   The City Manager
   
6.02   Powers and duties of the city manager
   
6.03   Departments of administration
   
6.04   Subordinate officers
   
6.05   Purchases and contracts
   
6.06   Contracts; how let
Chapter 7. Taxation and Finances
   
7.01   Council to control finances
   
7.02   Fiscal years
   
7.03   System of taxation
   
7.04   Board of equalization
   
7.05   Preparation of the annual budget
   
7.06   Passage of budget
   
7.07   Enforcement of the budget
   
7.08   Alterations in the budget
   
7.09   Emergency appropriation in budget
   
7.10   Disbursements; how made
   
7.11   Funds to be kept
   
7.12   Accounts and reports
   
7.13   City indebtedness
   
7.14   Tax anticipation certificates
   
7.15   Emergency debt certificates
   
7.16   Certificates of indebtedness
   
7.17   Investment of funds
Chapter 8. Public Improvements and Special Assessments
   
8.01   Power to make improvements and levy assessments
   
8.02   Assessments for services
   
8.03   Local improvement regulations
   
8.04   Public works; how performed
Chapter 9. Eminent Domain
   
9.01   Power to acquire property
   
9.02   Proceedings in acquiring property
   
9.03   Payment of award
   
9.04   City may abandon proceedings
   
9.05   City may take entire plant
Chapter 10. Franchises
   
10.01    Franchises required
   
10.02    Term
   
10.03    Public hearings
   
10.04    Power of regulation reserved
   
10.05    Renewals of extensions
Chapter 11. Public Ownership and Operation of Utilities
   
11.01   Acquisition and operation of utilities
   
11.02   Rates and finances
   
11.03   Purchase in bulk
   
11.04   Lease of plant
   
11.05   Public utility; how sold
Chapter 12. Miscellaneous and Transitory Provisions
   
12.01   Official publications
   
12.02   Oath of office
   
12.03   City officers not to be interested in contracts
   
12.04   Official bonds
   
12.05   Sales of real property
   
12.06   Vacation of streets
   
12.07   City to succeed to rights and obligations of former city
   
12.08   Present officers to hold office until when
   
12.09   Statutes not affected by charter
   
12.10   Existing ordinances continued
   
12.11   Pending condemnations and assessments
   
12.12   Ordinances to make charter effective
   
12.13   Fire department and relief association
   Certificate of Charter Commission
CHAPTER 1.
NAME, BOUNDARIES, POWERS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1.01 NAME AND BOUNDARIES.
   The City of Benson, in the County of Swift, and State of Minnesota, shall,
upon the taking effect of this charter, continue to be a municipal corporation,
under the name and style of the city of Benson, with the same boundaries as now
are or hereafter may be established.
§ 1.02 POWERS OF THE CITY.
   The city shall have all powers which it may now or hereafter be possible for
a municipal corporation in this state to exercise in harmony with the
constitutions of this state and of the United States. It is the intention of
this charter that every power which the people of the City of Benson might
lawfully confer upon themselves as a municipal corporation by specific
enumeration in this charter shall be deemed to have been so conferred by the
provisions of this section. This charter shall be construed liberally in favor
of the city and the specific mention of particular powers in the charter shall
not be construed as limiting in any way the generality of the power herein
sought to be conferred.
§ 1.03 CHARTER A PUBLIC ACT.
   This charter shall be a public act and need not be pleaded or proved in any
case. It shall take effect thirty days from and after its adoption by the
voters.
CHAPTER 2. FORMS OF GOVERNMENT
§ 2.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government established by this charter is the “Council-Manager
Plan”. The council shall exercise the legislative power of the city and
determine all matters of policy. The City Manager shall be the head of the
administrative branch of the city government and shall be responsible to the
council for the proper administration of all affairs relating to the city.
§ 2.02 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   There shall be no separate administrative board of health, library board,
park board, or any other administration of a function jointly with another
political subdivision. The council shall itself be and perform the duties and
exercise the powers of such boards and commissions. The council may, however,
establish boards or commissions to advise the council with respect to any
municipal function or activity, to investigate any subject of interest to the
city or to perform quasi-judicial functions.
§ 2.03 ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
   The council shall be composed of a mayor and 4 (four) Councilmen who shall
be qualified electors, and who shall be elected at large. Each councilman shall
serve for a term of four years and/or until his successor is elected and
qualifies, except that at the first election held after the adoption of this
charter, the two candidates having the highest number of votes shall serve four
years and the other two successful candidates shall serve for two years. The
Mayor shall serve for a term of two years and until his successor is elected
and qualifies. The Council shall appoint qualified persons to serve as judges
of the election of Mayor and Councilmen.
§ 2.04 INCOMPATIBLE OFFICES.
   No member of the council shall be appointed city manager, nor shall any
member hold any paid municipal office or employment under the city, and until
one year after the expiration of his term as mayor or councilman no former
member shall be appointed to any paid appointive office or employment under the
city which office or employment was created or the emoluments of which were
increased during his term as councilman.
§ 2.05 VACANCIES IN THE COUNCIL.
   A vacancy in the council shall be deemed to exist in case of the failure of
any person elected thereto to qualify on or before the date of the second
regular meeting of the new council, or by reason of the death, resignation,
removal from office, removal from the city, continuous absence from the city
for more than three months, or conviction of a felony of any such person
whether before or after his qualification, or by reason of the failure of any
councilman without good cause to perform any of the duties of membership in the
council for a period of three months. In each such case the council shall by
resolution declare such vacancy to exist and fill the vacancy as provided for
by ordinance.
(Ord. 209, passed 7-19-21)
§ 2.06 THE MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of the council, except that the
council shall choose from its members, a president pro-tem who shall hold
office at the pleasure of the council and shall serve as president in the
mayor's absence and as mayor in case of the mayor's resignation, disability or
absence from the city. The mayor shall have a vote as a member of the council.
He shall exercise all powers and perform all duties conferred and imposed upon
him by this charter, the ordinances of the city, and the laws of the state. He
shall be recognized as the official head of the city for all ceremonial
purposes, by the courts for the purpose of serving civil process, and by the
governor for the purposes of martial law. He shall study the operations of the
city government and shall report to the council any neglect, dereliction of
duty, or waste on the part of any officer or department of the City. In time of
public danger or emergency he may, with the consent of the council, take
command of the police, maintain order and enforce the law.
§ 2.07 SALARIES.
   Salaries for the mayor and members of the council shall be fixed by
ordinance passed by the council provided that no change in those salaries shall
take effect until after the next succeeding municipal election. The city
manager and all subordinate officers and employees of the city shall receive
such salaries or wages as may be fixed by the council.
§ 2.08 INVESTIGATION OF CITY AFFAIRS.
   The council and the city manager, or either of them, and any officer or
officers formally authorized by them, or either of them, shall have power to
make investigations into the city's affairs, to subpoena witnesses, administer
oaths, and compel the production of books and papers. The council shall provide
for an audit of the city's accounts at least once a year by the state
department in charge of such work or by a certified public accountant or public
accountant. The council may at any time provide for an examination or audit of
the accounts of any officer or department of the city government and it may
cause to be made any survey or research study of any subject of municipal
concern.
§ 2.09 INTERFERENCES WITH ADMINISTRATION.
   The council may by ordinance establish the merit system in all or part of
the city administration but neither the council nor any of its members shall
dictate the appointment of any person to office or employment by the city
manager, or any manner interfere with the city manager or prevent him from
exercising his own judgment in the appointment of officers and employees in the
administrative service. Except for the purpose of inquiry the council and its
members shall deal with and control the administrative service solely through
the city manager, and neither the council nor any member thereof shall give
orders to any of the subordinates of the city manager, either publicly or
privately.
CHAPTER 3. PROCEDURE OF COUNCIL
§ 3.01 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   On the first business day of January, the Council shall meet at the usual
place for the holding of council meetings. At this time the newly elected
members of the Council shall assume their duties. Thereafter the Council shall
meet at such times each month as may be prescribed by ordinance or resolution.
The mayor or any two members of the Council may call special meetings of the
Council upon at least twelve hours notice to each member of the Council. All
meetings of the Council shall be public, and any citizen shall have access to
the minutes and records thereof at all reasonable times.
§ 3.02 SECRETARY OF COUNCIL.
   The city clerk or city manager shall act as secretary of the council. He
shall keep a journal of council proceedings and such other records and perform
such other duties as this charter or the council may require. The council shall
choose such other officers and employees as may be necessary to serve at its
meetings. The council may designate any other official or employee of the city
to act as secretary of the council.
§ 3.03 RULES OF PROCEDURE AND QUORUM.
   The council shall determine its own rules and order of business. A majority
of all members elected shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller
number may adjourn from time to time. The council may by ordinance provide a
means by which a minority may compel the attendance of absent members.
§ 3.04 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS.
   Except as in this charter otherwise provided, all legislation shall be by
ordinance. The aye and no vote on ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall be
recorded unless the vote is unanimous. An affirmative vote of a majority of all
the members of the council shall be required for the passage of all ordinances
and resolutions, except as otherwise provided in this charter.
§ 3.05 PROCEDURE ON ORDINANCES.
   The enacting clause of all ordinances shall be in the words, “The City of
Benson does ordain”. Every ordinance shall be presented in writing. No
ordinance except an emergency ordinance shall be passed at the meeting at which
it is introduced and at least three days shall elapse between its introduction
and final passage.
§ 3.06 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   An emergency ordinance is an ordinance necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare. Said
ordinance may not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend franchises, or regulate
rates. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form and manner
prescribed for other ordinances except that it shall plainly be designated as
an emergency ordinance and shall contain a declaration stating that an
emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. It shall
require an affirmative vote of 5 members of the council to enact the ordinance
and it shall be published in the official newspaper. It shall become effective
upon its adoption or passage or at such later time as it may specify, however,
every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed as of the 61st day
following its adoption, but this shall not prevent the reenactment of the
ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still
exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adopting a repealing
ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of
emergency ordinances.
§ 3.07 PROCEDURE ON RESOLUTIONS.
   Every resolution shall be presented in writing and read in full before a
vote is taken thereon, unless the reading of a resolution is dispensed with by
unanimous consent.
§ 3.08 SIGNING AND PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Every ordinance or resolution passed by the council shall be signed by the
mayor or by two other members, attested by the city manager and filed and
preserved by him. Every ordinance shall be published at least once in the
official newspaper. To the extent and in the manner provided by law, an
ordinance may incorporate by reference a statute of Minnesota, a state
administrative rule or a regulation, a code, or ordinance or part thereof
without publishing the material referred to in full.
§ 3.09 WHEN ORDINANCE AND RESOLUTIONS TAKE EFFECT.
   A resolution and an emergency ordinance shall take effect immediately upon
its passage or at such later date as is fixed in it. Every other ordinance
shall take effect 30 days after publication or at such later date as is fixed
therein.
§ 3.10 AMENDMENT AND REPEAL OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Every ordinance or resolution repealing a previous ordinance or resolution
or section or subdivision thereof shall give the number, if any, and the title
of the ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. No ordinance
or resolution or section or subdivision thereof shall be amended by reference
to the title alone, but such an amending ordinance or resolution shall set
forth in full each section or subdivision to be amended and shall indicate new
matter by underscoring and old matter to be omitted by enclosing in brackets.
In newspaper publication, the same indications of omitted and new matter shall
be used except that italics or bold-faced type may be substituted for
underscoring and omitted matter may be printed in capital letters within
parenthesis.
§ 3.11 REVISION AND CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The city may revise, rearrange and codify its ordinances with such additions
and deletions as may be deemed necessary by the council, providing such
revision, re-arrangement or codification does not materially change the
content, meaning, or intent of said ordinance, except for the deletion of
obsolete or inapplicable provisions thereof. Such ordinance code shall be
published in book, pamphlet or continuously revised loose-leaf form and copies
shall be made available by the council at the office of the city-clerk for
general distribution to the public free or at a reasonable charge. Publication
in such a code shall be a sufficient publication of any ordinance provision not
previously published if a notice that copies of the codification are available
at the office of the city clerk is published in the official newspaper for at
least two successive weeks.
CHAPTER 4. NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
§ 4.01 THE REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTION.
   A regular municipal election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday in November of each even-numbered year commencing in 2022 at such
place or places as the city council may designate. The city clerk shall give at
least two weeks previous notice of the time and place of holding the election
and of the officers to be elected by posting in at least one public place in
each voting precinct and by publication at least once in the official
newspaper, but failure to give such notice shall not invalidate such election.
(Ord. 209, passed 7-19-21)
§ 4.02 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   The council may by resolution order a special election and provide all means
for holding it. At least two weeks published notice of a special election shall
be given in the official newspaper. The procedure at such election shall
conform as nearly as possible to that prescribed for other municipal elections.
§ 4.03 CANDIDATES FOR OFFICE.
   Candidates for any elective office shall file an affidavit of candidacy in
accordance with the election laws of the State of Minnesota or as hereinafter
provided by ordinance.
§ 4.04 CANVASS OF ELECTION.
   The council shall meet and canvass the election returns within five days
after any regular or special election and shall make full declaration of the
results as soon as possible, and file a statement thereof with the city clerk.
This statement shall include: (a) the total number of good ballots cast; (b)
the total number of spoiled or defective ballots; (c) the vote for each
candidate, with an indication of those who were elected; (d) a true copy of the
ballots used; (e) the names of the judges and clerks of election; and (f) such
other information as may seem pertinent. The city clerk shall forth-with notify
all persons elected of their election.
§ 4.05 PROCEDURE AT ELECTIONS.
   Subject to the provisions of this charter and applicable state laws the
council may by ordinance further regulate the conduct of municipal elections.
Except as otherwise provided in this charter or in ordinances adopted pursuant
thereto the general laws of the state of Minnesota pertaining to elections
shall apply to municipal elections.
CHAPTER 5. REFERENDUM
§ 5.01 POWER RESERVED BY THE PEOPLE.
   The people of Benson reserve to themselves the power, in accordance with the
provisions of this charter (except an ordinance appropriating money or
authorizing the levy of taxes) to require any ordinance when passed by the
council, to be referred to the electors for approval or disapproval. This power
shall be called referendum.
§ 5.02 EXPENDITURES BY PETITIONERS.
   No member of any referendum, no circulator of a signature paper, no signor
of any such paper, or any other person, shall accept or offer any reward
pecuniary or otherwise. However, the committee may pay for services rendered or
expenses incurred in connection with the advertising and circulation of the
petition. Any violation of the provisions of this section is a misdemeanor.
§ 5.03 FURTHER REGULATIONS.
   The council may provide by ordinance such further regulations for referendum
not inconsistent with this charter, as may be deemed necessary.
§ 5.04 THE REFERENDUM.
   If prior to the date when an ordinance takes effect, a petition signed by
qualified electors of the city equal in number to 15 per cent of the total vote
at the last regular municipal election is filed with the city clerk requesting
that any such ordinance be repealed or be submitted to a vote of the electors,
the ordinance shall thereby be prevented from going into operation. The council
shall thereupon reconsider the ordinance at its next regular meeting and either
repeal it or by aye and no vote reaffirm its adherence to the ordinance as
passed. In the latter case the council shall immediately order a special
election to be held thereon or submit the ordinance at the next regular
municipal election, pending which the ordinance shall remain suspended.
   If a majority of the electors voting thereon is opposed to the ordinance it
shall not become effective; but if a majority of the electors voting thereon
favors the ordinance, it shall go into effect immediately or on the date
therein specified.
§ 5.05 REFERENDUM PETITION.
   A referendum petition shall read as follows:
   Referendum Petition
   Proposing the repeal of an ordinance to (stating the purpose of the
ordinance), a copy of which ordinance is hereto attached. The proposed repeal
is sponsored by the following committee of electors:
            Name                        Address
1.                           1.            
2.                           2.            
3.                           3.            
4.                           4.            
5.                           5.            
   The undersigned petitioners, understanding the nature of the ordinance
hereto attached and believing it to be detrimental to the welfare of the city,
petition the council for its submission to a vote of the electors for their
approval or disapproval.
            Name                        Address
1.                           1.            
2.                           2.            
3.                           3.            
CHAPTER 6. ADMINISTRATION OF CITY AFFAIRS
§ 6.01 THE CITY MANAGER.
   The manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city. He shall
be chosen by the council solely on the basis of his training, experience, and
administrative qualifications and need not be a resident of the city at the
time of his appointment. The city manager shall be appointed for an indefinite
period and may be removed by the council at any time; but after he has served
as manager for one year, he may demand written charges and a public hearing on
the charges before the council prior to the date when his final removal takes
effect. After such hearing, if one is demanded, the council shall have
unlimited discretion either to reinstate the manager or make his removal final.
Pending such hearing and removal, the council may suspend the manager from
office. The council may designate some properly qualified person to perform the
duties of the manager during his absence or disability or while the office of
manager is vacant.
§ 6.02 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   Subject to the provisions of this charter and any council regulations
consistent therewith the city manager shall control and direct the
administration of the city's affairs. He shall have the powers and duties set
forth in the subdivisions:
   (A)   He shall see that this charter and the laws, ordinances and
resolutions of the city are enforced.
   (B)   He shall appoint and remove, upon the basis of merit and fitness, all
subordinate officers and employees in the departments except the department
heads who shall be appointed or removed by the city council upon the
recommendation of the manager. The manager however, may suspend any employee,
department head or otherwise for a period of not more than 60 days pending
investigation into the affairs of the department or the employee.
   (C)   He shall exercise control over all departments and divisions of the
city administration created by this charter or by the council.
   (D)   He shall attend all meetings of the council, with the right to take
part in the discussion but not to vote; but the council may in its discretion
exclude him from any meeting at which his removal is considered.
   (E)   He shall recommend to the council for the adoption such measure as he
may deem necessary for the welfare of the people and the efficient
administration of the city's affairs.
   (F)   He shall keep the council fully, advised as to the financial condition
and needs of the city, and he shall prepare and submit to the council the
annual budget.
   (G)   He shall prepare and submit to the council for adoption an
administrative code incorporating the details of administrative procedure, and
from time to time he shall suggest amendments to such code.
   (H)   He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this
charter or by law or required of him by ordinances or resolutions adopted by
the council.
§ 6.03 DEPARTMENTS OF ADMINISTRATION.
   The council may create such departments, divisions, and bureaus for the
administration of the city's affairs as may seem necessary, and from time to
time alter their powers and organization. It may, in conjunction with the city
manager, prepare a complete administrative code for the city and enact it in
the form of an ordinance which may be amended from time to time by ordinance.
§ 6.04 SUBORDINATE OFFICERS.
   There may be a city clerk and such other officers subordinate to the city
manager as the council may create by ordinance. The city clerk shall be subject
to the direction of the city manager, and shall have such duties in connection
with the keeping of the public records, the custody and disbursement of the
public funds, and the general administration of the city's affairs as the
council prescribes. He may be designated to act as secretary of the council and
also as treasurer. The council may by ordinance abolish offices which have been
created by ordinance and it may combine the duties of various offices as it may
see fit.
§ 6.05 PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS.
   The city manager shall be the chief purchasing agent of the city. All city
purchases and contracts shall be made or let by the city manager when the
amount of the purchases or contract does not exceed $5,000.00. All other
purchases shall be made and all other contracts let by the city manager only
after prior approval of the Council thereof. All contracts, bonds, and
instruments of any kind to which the city is a party shall be signed by the
mayor and the city manager on behalf of the city and shall be executed in the
name of the city.
§ 6.06 CONTRACTS; HOW LET.
   In all cases of contracts entered into for the sale or purchase of supplies,
materials, equipment or the rental thereof, or the construction, alteration,
repair or maintenance of real or personal property, the city manager and City
Council shall make or let said contract in conformance with the provisions of
the Uniform Municipal Contracting Law, Minnesota Statutes Section 471.345, the
laws amendatory thereof.
CHAPTER 7. TAXATION AND FINANCES
§ 7.01 COUNCIL TO CONTROL FINANCES.
   The council shall have full authority over the financial affairs of the
city, and shall provide for the collection of all revenues and other assets,
the auditing and settlement of accounts, and the safe keeping and disbursement
of public monies, and in the exercise of a sound discretion shall make
appropriations for the payment of all liabilities and expenses.
§ 7.02 FISCAL YEARS.
   The fiscal year of the city shall be the calendar year.
§ 7.03 SYSTEM OF TAXATION.
   Subject to the state constitution, and except as forbidden by it, or by
state legislation the council shall have full power to provide by ordinance for
a system of local taxation. This authority includes the power by ordinance to
assess, levy, and collect taxes on all subjects or objects of taxation, except
as limited or prohibited by the state constitution, by this charter or by laws
imposing restrictions upon the city irrespective of charter provisions.
§ 7.04 BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.
   The council shall constitute a board of equalization to equalize assessments
of property for taxation purposes according to law.
§ 7.05 PREPARATION OF THE ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The city manager shall prepare the estimates for the annual budget as
prescribed by the city council with the following as minimum requirements. The
budget shall be by funds and shall include all the funds of the city, except
the funds made up of proceeds of bond issues, utility funds, and special
assessment funds, and may include any of such funds at the discretion of the
council. The estimates of expenditures for each fund budgeted shall be arranged
for each department or division of the city under the following heads: (1)
ordinary expenses (for operation, maintenance, and repairs); (2) payment of
principal and interest on bonds and other fixed charges; (3) capital outlays
(for new construction, new equipment, and all improvements of a lasting
character). Ordinary expenses shall be subdivided into: (a) salaries and wages
with a list of all salaried offices and positions, including the salary
allowance and the number of persons holding each; (b) other expenses with
sufficient detail to be readily understood. All increases and decreases shall
be clearly shown. In parallel columns shall be added the amounts granted and
the amounts expended under similar heads for the past two completed fiscal
years and the current fiscal year, actual to date and estimated for the balance
of the year. In addition to the estimates of expenditures, the budget shall
include for each budgeted fund a statement of the revenues which have accrued
for the past two completed fiscal years with the amount collected and the
uncollected balances together with the same information, based in so far as
necessary on estimates, for the current fiscal year and an estimate of the
revenues for the ensuing fiscal year. The statement of revenues for each year
shall specify the following items: sums derived from (a) taxation, (b) fees,
(c) fines, (d) interest, (e) miscellaneous, not included in the foregoing, (f)
sales and rentals, (g) earnings of public utilities and other public service
enterprises, (h) special assessments, and (i) sales of bonds and other
obligations. Such estimate shall be printed or typewritten and there shall be
sufficient copies for each member of the council, for the city manager, for the
city clerk, and three, at least, to be posted in public places in the city. The
estimates shall be submitted to the council at its first regular monthly
meeting in September and shall be made public. The city manager may submit with
the estimates such explanatory statement or statements as he may deem
necessary, and during the first three years of operation under this charter he
shall be authorized to interpret the requirements of this section as requiring
only such comparisons of the city's finances with those of the previous
government of the city as may be feasible and pertinent.
§ 7.06 PASSAGE OF BUDGET.
   The budget shall be the principal item of business at the first regular
monthly meeting of the council in September and the council shall hold
adjourned meetings from time to time until all the estimates have been
considered. The meetings shall be so conducted as to give interested citizens a
reasonable opportunity to be heard. The budget estimates shall be read in full
and the city manager shall explain the various items thereof as fully as may be
deemed necessary by the council. The annual budget finally agreed upon shall
set forth in detail, the complete financial plan of the city for the ensuing
fiscal year for the funds budgeted and shall be signed by the majority of the
council when adopted. It shall indicate the sums to be raised and from what
sources and the sums to be spent for what purposes according to Sec.
7.05. The total sum appropriated shall be less than the total estimated revenue
by a safe margin. The council shall adopt the budget not later than the first
week of October or at such date the law prescribes by resolution which shall
set forth the total for each budgeted fund and each department with such
segregation as to objects and purposes of expenditures as the council deems
necessary for purposes of budget control. The council shall also adopt a
resolution levying whatever taxes it considers necessary within statutory
limits for the ensuing year, the sums fixed in the budget resolution shall be
and become appropriated for the several purposes named in the budget resolution
and no other.
§ 7.07 ENFORCEMENT OF THE BUDGET.
   It shall be the duty of the city manager to enforce strictly the provisions
of the budget. He shall not approve any order upon the city treasurer for any
expenditure unless an appropriation has been made in the budget resolution, nor
for any expenditure covered by the budget resolution unless there is a
sufficient unexpended balance left after deducting the total past expenditure's
and the sum of all outstanding orders and encumbrances. No officer or employee
of the city shall place any order or make any purchase except for a purpose and
to the amount authorized in the budget resolution. Any obligation incurred by
any person in the employ of the city for any purpose not authorized in the
budget resolution or for any amount in excess of the amount therein authorized
shall be a personal obligation upon the person incurring the expenditure.
§ 7.08 ALTERATIONS IN THE BUDGET.
   After the budget resolution has been adopted, the council shall have no
power to increase the amounts fixed in the budget resolution, by the insertion
of new items or otherwise, beyond the estimated revenues unless the actual
receipts exceed the estimates and then not beyond the actual receipts.
   The council may at any time, by resolution approved by a majority of its
members, reduce the sums appropriated for any purpose by the budget resolution,
or by a vote of 4 members, authorize the transfer of sums from unencumbered
balances of appropriations in the budget resolution to other purposes.
§ 7.09 EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS IN BUDGET.
   The council may include an emergency appropriation as a part of the budget
but not to exceed 10 percent of the total tax levy for the year. A transfer
from the emergency appropriation to any other appropriation shall be made only
by a vote of at least 4 members of the council and shall be used only for the
purposes designated by the council.
§ 7.10 DISBURSEMENT; HOW MADE.
   No disbursement of city funds shall be made except by check signed by the
mayor, city manager, and treasurer and specifying the purposes for which the
disbursement is made and the fund from which it is drawn. No such check shall
be issued until there is money to the credit of the fund from which it is to be
paid sufficient to pay it together with all outstanding encumbrances upon the
fund. No such check shall be issued until the claim to which it relates has
been supported by an itemized bill, payroll, or time-sheet, approved and signed
by the responsible city officer who vouches for its correctness and
reasonableness. The city Manager shall note on each contract requiring the
payment of money by the city the particular fund out of which it is to be paid.
The council may by ordinance make further regulations for the safekeeping and
disbursement of the funds of the city.
§ 7.11 FUNDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   There shall be maintained. in the city treasury the funds provided for
in the following subdivisions.
      (1)   A general fund for the payment of such expenses of the city as the
council may deem proper. Into this fund shall be paid all money not provided
herein or by statute to be paid into any other fund.
      (2)   A debt service fund, into which shall be paid all receipts from
taxes or other sources for the payment of principal and interest of all
obligations issued by the city except bonds issued on account of any local
improvement to be financed wholly or partly by special assessments and bonds
issued on account of any municipally owned utility. Out of this fund shall be
paid, the principal and interest of such obligations when due. Any surplus in
such fund not needed immediately for debt service may be invested under the
direction of the council in such securities as are authorized by statute for
the investment of such funds; and such investments may be liquidated at any
time. To the extent required by law, a separate account in the debt service
fund shall be maintained for each issue of city obligations.
      (3)   A bond fund, into which shall be paid and disbursed the proceeds of
all bonds issued by the city except bonds issued on account of any local
improvement to be financed wholly or partly by special assessments and bonds
issued on account of any municipally owned utility. A separate bond account
shall be kept for each issue of such bonds.
      (4)   A special assessment fund, which shall be used to finance local
improvements to be paid for, in whole or in part, from special assessments
against benefited property. There shall be paid into this fund: (1) collections
of special assessments with interest, levied against benefited property; (2)
proceeds of bonds or warrants sold by the city to finance local improvements to
be paid for in whole or in part, by special assessments; and the proceeds of
inter-fund loans; (3) amounts from other city funds representing either (a)
apportionments of costs against the city at large, (b) benefit assessments
against city property, or, (c) appropriations to maintain the integrity of the
fund. There shall be paid out of this fund: (1) all expenses and costs of the
improvement projects financed through the fund; (2) the redemption of all
special assessment fund obligations, with interest, at or before maturity; and
any interfund loans; and (3) abatements of assessments and refunds of receipts
in error. The council shall maintain the integrity of this fund by
appropriations from tax funds if necessary, and in addition may by ordinance
create and maintain in the fund a cash reserve sufficient for working capital
purposes. In order to anticipate the collection of special assessments and the
municipal share of the cost of a local improvement, the council may by a
majority vote issue and sell obligations pledging the full faith and credit of
the city, or pledging only special assessments, in such amounts and maturities
as it may determine; but the aggregate amount of such obligations outstanding
at any time shall not exceed the sum of the following: (1) all assessments
levied and uncollected; (2) cost of work in progress to be financed in whole or
in part by special assessments, and (3) the cash reserve for working capital as
previously determined by ordinance. In order that the fund may be administered
on a self-sustaining basis, all local improvement projects financed through it
shall upon completion be certified by the city manager as to total cost, which
shall thereupon be apportioned by the council either as assessments against
benefited property or as amounts due from other city funds. Amounts apportioned
against other city funds shall be due when installments of special assessments
levied for the same project are due, corresponding assessment rolls shall be
charged interest as in the case of assessments and shall be credited to the
fund, with any interest due, when collected. To the extent required by law, a
tax for the city's share of the cost shall be levied before any obligations
against the fund are issued and sold. When a local improvement to be financed
wholly or partly from special assessment is undertaken under any applicable
statute any provision of this subdivision inconsistent with the statute shall
not apply.
      (5)   A public utility fund into which shall be paid all money derived
from the sale of obligations issued on account of any municipally owned utility
and all money derived from the sale of utility services, and from the sale of
any property acquired for or used in connection with any such utility. There
shall be paid out of this fund the cost of the purchase, construction,
operation, maintenance and repair of such utility, including the principal of
and interest upon obligations which have been or shall be issued on its
account. Separate accounts within the public utility fund shall be kept for all
utilities which are operated separately. No more than 25% of the net profit
(after depreciation) may be transferred from the Utility Fund to any other fund
in any one year except by ordinance which shall state the specific purpose that
the excess money shall be used for and in addition must affirm that a capital
improvement program for the next 10 years has been studied and the Utility Fund
does not need the money to fulfill its improvement program for the succeeding
10 years.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing funds there may be maintained in the city
treasury, whenever the council deems it advisable, the following funds:
      (1)   One or more working capital or revolving funds, for financing self-
sustaining activities not accounted for through other funds;
      (2)   One or more trust and agency funds, for the care and disbursement
of money received and held by the city as trustee or custodian or in the
capacity of any agent for individuals or other governmental units;
      (3)   Such other funds as may be required by statute or ordinance.
   (C)   In lieu of establishing any of the types of funds specified in
division (B), the council may provide for the recording of operations or
activities for which the use of such funds might be suitable through the
maintenance of separate accounts in any appropriate fund already established.
The council shall have full power by ordinance or resolution to make interfund
loans, except from trust, utility, and agency funds as it may deem necessary
and appropriate from time to time.
§ 7.12 ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS.
   The city manager shall be the chief accounting officer of the city and of
every branch thereof, and the council may prescribe and enforce proper
accounting methods, forms, blanks, and other devices consistent with the law,
this charter, and the ordinances adopted in accord therewith. He shall submit
to the council a statement each month showing the amount of money in the
custody of the city treasurer, the status of all funds, the amount spent or
chargeable against each of the annual budget allowances and the balances left
in each, and such other information about the finances of the city as the
council may require. Once each year on or before the last day of February, the
city manager shall submit a report to the council covering the entire financial
operations of the city for the past year. This report shall show: the actual
receipts and expenditures omitting duplications and stating the cash balance at
the beginning of the last fiscal year and at the close, the total outlays for
operation and maintenance, and the total capital outlays; the condition of each
of the funds; the total receipts by sources and the total expenditures by
general purposes; the total outstanding bonds and debts of the city when due,
the amount of new bonds issued and the amount redeemed and the interest rate of
each; the condition of all the annual budget allowances; an inventory of all
the property owned by the city; and such further information as the city
manager deems advisable or the council requires.
§ 7.13 CITY INDEBTEDNESS.
   Except as provided in §§
7.14 and
7.15, no obligations shall be issued to pay current expenses, but the council
may issue and sell obligations for any other municipal purpose in accordance
with law and within the limitations prescribed by law. Except in the case of
obligations for which an election is not required by this charter or by state
law, no such obligations shall be issued and sold without the approval of the
majority of the electors of the city voting on the question at a general or
special election.
§ 7.14 TAX ANTICIPATION CERTIFICATES.
   At any time after January 1 st following the making of an annual tax levy,
the council may issue certificates of indebtedness in anticipation of the
collection of taxes levied for any fund and not yet collected.
   The total amount of certificates issued against any fund for any year with
interest thereon until maturity shall not exceed 90% of the total current taxes
for the fund uncollected at the time of issuance. Such certificates shall be
issued on such terms and conditions as the council may determine and shall bear
interest at a rate not to exceed the maximum rate allowed by State law for
general obligations of the City but they shall become due and payable not later
than the 1 st day of April of the year following their issuance. The proceeds
of the tax levied for the fund against which tax anticipation certificates are
issued and the full faith and credit of the City shall be irrevocably pledged
for the redemption of the certificates in the order of their issuance against
the fund.
§ 7.15 EMERGENCY DEBT CERTIFICATES.
   If in any year the receipts from taxes or other sources should from some
unforseen cause become insufficient for the ordinary expenses of the city, or
if any calamity or other public emergency should subject the city to the
necessity of making extraordinary expenditures, the council may by ordinance
issue and sell on such terms and in such manner as the council determines
emergency debt certificates to run not to exceed two years and to bear interest
at not more than the maximum rate allowed by State law for general obligations
in the City. A tax sufficient to pay principal and interest on such
certificates with the margin required by law shall be levied as required by
law. The ordinance authorizing an issue of such emergency debt certificates
shall state the nature of the emergency and be approved by at least 4 members
of the Council. It may be passed as an emergency ordinance.
§ 7.16 CERTIFICATES OF INDEBTEDNESS.
   The council may issue certificates of indebtedness within existing debt
limits for the purpose of purchasing fire or police equipment or street
construction equipment or maintenance equipment. Such certificates shall be
payable in not more than five (5) years and shall be issued on such terms and
in such manner as the council may deem necessary.
§ 7.17 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   The City Manager, with the approval of the Council, may invest monies out of
the treasury of the city in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota,
provided, however, that all interest accrued shall be the normal accounting
credited to the proper fund in accordance with normal accounting procedures.
CHAPTER 8. PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
§ 8.01 POWER TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS AND LEVY ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall have the power to make any and every type of public
improvements not forbidden by the laws of this state and to levy special
assessments to pay all or any part of the cost of such improvements as are of a
local character. The amounts assessed to benefited property to pay for such
local improvements may equal the cost of the improvement, including all costs
and expenses connected therewith, with interest until paid, but shall in no
case exceed the benefits to the property.
§ 8.02 ASSESSMENTS FOR SERVICES.
   The council may provide by ordinance that the cost of sprinkling, snow, or
rubbish removal, or any other service to streets, sidewalks, or other public
property, or the costs of any services to other property undertaken by the city
may be assessed against the property benefited and collected in like manner as
are special assessments.
§ 8.03 LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS REGULATIONS.
   After this charter takes effect local improvements commenced prior thereto
shall be completed and assessments may be levied and securities issued for the
financing thereof as prescribed by the law (or charter provisions) applicable
thereto. The council may prepare and adopt a comprehensive ordinance
prescribing the procedure which shall be followed thereafter in making all
local improvements and levying assessments therefor. Such ordinance shall
supersede all other provisions of the law on the same subject and may be
amended only by an affirmative vote of at least 4 members of the council. In
the absence of such ordinance all local improvements may be made and
assessments levied therefor as prescribed by any applicable law.
§ 8.04 PUBLIC WORKS; HOW PERFORMED.
   Public works including all local improvements, may be constructed, extended,
repaired, and maintained either directly by day labor or by contract. The city
may require contractors to give bonds for the protection of the city and all
persons furnishing labor and materials pursuant to the laws of the state.
CHAPTER 9. EMINENT DOMAIN
§ 9.01 POWER TO ACQUIRE PROPERTY.
   The city may acquire, by purchase, gift, devise, or condemnation, any
property, corporeal or incorporeal, either within or without corporate
boundaries, which may be needed by the city for any public use or purpose,
easements for slopes, fills, sewers, building lines, poles, wires, pipes, and
conduits for water, gas, heat, and power may be acquired by gift, devise,
purchases or condemnation in the manner provided by law.
§ 9.02 PROCEEDINGS IN ACQUIRING PROPERTY.
   The necessity for the taking of any property by the city shall be determined
by the council and shall be declared by a resolution which shall describe such
property as nearly as may be and state the use to which it is to be devoted. In
acquiring property by exercising the power of eminent domain, the city shall
proceed according to the laws of this state, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.
§ 9.03 PAYMENT OF AWARD.
   Whenever an award of damages is confirmed in any proceeding for the taking
of property for public use by right of eminent domain, or whenever the court
renders final judgement in any appeal from any such award and the time for
abandoning such proceedings by the city has expired, the city shall, within 60
days of such final determination, pay the amount of the award or judgment of
the court, as the case may be; and if not so paid, judgment therefor may be had
against the city.
§ 9.04 CITY MAY ABANDON PROCEEDINGS.
   The city may, by resolution of the council at any stage of the condemnation
proceedings or at any time within 30 days after final determination thereof,
abandon such proceedings as to all or any part of the property sought to be
acquired and shall pay all reasonable costs and expenses.
§ 9.05 CITY MAY TAKE ENTIRE PLANT.
   If the city condemns a public utility which is operated at the time of the
commencement of the condemnation proceedings as one property or one system, it
shall not be necessary in the condemnation proceedings or any of the
proceedings of the council to describe or treat separately the different kinds
of property composing such system, but all of the property, lands, articles,
franchises, and rights which comprise such system may, unless otherwise ordered
by the court, be treated together as one property and an award for the whole
property in one lump sum may be made by the commissioners or other body
assessing the damages on condemnation. This does not prevent the city, when the
plant and property are separable into distinct parts, from acquiring only such
part or parts thereof as may be necessary in the public interest.
CHAPTER 10. FRANCHISES
§ 10.01 FRANCHISES REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person, firm, or corporation shall
place or maintain any permanent or semi-permanent fixtures in, over, upon, or
under any street or public place for the purpose of operating a public utility
or for any other purpose, without a franchise therefor from the city. A
franchise shall be granted only by ordinance which shall not be an emergency
ordinance. Every ordinance granting a franchise shall contain all the terms and
conditions of the franchise. The grantee shall bear the costs of publication of
the franchise ordinance and shall make a sufficient deposit with the clerk to
guarantee publication before the ordinance is passed.
§ 10.02 TERM.
   No perpetual franchise shall ever be granted. No franchise for a term
exceeding 10 years shall be effective until approved by a majority of the
electors voting thereon.
§ 10.03 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   Before any franchise, ordinance is adopted or any rates, fares, or prices to
be charged by a public utility are fixed by the council, the council shall hold
a public hearing on the matter. Notice of such hearing shall be published at
least once in the official newspaper not less than ten days prior to the date
of the hearing.
§ 10.04 POWER OF REGULATION RESERVED.
   Subject to any applicable law the council may by ordinance reasonably
regulate and control the exercise of any franchise including the maximum rates,
fares, or prices to be charged by the grantee. No franchise value shall be
included in the valuation of the grantee's property in regulating utility
rates, fares, or prices under an applicable law, ordinance or regulation or in
proceedings for municipal acquisition of the grantee's property by purchase or
eminent domain.
§ 10.05 RENEWALS OR EXTENSIONS.
   Every extension renewal or modification of any existing franchise or of any
franchise granted hereafter shall be subject to the rules and regulations of
the council.
CHAPTER 11. PUBLIC OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION OF UTILITIES
§ 11.01 ACQUISITION AND OPERATION OF UTILITIES.
   The city may own and operate any gas, water, heat, power, light, telephone
or other public utility for supplying its own needs for utility service or for
supplying utility service to private consumers or both. It may construct all
facilities reasonably needed but no proceedings to acquire any such public
utility shall be consummated unless the city has the money in the treasury to
pay for acquisition or has made provision for paying for the property proposed
to be acquired. The operation of all public utilities owned by the city shall
be under the supervision of the city manager.
§ 11.02 RATES AND FINANCES.
   Upon recommendations made by the city manager or upon its own motion, the
council may fix rates, fares and prices, for municipal utilities but such
rates, fares and prices shall be just and reasonable. In like manner the
council may prescribe the time and manner in which payments for all such
services shall be made and may make such other regulations as may be necessary
and prescribe penalties for violation of such regulations.
§ 11.03 PURCHASE IN BULK.
   The council may, in lieu of providing for the local productions of gas,
electricity, water, and other utilities, purchase the same in bulk and resell
them to local consumers at such rates as it may fix.
§ 11.04 LEASE OF PLANT.
   The council may, if the public interests will be served thereby, contract
with any responsible person, co-partnership, or corporation, for the operation
of any utility owned by the city, upon such rentals and conditions as it may
deem necessary but such contracts shall be embodied in and let only by an
ordinance approved by 4 members of the council and subject to popular
referendum. Such ordinance shall not be an emergency ordinance. In no case
shall such contract be for a longer term than 10 years.
§ 11.05 PUBLIC UTILITY; HOW SOLD.
   No public utility owned by the city shall be sold or otherwise disposed of
by the city unless the full terms of the proposition of sale or other
disposition are embodied in an ordinance approved by a majority of the electors
voting thereon at a general or special election. In the case of a water works
or light plant any sale, lease, or abandonment shall be subject, in addition,
to the requirements of state law.
CHAPTER 12. MISCELLANEOUS AND TRANSITORY PROVISIONS
§ 12.01 OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS.
   The council shall annually designate a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city as its official newspaper in which shall be published
ordinances and other matters required by law to be so published as well as such
other matters as the council may deem it in the public interest to have
published in this manner.
§ 12.02 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every officer of the city shall before entering upon the duties of his
office, take and subscribe an oath of office in substantially the following
form: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) to support the constitution of the
United States and of this state and to discharge faithfully the duties
devolving upon me as (mayor, councilman, city manager, etc.) of the City of
Benson to the best of my judgment and ability.”
§ 12.03 CITY OFFICERS NOT TO BE INTERESTED IN CONTRACTS.
   Except as otherwise permitted by law, no officer of the city who is
authorized to take part in any manner in any contract with the city shall
voluntarily have a personal financial interest in such contract or personally
benefit financially therefrom.
§ 12.04 OFFICIAL BONDS.
   The city manager, the city clerk, the city treasurer, and such other
officers or employees of the city as may be provided for by resolution or
ordinance shall each before entering upon the duties of his respective office
or employment, give a corporate surety bond to the city in such form and in
such amount as may be fixed by the council as security for the faithful
performance of his official duties and the safekeeping of the public funds.
Such bonds may be either individual or blanket bonds at the discretion of the
council. They shall be approved by the city council, and approved as to form by
the city attorney, and filed with the city clerk. The provisions of the laws of
the state relating to official bonds not inconsistent with this charter shall
be complied with. The premiums on such bonds shall be paid by the city.
§ 12.05 SALES OF REAL PROPERTY.
   No real property of the city shall be disposed of except by ordinance. The
proceeds of any sale of such property shall be used as far as possible to
retire any outstanding indebtedness incurred by the city in the purchase,
construction, or improvement of this or other property used for the same public
purpose. If there is no such outstanding indebtedness, the council may by
resolution designate some other public use for the proceeds.
§ 12.06 VACATION OF STREETS.
   The council may by ordinance approved by at least 5 members of the council
vacate any street or alley or part thereof within the city. Such vacation may
be made only after published notice and an opportunity for affected property
owners and public to be heard, and upon such further terms and by such
procedure as the council by ordinance may prescribe. A notice of completion of
such proceedings shall be filed with the proper county officers in accordance
with law.
§ 12.07 CITY TO SUCCEED TO RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF FORMER CITY.
   The city shall succeed to all the property rights, privileges, and shall be
subject to all the legal obligations of the city under the former charter.
§ 12.08 PRESENT OFFICERS TO HOLD OFFICE TILL WHEN.
   The present officers of the city shall continue in their respective offices
and functions, and shall continue to govern the city in the usual manner until
January 1, 1966. They shall make such financial and other provisions for the
fiscal year 1966 as will serve to carry on the government until a government
has been set up under this charter and they shall make provision for the
election of the first city council as provided for in chapter 4 of this
charter.
§ 12.09 STATUTES NOT AFFECTED BY CHARTER.
   All general laws and statutes of the state applicable to all cities
operating under home rule charters, or applicable to cities of the same class
as the City of Benson operating under home rule charters, and not inconsistent
with the provisions of this charter shall apply to the City of Benson and shall
be construed as supplementary to the provisions of this charter.
§ 12.10 EXISTING ORDINANCES CONTINUED.
   All ordinances and regulations of the city in force when this charter takes
effect, and not inconsistent with the provisions thereof, are hereby continued
in full force and effect amended or repealed.
§ 12.11 PENDING CONDEMNATIONS AND ASSESSMENTS.
   Any condemnations or assessment proceeding in progress when this charter
takes effect shall be continued and completed under the laws under which such
proceedings were begun. All assessments made by the city prior to the time when
this charter takes effect shall be collected and the lien thereof enforced in
the same manner as if this charter had not been adopted.
§ 12.12 ORDINANCE TO MAKE CHARTER EFFECTIVE.
   The council shall by ordinance make such regulations as may be necessary to
carry out and make effective the provisions of this charter.
§ 12.13 FIRE DEPARTMENT AND RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   The authority of the council granted by this charter shall include authority
by ordinance to organize or reorganize and create a fire department or a
firemen's Relief Association or both. Any such organization or reorganization,
whether voluntary or otherwise, shall be at all times subject to the full and
complete supervision and control of the City Council.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMMISSION
   We, the undersigned, being the duly appointed, qualified and acting members
of the Board of Freeholders (Charter Commission) in and for the City of Benson,
Swift County, Minnesota, certify that the foregoing document., consisting of 12
sections, is the draft of a proposed new (revised) Charter for said City of
Benson, prepared and framed by said Board of Freeholders and approved by said
Board and the undersigned members thereof, and hereby affix our signatures to
said draft and deliver the same to the Honorable Mayor and chief executive of
the said City of Benson, to be submitted for action as by law provided.
   Dated at Benson, Minnesota, this 6th day of April, 1965.
   ROBERT HAWLEY, Chairman
   ROBERT BUSS, Vice-Chairman
   JOHN THOMPSON, Secretary
   HARRY HUGHES
   HJALMER ERICKSON
   DONN LORENZ
   FRED HANSON
   NOEL DOKKEN
   R.S. KUFRIN
   BERNIE GALLAGHER
   RAYMOND ARNE
   ROBERT NELSON
   ROBERT CHEVALIER
RICHARD BODGER,
RAY HOLMQUIST,
   Attorneys for and members of the Commission.
Amendments to Charter dated:
   November 4, 1982
   March 17, 1983
   May 3, 1983
   June 2, 1983
   September 9, 1983
were approved on said dates by Benson City Council:
   Duaine E. Flanders, Mayor
   Kenneth Angier, Councilmember
   Connie Kiley, Councilmember
   Edwin Johnson, Councilmember
   Donald Thomas, Councilmember
   Edward J. Shukle, Jr., City Manager
Charter Commission:
   Vern Smith, Chairman
   Thomas Buckingham
   Roy DeBoer
   Alwood Dokken
   Dr. Dean Erickson
   Barry Jungwirth
   Connie Kiley
   Dr. Greg Lee
   Tim Mattheisen
   Susan Nelson
   Shirley Peterson
   Dr. Donald Plackner
   Ray Scheffler
   Kenneth Spates
   Donald Wilcox, Member and Assistant City Attorney
   Vic Wordelman
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.19   Copies of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Benson shall be
designated as the Code of Benson, Minnesota, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this municipality shall be by the following rules, unless such construction
is plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or to the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)    AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or,” if the sense requires it.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to
be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Benson,
Minnesota.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Swift County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
   Example:   (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. passed
1-1-80; Am. Ord. passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
   Example:   (M.S. § 609.034) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. passed 1-1-
85)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.
   Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see M.S. §
138.163 et seq.
§ 10.18 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into, or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.19 COPIES OF CODE.
   Copies of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk for public
inspection and sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty for any crime which is a
misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted
by reference, shall be identical to the penalty enumerated in M.S. § 609.02,
Subd. 3, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporate who violates any provision of this code,
including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty for any petty offense which is a petty
misdemeanor shall be identical to the penalty enumerated in M.S. § 609.02,
Subd. 4a, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see M.S. §§ 412.231 and 609.034
CHAPTER 11: CORPORATE SEAL
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The corporate seal of the city shall be as follows: A circular disc,
having engraved thereon the words, “City of Benson, Minnesota, Seal,” and also
having engraved in the center thereof an emblem portraying a plow, railroad
tracks, sheaf of grain, and a silhouette of the city.
   (B)   The seal shall be kept in the custody of the City Manager for the
city.
('75 Code, § 2.901) (Ord. 1010.79, passed 2-1-79)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Salaries
   
30.03   Vacancies in Council
   
30.04   Claims presentation to Council
   
30.05   Appeals of administrative decisions
Cross-reference:
   
City Council generally, see Charter Ch. 2
   
Procedure of Council, ordinances, and resolutions, see Charter Ch. 3
   
Elections, see Charter Ch. 4
   
Referendum, see Charter Ch. 5
   
Administrative code, see Charter § 6.03
   
Eminent domain, see Charter Ch. 9
   
Official newspaper, see Charter § 12.01
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The meetings of the Council shall be held pursuant to the provisions
of the Charter and to resolutions adopted by the Council pursuant to the
Charter.
('75 Code, § 2.101)
   (B)   An inexcusable absence of a Council Member or the Mayor from any
meetings, special or regular, shall result in a fine as may be adopted from
time to time by Council resolution of ordinance levied against the absent
member upon majority vote of those members of the Council present.
('75 Code, § 2.102)
§ 30.02 SALARIES.
   (A)   Mayor. The City Council, pursuant to M.S. § 415.11, shall establish a
salary structure for the Mayor of the city from time to time by ordinance.
   (B)   City Council.   The City Council, pursuant to M.S. § 415.11, shall
establish a salary structure for the Council Members from time to time by
ordinance.
('75 Code, §§ 2.201-2.202) (Ord. 1022.81, passed 9-3-81; Am. Ord. 1095.95,
passed 12-7-95; Am. Ord. 1104.99, passed 9-27-99)
   (C)   Special meetings and committee work. The Mayor and each Council Member
shall receive a compensation set by ordinance in addition to their monthly
salary for each special meeting of the Council or any committee of the Council
to which they are duly appointed that they attend.
('75 Code, § 2.203) (Ord. 1060.87 passed 9-17-87)
   (D)   Other city business. The Mayor and each Councilperson shall receive as
compensation in addition to their monthly salary a sum set by ordinance for
each half day or full day for time spent at meetings or other functions which
principally involve city business, excluding regular or special Council
meetings or any meetings of city boards, commissions, or special committees. No
payment shall be made pursuant to this section without specific authorization
therefore by the City Council.
('75 Code, § 2.204) (Ord. 1060.87 passed 9-17-87)
Cross-reference:
   
Salaries of Mayor and Council, see Charter § 2.07
§ 30.03 VACANCIES IN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Benson, County of Swift, State of Minnesota.
      GENERAL ELECTION. An election held at regular intervals on a day
determined by law or charter at which the voters of the state or any of its
subdivisions choose by ballot public officials or presidential electors.
      SPECIAL ELECTION. An election held at any time to fill vacancies in
public offices.
      VACANCY. Occurs for the reasons stated in the Charter, M.S. § 351.02 or
other state law.
   (B)   Appointment to vacancy. 
      (1)   If less than one year left in term. Pursuant to M.S. § 412.02,
Subd. 2a, a person shall be appointed to fill the remaining term of the
vacancy.
      (2)   If more than one year left in term. Pursuant to M.S. § 412.02,
Subd. 2a, a person shall be appointed to fill the vacancy until the special
election is held and the winner of the special election is qualified to take
office.
   (C)   Special election timing. If a vacancy occurs and a special election to
fill the unexpired term is required pursuant to M.S. § 412.02, Subd. 2a, and
there are more than 365 days until the next general election, then the special
election to fill the vacancy shall be held prior to the general election, but
no later than 120 days after the date of the vacancy.
(Ord. 210, passed 7-19-21)
Cross-reference:
   
Vacancies in the Council, see Charter § 2.05
§ 30.04 CLAIMS PRESENTATION TO COUNCIL.
   All claims and demands against the city shall be presented to and filed with
the Clerk at least five hours before the meeting of the Council at which action
thereon is desired and the same shall be in writing, itemized, and duly
verified.
('75 Code, § 2.401)
§ 30.05 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   If any person shall be aggrieved by any administrative decision of the City
Manager, boards, or commissions, such aggrieved person shall be entitled to a
full hearing before the Council by giving written notice to the Mayor. The
Mayor shall then notify the City Manager who shall set the hearing time on the
agenda of the next meeting of the Council.
('75 Code, § 21.101)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICERS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Assignment of offices; appointment of officers
   
31.02   Duties of officers, employees, and boards generally
City Officers
   
31.15   City Manager
   
31.16   Assistant City Manager
   
31.17   City Clerk
   
31.18   Deputy City Clerk
   
31.19   Treasurer
   
31.20   Utilities Superintendent
   
31.21   Building Inspector
   
31.22   Zoning Administrator
   
31.23   Tax Increment Administrator
   
31.24   Forester
   
31.25   Emergency Services Director
Cross-reference:
   
Subordinate officers, see Charter § 6.04
   
Miscellaneous provisions regarding officers, see Charter Ch. 12
   
City Attorney, see § 32.37
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ASSIGNMENT OF OFFICES; APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   Certain offices established by this chapter of the city code or by other
city ordinances shall be designated to specific division directors or other
employees by this code. This code may further provide certain offices to be
appointed by the City Council. All other offices shall be filled by appointment
by the City Manager.
('75 Code, § 3.500) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Term of appointment of officers, see § 32.01
§ 31.02 DUTIES OF OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND BOARDS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The duties and responsibility of the division directors, department
heads, or boards herein set forth shall not be exclusive, but each appointee,
employee, or elected officer shall be responsible for formulating and
recommending procedures and proposals for the efficient administration of city
affairs and the welfare of the people.
   (B)   Each board, department head, or division director shall be responsible
for the training of personnel assigned to his or her area as well as the
maintenance of the equipment entrusted to him or her.
('75 Code, § 3.600) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Planning; recommended program of public works; duty of officers, departments,
boards, and   
commissions to supply information, see § 152.04(C)
CITY OFFICERS
§ 31.15 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Administration of city.
      (1) The general administration of the city shall be under the direction
and control of a City Manager who shall be appointed by the City Council.
('75 Code, § 3.100)
      (2)   The City Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the
city and shall oversee all administrative functions of the city as well as the
general activities and performance of all city divisions.
('75 Code, § 3.110)
   (B)   Departments. The following departments are assigned to the City
Manager:
      (1)   Police Department;
      (2)   Fire Department;
      (3)   Legal Department.
('75 Code, § 3.111)
   (C)   Offices. The following offices are offices of the City Manager:
      (1)   Deputy City Clerk. The City Manager shall hold the Office of Deputy
City Clerk.
('75 Code, § 3.113)
(Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Oversight of administrative service by City Manager, see Charter § 2.09
   
City Manager, see Charter §§ 6.01 and 6.02
   
City Manager as chief accounting officer; reporting duties, see Charter § 7.12
   
Appeals of administrative decisions of City Manager, see § 30.05
§ 31.16 ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER.
   An Assistant City Manager shall be designated by the City Council and shall
be second in command to the City Manager. The Assistant City Manager shall
perform the duties of the City Manager during his or her absence.
('75 Code, § 3.511) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
§ 31.17 CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk shall perform or supervise all functions as established by
City Charter or the Minnesota Statutes.
('75 Code, § 3.512) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Duties of City Clerk, see Charter § 6.04
   
Director of Finance as City Clerk, see § 32.16
§ 31.18 DEPUTY CITY CLERK.
   There shall be a Deputy City Clerk appointed to serve in the capacity of
City Clerk in the absence of the duly designated City Clerk.
('75 Code, § 3.513) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
§ 31.19 TREASURER.
   The Treasurer shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Maintain custody of all city funds, investments, and securities,
including the deposit, disbursement, and recording thereof;
   (B)   Supervise all accounting operations and maintain the financial
accounts of the city;
   (C)   Prepare financial reports and information as required by the City
Manager or by the Council;
   (D)   Receive and deposit all monies belonging to the city;
   (E)   Prepare all checks for the signature of the Mayor and City Manager for
the disbursement of city funds. No check shall be issued unless there is
sufficient money in said fund for the amount of the check;
   (F)   Audit all bills for their correctness, code all bills, and notify the
City Manager of any errors;
   (G)   Prepare all billing for the city and keep receipts thereof. All unpaid
bills shall be brought to the attention of the City Manager;
   (H)   Perform all other related functions as required by the City Manager or
the Council.
('75 Code, § 3.514) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Taxation and finances, see Charter Ch. 7
   
Director of Finance as Treasurer, see § 32.16
§ 31.20 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Utilities Superintendent shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Prepare an annual budget for all utilities and submit it to the City
Manager for approval by the City Council;
   (B)   Be responsible for all purchases of the utilities and monitoring the
budgets of all utilities;
   (C)   Be responsible for any necessary rate studies and analysis necessary
to assure the city a dependable and adequate financial base for the utilities;
   (D)   Perform all other related functions as required by the City Manager.
('75 Code, § 3.520) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Director of Public Works as Utilities Superintendent, see § 32.17
§ 31.21 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   There shall be a Building Inspector who shall serve as the administrative
authority under the provisions of §
150.02.
('75 Code, § 3.521) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Director of Engineering as Building Inspector, see § 32.18
§ 31.22 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   There shall be a Zoning Administrator who shall serve as the administrative
authority under the provisions of §
154.175.
('75 Code, § 3.522) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Director of Planning and Development as Zoning Administrator, see § 32.19
§ 31.23 TAX INCREMENT ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Increment Administrator shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Maintain all records regarding tax increment financing under the
city's development districts;
   (B)   Promote the use of tax increment financing as a redevelopment and
economic development program;
   (C)   Coordinate all valuations regarding tax increment districts with the
County Auditor;
   (D)   Perform all other related functions as required by the City Manager.
('75 Code, § 3.523) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Director of Planning and Development as Tax Increment Administrator, see §
32.19
§ 31.24 FORESTER.
   There shall be a City Forester who shall perform the duties set forth in §
94.01.
('75 Code, § 3.525) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
§ 31.25 EMERGENCY SERVICES DIRECTOR.
   The Emergency Services Director shall perform all functions described under
§§
36.02 and
36.03.
('75 Code, § 3.530) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Emergency Services Commission, see § 32.56
   
Emergency Management, see Ch. 36
CHAPTER 32: DIVISIONS; DEPARTMENTS; BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Term of appointment
   
32.02   Term limits
Divisions
   
32.15   Establishment; organization
   
32.16   Division of Finance
   
32.17   Division of Public Works
   
32.18   Division of Engineering
   
32.19   Division of Planning and Development
Departments
   
32.30   Establishment; organization
   
32.31   Municipal Liquor Operations Department
   
32.32   Billings Office Department
   
32.33   Street Department
   
32.34   Water and Wastewater Department
   
32.35   Electric Service Department
   
32.36   Parks Department
   
32.37   Legal Department
Boards and Commissions
   
32.50   Establishment; organization
   
32.51   Library Board
   
32.52   Park Board
   
32.53   Airport Commission
   
32.54   Economic Development Authority
   
32.55   Cemetery Commission
   
32.56   Emergency Services Commission
   
32.57   Utilities Board
Cross-reference:
   
Limitation on boards and commissions, see Charter § 2.02
   
Creation of divisions and departments; administrative code, see Charter § 6.03
   
Board of Equalization, see Charter § 7.04
   
Appeals of administrative decisions of boards and commissions, see § 30.05
   
Duties of officers, employees, and boards generally, see § 31.02
   
Police and Fire Departments, see Ch. 33
   
Planning Commission, see § 152.01 et seq.
   
Swift County-Benson Hospital Commission, see T.S.O. Table II
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 TERM OF APPOINTMENT.
   All members of boards and commissions shall be appointed for one year
beginning January 1 and ending December 31, except as herein provided, or until
their successors are duly appointed and qualified. All paid appointive officers
and department heads shall be appointed for an indeterminate term, and their
employment may be terminated at any time at the pleasure of the Council.
('75 Code, § 2.301)
§ 32.02 TERM LIMITS.
   All members of any board or commission who are appointed to serve thereon by
the City Council, except the hospital board, shall be hereafter prohibited from
serving on any one of said boards or commissions for more than two consecutive
terms of office. Provided, however, that any person who has previously served
on such boards or commissions upon the expiration of one year or more after his
or her two consecutive terms of office has terminated, a person shall become
eligible for reappointment to a board or commission on which they have
previously served two terms, one year after the term has expired. The
limitation to term of membership as hereinabove set forth shall not apply to ex
officio or non-voting members of said boards or commissions. This provision
shall take effect on and after January 1, 2025.
(‘75 Code, § 2.302) (Ord. 1061.88, passed 1-7-88; Am. Ord. 1163.24, passed 11-
18-24)
DIVISIONS
§ 32.15 ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   The city shall be divided into four Divisions with each division responsible
for the operations of certain departments, boards and commissions, offices,
programs, or other functions of the city. Each division shall be headed by a
division director each of whom shall be under the direct supervision of the
City Manager. The divisions are as follows:
 
Division                 Division
                         Director
Finance                  Director of Finance
Public Works             Director of Public Works
Engineering              Director of Engineering
Planning and Development Director of Planning and Development
 
('75 Code, § 3.200) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
§ 32.16 DIVISION OF FINANCE.
   (A)   Director of Finance. The Division of Finance shall be under the
direction of the Director of Finance.
   (B)   Departments. The following departments are departments within the
Division of Finance:
      (1)   Municipal Liquor Operations Department;
      (2)   Billings Office Department.
   (C)   Other offices of Director. The following offices are offices of the
Director of Finance:
      (1)   Treasurer. The Director of Finance shall hold the Office of
Treasurer.
      (2)   City Clerk. The Director of Finance shall hold the Office of City
Clerk.
('75 Code, §§ 3.210, 3.211, and 3.213) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
City Clerk, see § 31.17
   
Treasurer, see § 31.19
§ 32.17 DIVISION OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Director of Public Works. The Division of Public Works shall be under
the direction of the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Departments. The following departments are departments within the
Division of Public Works:
      (1)   Street Department;
      (2)   Water and Wastewater Department;
      (3)   Electric Service Department;
      (4)   Parks Department.
   (C)   Boards and commissions. The following boards or commissions are
assigned to the Division of Public Works:
      (1)   Park Board;
      (2)   Cemetery Commission;
      (3)   Utilities Board;
      (4)   Airport Commission.
   (D)   Other offices of Director. The following offices are offices of the
Director of Public Works:
      (1)   Utilities Superintendent. The Director of Public Works shall hold
the Office of Utilities Superintendent.
('75 Code, §§ 3.220-3.223) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
§ 32.18 DIVISION OF ENGINEERING.
   (A)   Director of Engineering. The Division of Engineering shall be under
the direction of the Director of Engineering.
   (B)   Boards and commissions. The following boards and commissions are
assigned to the Division of Engineering:
      (1)   Airport Commission.
   (C)   Other offices of Director. The following offices are offices of the
Director of Engineering:
      (1)   Building Inspector. The Director of Engineering shall hold the
Office of Building Inspector.
   (D)   Programs, functions, and activities. The following programs,
functions, and activities are assigned to the Director of Engineering:
      (1)   Engineering functions. The Director of Engineering shall be
responsible for the coordination of all engineering activities including but
not limited to:
         (a)   Supervising the planning, construction, maintenance, and
operation of all streets, alleys, sidewalks, storm sewers, airports, traffic
signals, sanitary sewers, and other projects of the city;
         (b)   Establishing street and sidewalk grades;
         (c)   Performing any other related duties and functions as required by
the City Manager.
      (2)   Building permits and inspection functions.  The Director of
Engineering shall be responsible for all activities relating to the building
code and all inspections, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Reviewing all building applications and considering them for
approval based on the building codes of the state;
         (b)   Inspecting all construction occurring within the city for
compliance with all state codes for building, plumbing, energy, HVAC, and any
other appropriate codes of construction;
         (c)   Issuing occupancy permits upon completion of construction in
accordance with all appropriate codes;
         (d)   Providing inspection services for codes hereafter adopted by the
city;
         (e)   Performing any other related duties and functions as required by
the City Manager.
      (3)   Assessment Functions. The Director of Engineering shall be
responsible for all activities relating to assessments including but not
limited to:
         (a)   Overseeing contractual performance with the county for all
property valuation functions;
         (b)   Computing and preparing special assessment rolls for all public
improvements requiring assessment of property within the city. Assessments must
first be recommended to City Council and certified to the county upon Council
approval;
         (c)   Performing any other related duties and functions as required by
the City Manager.
      (4) Airport program. The Director of Engineering shall be responsible for
all programs or functions relating to the airport, including but not limited
to:
         (a)   Overseeing the contractual performance of the Airport Manager;
         (b)   Maintenance of all public facilities at the airport and
enforcement of all maintenance standards of non-public facilities located on
airport property;
         (c)   Recommending to the City Manager and City Council any
improvements necessary to the facility to assure continual safety and service
to the community;
         (d)   Overseeing all contracts for use of city property located at the
airport;
         (e)   Serving as the city's staff liaison to the Airport Commission
and coordinating all meetings and activities of the Commission;
         (f)   Performing any other related duties and functions as required by
the City Manager.
('75 Code, §§ 3.230, 3.232-3.234) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Building Inspector, see § 31.21
   
Engineering Division as Building Code Department, see § 150.02
   
Adoption by reference of Airport Zoning Ordinance, see § 154.004
§ 32.19 DIVISION OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Director. The Division of Planning and Development shall be under the
direction of the Director of Planning and Development.
   (B)   Boards and commissions. The following boards and commissions are
assigned to the Division of Planning and Development:
      (1)   Planning Commission;
      (2)   Economic Development Authority.
   (C)   Other offices of Director.   The following offices are offices of the
Director of Planning and Development:
      (1)   Zoning Administrator. The Director of Planning and Development
shall hold the Office of Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Tax Increment Administrator. The Director of Planning and
Development shall hold the Office of Tax Increment Administrator.
   (D)   Programs, functions, and activities. The following programs,
functions, and activities are assigned to the Division of Planning and
Development:
      (1)   Economic development programs. Economic development programs shall
be under the direct supervision of the Director of Planning and Development.
Responsibilities include:
         (a)   Meeting and discussing business development/expansion with local
and prospective businesses;
         (b)   Exploring methods of economic assistance as incentives to
economic development in the city;
         (c)   Establishing and implementing plans and procedures for the
economic development of the city;
         (d)   Discovering and identifying community needs, and developing
plans, programs, and resources to meet such needs;
         (e)   Administering the Tax Increment Financing Program as an economic
development program for the city;
         (f)   Serving as the city's staff liaison to the Economic Development
Authority, and coordinating all meetings and activities of the Authority;
         (g)   Performing any other related duties and functions as required by
the City Manager.
      (2)   Planning Functions. Planning functions shall be under the direct
supervision of the Director of Planning and Development. Responsibilities
include:
         (a)   Coordinating all city planning activities for development;
         (b)   Providing initiatives, direction, and assistance in the
development and administration of land use planning for the city;
         (c)   Providing direction and assistance to the City Planning
Commission in the performance of its duties;
         (d)   Serving as the City Planner and city staff liaison to the
Planning Commission, and coordinating all meetings and activities of the
Planning Commission;
         (e)   Performing any other related duties and functions as required by
the City Manager.
('75 Code, §§ 3.240, 3.242-3.244) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Zoning Administrator, see § 31.22
   
Tax Increment Administrator, see § 31.23
DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.30 ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   The city shall further be divided into certain departments established by
this chapter or other ordinances of the city. Each department so established
shall be assigned to one of the four divisions or directly to the City Manager.
Those departments not specifically assigned to a division or to the City
Manager may be assigned by the City Manager. Each department shall be headed by
a department supervisor.
('75 Code, § 3.300) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
§ 32.31 MUNICIPAL LIQUOR OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT.
   The Municipal Liquor Operations Department shall be under the direction of
the Liquor Store Manager who shall serve as the department supervisor. This
Department shall be responsible for the operations of the Municipal Liquor
Dispensary including both “on-sale” and “off-sale” operations as defined under
§
110.45 et seq.
('75 Code, § 3.310) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Municipal Liquor Dispensary, see § 110.45 et seq.
§ 32.32 BILLINGS OFFICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Billings Office Department shall be under the direction of the Billings
Office Supervisor. The Department shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Provide all billing operations for the city, including all utilities,
special assessments, sales, or other special billings;
   (B)   Monitor all load management functions of the city's electric utility;
   (C)   Serve as the collection department for taxes, special assessments,
licenses and permits, rental fees, utility accounts (current and delinquent),
and any other collection function identified and assigned by the Director of
Finance.
('75 Code, § 3.320) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
§ 32.33 STREET DEPARTMENT.
   The Street Department shall be under the direction of the Director of Public
Works. This Department shall be responsible for:
   (A)   Maintaining all streets, alleys, easements, boulevards, and other
services such as storm sewers, airport, library, warehouses, and general
government buildings;
   (B)   The maintenance and repair of all city-owned equipment other than
utility equipment;
   (C)   The control of weeds, mosquitoes, and rodents;
   (D)   Supervision of the city landfill and solid waste collection;
   (E)   Plowing and cleaning of city streets;
   (F)   Performing any other related duties and functions as required by the
Director of Public Works.
('75 Code, § 3.330) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Streets and sidewalks, see Ch. 92
§ 32.34 WATER AND WASTEWATER DEPARTMENT.
   The Water and Wastewater Department shall be under the direction of the
Water and Wastewater Supervisor. This Department shall be responsible for:
   (A)   The maintenance of the entire water distribution infrastructure of the
city including all wells, pumps, water treatment and filtration facilities,
distribution lines, and storage tanks;
   (B)   Maintaining the entire wastewater collection and treatment
infrastructure of the city, including all sanitary sewer lines, lift stations,
and laboratory and treatment facilities;
   (C)   Performing any other related duties as required by the Director of
Public Works.
('75 Code, § 3.340) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Sewer, see Ch. 52
§ 32.35 ELECTRIC SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Electric Service Department shall be under the direction of the Electric
Service Supervisor. This Department shall be responsible for:
   (A)   The maintenance of the electrical generation facilities;
   (B)   Maintaining the electric distribution infrastructure of the city;
   (C)   The maintenance of the head-end where all city electricity is received
from the city's transmission agent;
   (D)   The maintenance and installation of all electric meters;
   (E)   Construction of new electric lines as required and integration of
those lines into the existing electrical distribution infrastructure;
   (F)   Performing any other related duties as required by the Director of
Public Works.
('75 Code, § 3.350) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Utilities, see Ch. 50
§ 32.36 PARKS DEPARTMENT.
   The Parks Department shall be under the direction of the Parks Supervisor.
This Department shall be responsible for:
   (A)   Maintaining all city parks and facilities including: parks,
campgrounds, swimming pools, playgrounds, and skating rinks;
   (B)   Providing the city's staff liaison to the Park Board and coordinating
all meetings and activities of the Park Board;
   (C)   Providing the Cemetery Supervisor and the city's staff liaison to the
Cemetery Commission, and coordinating all meetings and activities of the
Cemetery Commission;
   (D)   Performing any other related duties as required by the Director of
Public Works.
('75 Code, § 3.360) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
§ 32.37 LEGAL DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established a Legal Department for the city. The head of
this Department shall be the City Attorney who shall serve at the pleasure of
the Council and City Manager. The Legal Department shall:
   (A)   Represent the city in all matters in which the city has an interest
coming before any court or tribunal;
   (B)   Take charge of and conduct all prosecutions for the violations of all
ordinances, resolutions, and statutes involving misdemeanors;
   (C)   Advise the Council, City Manager, Police Department, Utilities Board,
and Planning Commission in all cases when legal opinion is required or
requested;
   (D)   Draft all deeds, leases, contracts, resolutions, and other legal
instruments as required;
   (E)   Call to the attention of the Council and the City Manager all matters
of law affecting the city or its officers;
   (F)   Administer oaths as may be required;
   (G)   Perform such other related duties as may hereafter be requested.
('75 Code, § 3.390) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Oversight of Legal Department by City Manager, see § 31.15
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.50 ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   All boards or commissions established by ordinance under any portion of the
code may be assigned by ordinance to a division. The division director shall be
responsible for each such board or commission and each shall be staffed by the
division director or his or her designee. Those boards or commissions not so
assigned shall be the direct responsibility of the City Manager who in turn
shall assign staffing.
('75 Code, § 3.400) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
§ 32.51 LIBRARY BOARD.
   The Library Board of six members is hereby established for the operation of
the Benson Public Library. The Council shall appoint two members each year for
a three-year term. The duties of the Library Board are to:
   (A)   Establish written rules and regulations for the use, management, and
operation of the public library. All rules adopted must be confirmed by the
City Manager and approved by the Council;
   (B)   Make recommendations to the Council for the improvement of the
library;
   (C)   Deposit all monies received with the Treasurer;
   (D)   Hold monthly meetings at a time regularly established and approved,
and hold such special meetings as necessary for the conduct of its business;
   (E)   Report to the City Manager at least two days before the first
regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council as follows:
      (1)   A true copy of the minutes of all meetings held during the
preceding month;
      (2)   A statement of request for payment;
      (3)   A report of proposed activities or other activities;
   (F)   Advance the use of the library so that its facilities may become more
of an asset to the community.
('75 Code, § 3.420) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
§ 32.52 PARK BOARD.
   (A)   Appointment of members. The Council shall appoint six persons to act
as members of the Park Board. Two shall be appointed each year at staggered
terms and each shall serve for a term of three years. They shall be appointed
for calendar years.
   (B)   Meetings; administrative rules and matters. The Park Board shall
determine the place of its meetings and shall adopt its own rules and
regulations governing such meetings. It shall submit a budget for the coming
year (calendar) to the City Manager and shall appoint such officers and
committees as required.
   (C)   Operations. The Park Board shall recommend such action as it shall
deem necessary in order to carry on its functions and purposes. The
compensation to be paid all such employees shall be fixed by the Council. All
disbursements for park purposes shall be paid from the proceeds of the Park
Board.
   (D)   Authority. The Park Board shall have supervision over all city parks,
playgrounds, swimming pools, golf courses, skating rinks, summer and winter
recreation programs, and such other related functions as may be required. This
shall include the use, function, constitution, and maintenance of all the
above-mentioned functions.
('75 Code, § 3.430) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
§ 32.53 AIRPORT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment; appointment of members. There is hereby created and
established a Benson Airport Commission which shall consist of six members, all
of whom must be residents of the city. The members shall be appointed by the
Council and may be removed by a four-fifths vote of the Council. Of the members
of the Commission first appointed, two shall be appointed for a term of one
year, two for a term of two years, and two for a term of three years. Their
successors shall be appointed for terms of three years. Both original and
successive appointees shall hold their offices until their successors are
appointed and qualified. Vacancies during any term shall be filled by the
Council for the unexpired portion of the term. All members shall serve without
compensation.
   (B)   Officers. The Airport Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among
its appointed members for a term of one year and may create and fill such other
offices as it may determine.
   (C)   Meetings; administrative rules and matters. The Airport Commission
shall hold regular meetings at least once every two months and shall adopt
rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a public record of its
resolutions, transactions, and findings.
   (D)   Recommendations to Council. The Airport Commission shall make
recommendations to the Council for the use, management, and operation of the
airport and shall advise the Council in all matters concerning the Airport.
('75 Code, § 3.440) (Ord. 1031.83, passed 1-20-83; Am. Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-
7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Adoption by reference of Airport Zoning Ordinance, see § 154.004
§ 32.54 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Establishment; appointment of members. There is hereby created an
Economic Development Authority consisting of five commissioners appointed by
the City Council, two of whom shall initially serve for a term of four years,
and the remainder for terms of one, two, and three years respectively.
Thereafter, all commissioners shall be appointed for four-year terms. Each
vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner in which the
original appointment was made. Members of the City Council shall be eligible to
serve as commissioners. All commissioners shall serve without compensation, but
shall be entitled to receive necessary expenses (including travel expenses)
needed for the performance of their duties.
   (B)   Officers; administrative rules; meetings. The Economic Development
Authority shall select a Chairperson and a Secretary from among its
commissioners to serve for a one-year term and shall adopt such rules for the
conduct of its affairs as it deems appropriate. It shall meet upon the call and
notice of its Chairperson.
   (C)   Purposes and powers of the Economic Development Authority.
      (1)   The Authority shall initiate, receive, discover, propose, and
recommend economic or job development projects for the city and its surrounding
area.
      (2)   The Authority shall consider and receive proposals for economic or
job development projects within the city or its surrounding area.
      (3)   The Authority shall discover resources and methods to provide
funding and other assistance to accomplish the purposes of this section.
      (4)   The Authority shall do any and all other things necessary and
proper to carry out and fulfill the purposes of this section.
      (5)   The Authority shall act only in an advisory capacity to the City
Council and shall have no power to legislate or transact any business for the
city.
('75 Code, § 3.450) (Ord. 1049.84, passed 7-12-84; Am. Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-
7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Economic development, see Ch. 151
§ 32.55 CEMETERY COMMISSION.
   A Cemetery Commission is hereby established for the purpose of advising and
assisting the City Council and the Superintendent of the City Cemetery in the
administration, maintenance, and improvement of the Benson City Cemetery. This
Commission shall be the same as the Cemetery Committee established under §
91.15.
('75 Code, § 3.460) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Cemeteries, see Ch. 91
§ 32.56 EMERGENCY SERVICES COMMISSION.
   There is hereby established a Emergency Services Commission which shall
serve in the same capacity as the Civil Defense Advisory Committee established
under §
36.02.
('75 Code, § 3.470) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Emergency Management, see Ch. 36
§ 32.57 UTILITIES BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment; appointment of members. The Utilities Board is hereby
established for the purpose of advising and assisting the City Council and
Director of Public Works in the administration and improvement of public
utilities within the city. It shall consist of no less than three nor more than
five members all of whom are residents of the city and who are appointed for
staggered three-year terms. Initial appointment to the Board shall be for one
one-year term, one two-year term, and one three-year term.
   (B)   Meetings; administrative rules. The Utilities Board shall meet monthly
at a time and place determined by its members. It shall adopt its own rules and
regulations governing the conduct of its meetings.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)    The Utilities Board shall have the following duties and
responsibilities:
         (a)   To make recommendations to the Director of Public Works and City
Council for the use and management of public utilities in the city including
electricity, water, sanitary sewer, and all other utilities operating within
the limits of the city;
         (b)   To conduct reviews of rates, budget, engineering and service
agreements;
         (c)   To review and make recommendations concerning policies and
procedures and capital outlay planning;
         (d)   To perform other duties as prescribed by the City Council.
      (2)   In carrying out its duties the Utilities Board shall act in an
advisory capacity only and shall have no power or authority to legislate or
conduct business on behalf of the city.
('75 Code, § 3.480) (Ord. 1093.95, passed 10-19-95)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Establishment; duties
   
33.02   Police Chief
Fire Department
   
33.15   Establishment
   
33.16   Membership, organization, funding, and the like
   
33.17   Duties of Chief or officer in command
   
33.18   Duties of members
   
33.19   Prohibited interference with operations and equipment
   
33.20   Establishing fees for emergency protection fire services
Unclaimed Property
   
33.30   Statutory authorization
   
33.31   Definitions
   
33.32   Custody of property
   
33.33   Attempt to find owner
   
33.34   Disposal of property
   
33.35   Proceeds of sale
Cross-reference:
   
Fire Department, see Charter § 12.13
   
Oversight of Police and Fire Departments by City Manager, see § 31.15
   
Special police for civil defense, see § 36.08
   
Abandoned vehicles, see Ch. 95
   
Fire prevention, see Ch. 96
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT; DUTIES.
   The Police Department, under the supervision of the Police Chief, shall
consist of such forces of officers and men and women as may be recommended by
the Chief and approved by the City Council. The Police Department shall perform
the following duties and functions:
   (A)   Enforce the laws and ordinances of the state and city;
   (B)   Prevent crime and maintain the peace;
   (C)   Protect lives and property from malicious damage and injury;
   (D)   Maintain and care for all property assigned to the Police Department;
   (E)   Prepare and maintain all necessary records pertaining to the Police
Department;
   (F)   Report to the City Manager all defective streets, sidewalks, traffic
signs, unlit lights, and other similar type information as soon as possible;
   (G)   Take steps to insure people are properly protected from hazards such
as ditches, holes in the street, sinkings, and the like;
   (H)   Enforce laws and direct traffic in times of emergency, heavy
concentrations of traffic, or special occasions;
   (I)   Provide a good public image and perform such other duties as may
hereafter be required.
('75 Code, § 11.101)
§ 33.02 POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Department shall be under the direct supervision of the Police
Chief, whose responsibilities include:
   (A)   Supervising and scheduling all police officers and patrol activities;
   (B)   Serving as liaison on all public safety matters with the County
Sheriff's Department;
   (C)   Performing any other related duties and functions as required by the
City Manager.
('75 Code, § 3.370) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
Cross-reference:
   
Weapons permits; issuance by Chief of Police, see § 132.05
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There shall be a volunteer fire department in the city to be known and
designated as the “Benson Fire Department,” and it shall consist of a Chief,
Assistant Chief, and 33 other individuals to be divided into such companies as
they, by their constitution and bylaws, may decide. Firefighters and
probationary firefighters shall be appointed by the Chief of the Volunteer Fire
Department, subject to confirmation by the City Council. Firefighters shall
continue as members of the Volunteer Fire Department during good behavior until
retirement, but may be removed by the City Council for cause after a public
hearing.
('75 Code, § 3.380) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88; Am. Ord. 1081.92, passed 10-
15-92)
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall have general superintendence over the Fire
Department and the custody of all property used and maintained for the purpose
of said Department. He or she shall see that the same are kept in order and
that all rules and regulations of the city and the state are enforced. On or
before the date of the first regular meeting of each month, the Fire Chief
shall file a report with the City Manager showing the number of fires and
rescues attended, and the location, name, estimated damages, and probable cause
of each call. He or she shall file such other reports as required and forward
all calls of the Department along with said report.
('75 Code, § 11.301) (Ord. 1081.92, passed 10-15-92)
§ 33.16 MEMBERSHIP, ORGANIZATION, FUNDING, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief and Assistant Chief shall be elected by ballot of the
Fire Department at their annual meeting and shall hold their respective offices
for two years and until their successors are elected and have qualified. The
other officers shall be elected and appointed according to the bylaws of the
Department. All officers elected or appointed under this section shall enter
upon the duties of their respective offices at noon of the day following the
day on which they were elected or appointed.
      (2)   The succession of authority during the absence of the Chief and the
Assistant Chief shall be as provided in the bylaws of the Department.
      (3)    Salaries shall be designated by resolution at each annual meeting
of the Department, and are subject to the approval of the Council. The salaries
and expenses for equipment and maintenance of the Department shall be provided
for and paid from the general revenue of the city. Members shall be paid for
attending meetings and fires as fixed by the constitution and bylaws.
      (4)   The Department shall be governed by a constitution and bylaws,
which the Department shall adopt by majority vote, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this code or resolution of the City Council.
('75 Code, § 3.381) (Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-7-88; Am. Ord. 1081.92, passed 10-
15-92)
   (B)   No person shall retain membership in the Department who shall fail to
comply with the constitution and bylaws of the Fire Department, except those
excused by the Chief or officer in command.
('75 Code, § 11.304) (Ord. 1081.92, passed 10-15-92)
§ 33.17 DUTIES OF CHIEF OR OFFICER IN COMMAND.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief or officer in command shall have full power and
control of all apparatus, companies, and persons whatsoever at every fire or
rescue, and shall direct their operations.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Chief or commanding officer to take
such measures as he or she may deem necessary at any fire or rescue for the
preservation of or protection of life or property.
      (3)   The Chief shall, as often as he or she may deem necessary, examine
the whole or any part of the fire and rescue apparatus of the city, and it
shall be the Chief's duty to see that the same is in proper condition and
repair at all times, and if upon examination any part of such apparatus be
found out of order or unsuitable, the Chief shall at once report the same to
the City Manager.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief to keep a book which shall be
provided by the city containing a true list of the names of all officers and
members of the Fire Department; the number of fires and rescues occurring each
and every calendar year; the date of the same; the cause of the same as near as
can be ascertained; the number of buildings injured or destroyed; the names of
the owners and occupants; and the value of the property destroyed as near as
can be ascertained, a copy of which he or she shall present to the City Council
at its first regular meeting in February of each and every year, and the same
shall be filed thereafter in the office of the City Clerk.
('75 Code, §§ 11.302-11.303) (Ord. 1081.92, passed 10-15-92)
§ 33.18 DUTIES OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of all officers and members of the Department upon the
alarm of fire or rescue to assemble and perform their duties as provided as
quickly as possible and continue on duty until discharged by the Chief or
person in command and also meet for practice or inspection at such times as may
be ordered by the Chief.
('75 Code, § 11.305) (Ord. 1081.92, passed 10-15-92)
§ 33.19 PROHIBITED INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATIONS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall willfully or intentionally make or cause to be made a
false alarm of fire.
   (B)   No person shall willfully remove, displace, injure, disable, or
destroy any engine, hose cart truck, hose, hooks, ladders, or any apparatus or
article kept for use in the extinguishment of fires.
('75 Code, § 11.306) (Ord. 1081.92, passed 10-15-92)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 33.20 ESTABLISHING FEES FOR EMERGENCY PROTECTION FIRE SERVICES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This section is adopted pursuant to M.S. §§
366.011, 366.012, and 415.01 for the purpose of establishing fees charged by
the City of Benson for fire service.
   (B)    Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT. A contract between the city and a town or other
city for the city to provide fire service.
      FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or equipment
to extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to
protect equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire. It also
includes the deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or equipment to provide
fire suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire
and rescue as may occasionally occur.
      FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes semi trailers. It does
not include snowmobiles, manufactured homes, all terrain vehicles, or park
trailers.
      MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a town or other
city for the city’s Fire Department to provide assistance to the fire
department of a town or other city.
   (C)   Parties affected.
      (1)   Owners of property within the city who receive fire service.
      (2)    Anyone who receives fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire within the city.
      (3)   Owners of property in towns or cities to which the city provides
fire service pursuant to a fire protection contract.
   (D)   Rates. The rates for fire service charge shall be determined by the
City Council and set by resolution.
   (E)   Billing and collection.
      (1)   Parties requesting and receiving fire services may be billed
directly by the city within 30 days of the fire service. Additionally, if the
party receiving fire services did not request services but a fire or other
event exists which, at the discretion of the fire department personnel in
charge requires fire service, the party will be charged and billed. All parties
will be billed whether or not the fire service is covered by insurance. Any
billable amount of the fire charge not covered by a party’s insurance remains a
debt of the party receiving the fire service.
      (2)   Parties billed for fire service will have 30 days to pay. If the
fire service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent
and the city will send a notice of delinquency.
      (3)    If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
      (4)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the
notice of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before October
15 of each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the County Auditor
in which the recipient of the services owns real property for collection with
property taxes. The County Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all
charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner
notice of its intent to certify the unpaid fire service charge by September 15.
      (5)   False alarms will be billed as a fire call.
   (F) Mutual aid agreement. When the City Fire Department provides fire
service pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the billing will be determined by
the mutual aid agreement.
   (G) Fire protection contracts. When the City Fire Department provides fire
service pursuant to a fire protection contract, the billing will be determined
by the contract.
   (H) Application of collections to budget. All collected fire charges will be
city funds and used to offset the expenses of the City Fire Department in
providing fire services.
(Ord. 1126.07, passed 11-13-07)
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
§ 33.30 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to and in accordance with the authority
contained in M.S. § 471.195.
('75 Code, § 2.601) (Ord. 1079.92, passed 9-17-92)
§ 33.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. Any person having a legal or equitable interest in any property
affected by this subchapter.
   PROPERTY. Tangible personal property.
('75 Code, § 2.602) (Ord. 1079.92, passed 9-17-92)
§ 33.32 CUSTODY OF PROPERTY.
   Whenever the city in the course of its municipal operations shall come into
possession of property owned by another such property shall be delivered to the
Chief of the Police Department for safekeeping.
('75 Code, § 2.603) (Ord. 1079.92, passed 9-17-92)
§ 33.33 ATTEMPT TO FIND OWNER.
   Upon receipt of any such property, the Chief of Police shall make or cause
to be made a reasonable and diligent effort to find the rightful owner of such
property. If the rightful owner of such property is found, the Chief of Police
shall return the property to such owner as soon as is reasonably possible under
the circumstances.
('75 Code, § 2.604) (Ord. 1079.92, passed 9-17-92)
§ 33.34 DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in subsections (B) and (C) of this section,
if the owner of any property coming into possession of the city cannot be found
within 60 days after the date such property came into possession of the city,
the Chief of Police shall sell or cause to be sold such property to the highest
bidder at public auction or by sealed bids.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the holding of any public auction
shall be published once a week for two consecutive weeks in the official
newspaper of the city. At the time and place designated in such notice, the
Chief of Police or his duly authorized representative shall conduct the auction
in such manner as the Chief of Police shall deem appropriate under the
circumstances.
      (3)   Notice of a sale of such property by sealed bids shall be published
once a week for two consecutive weeks in the official newspaper of the city and
posted in the city hall and at such other locations as the Chief of Police
shall determine to be advisable.
   (B)   If any item of unclaimed property in possession of the city appears to
have a value as may be adopted from time to time by Council resolution or
ordinance, is hazardous to store, or is perishable, the Chief of Police or his
or her authorized representative may sell or otherwise dispose of such property
in whatever manner the Chief of Police determines reasonable and appropriate.
   (C)   Unclaimed handguns in the possession of the city shall be sold only to
gun dealers licensed by the federal government.
('75 Code, § 2.605) (Ord. 1079.92, passed 9-17-92)
§ 33.35 PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   (A)   (1)   The proceeds of the sale of any item of property made pursuant
to this subchapter shall be first applied to the payment of all costs and
charges incurred for the storage, maintenance, or otherwise in connection with
such property and then to payment of such item's proportionate share of the
expenses incurred by the city in connection with such sale. For purposes of the
preceding sentence “proportionate share of expenses of sale” of each item shall
be determined by dividing the sale price of each item by the total of all sales
and multiplying the result by the total expense of conducting the sale.
      (2)   The balance of the proceeds of the sale of each item shall be
deposited by the Chief of Police with the City Clerk along with a statement
containing a description of the property sold, the gross amount for which it
was sold, the amount of charges incurred in connection with such property, and
the proportionate share of the costs of sale of such item.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall keep such records necessary to account for the
proceeds of the sale of each item. Such proceeds shall be invested in whatever
manner is determined appropriate by the City Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   If the owner of any property sold pursuant to this subchapter
shall furnish the City Clerk with evidence substantiating his or her claim of
ownership of such property within six months after the proceeds from the sale
of such property were deposited with the City Clerk, then the City Clerk shall
pay to such owner the balance of the proceeds of the sale of such property
deposited by the Chief of Police with the City Clerk under subsection (A)
hereof and shall provide such owner with a copy of the statement provided by
the Chief of Police to the City Clerk under subsection (A) hereof.
      (2)   (a)   If no claim is made for the proceeds of any sale of property
made pursuant to this subchapter within six months after the proceeds were
deposited with the City Clerk, then such proceeds shall thereupon become the
property of the city to the exclusion of the owner of such property and all
others.
         (b)   All such proceeds that become the property of the city shall be
credited to the General Fund of the city.
('75 Code, §§ 2.607-2.608) (Ord. 1079.92, passed 9-17-92)
CHAPTER 34: REVENUE AND FINANCE
Section
   
34.01   Incidental Fund
   
34.02   Bids and contracts
Cross-reference:
   
Purchases and contracts, see Charter §§ 6.05 and 6.06
   
Taxation and finances, see Charter Ch. 7
   
Public improvements and special assessments, see Charter Ch. 8
   
Eminent domain, see Charter and Ch. 9
   
Franchises, see Charter Ch. 10
   
Public ownership and operation of utilities, see Charter Ch. 11
   
Sale of real property, see Charter § 12.05
   
Treasurer, see § 31.19
   
Tax Increment Administrator, see § 31.23
   
Division of Finance, see § 32.16
   
Duties of Director of Engineering regarding assessments, see § 32.18
   
Billings Office Department, see § 32.32
§ 34.01 INCIDENTAL FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There is hereby established a fund of the city to be
known or designated as the Incidental Fund, from which the City Manager is
authorized and empowered to make payment for small and petty claims and
accounts against the city or to advance sums necessary to meet the expenses of
the City Manager, Mayor, or Council Members in carrying out their official
duties. This fund shall not exceed the sum as may be amended from time to time
by Council resolution or ordinance and may be kept in a separate bank account
or accounts by the Manager.
   (B)   Appropriation for Fund. There shall be appropriated out of the General
Fund of the city from sums not otherwise appropriated to the Incidental Fund
and there shall be appropriated out of the Water and Light Fund of the city
from sums not otherwise appropriated to the Incidental Fund, such sums may be
adopted from time to time by Council resolution or ordinance.
   (C)   Use of Fund. The City Manager shall pay such small and petty bills and
accounts or advance such sums necessary for expenses out of the Incidental Fund
as may be expedient and necessary during each month after the establishment of
the Fund; and at the following meeting after such payments or advances, the
City Manager shall file and present to the Council a full and complete
statement of the sums so paid out of the Incidental Fund, together with
receipts for the same, which claims and statements shall be audited and allowed
or rejected by the Council, and when allowed, the amount shall be reimbursed
and repaid to the Incidental Fund, and when rejected, the amount shall be
repaid to the Fund by the City Manager, thereby maintaining the Fund from month
to month for the purpose herein established.
('75 Code, §§ 4.101-4.103) (Ord. 1037.83, passed 5-5-83)
§ 34.02 BIDS AND CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Bids required. The city shall purchase or contract for supplies,
labor, material, or equipment only in accordance with the provisions of the
Uniform Municipal Contract Law, M.S. § 471.45, as it may be amended from time
to time. Any required notice of call for bids shall be published in the
official newspaper of the city. The notice shall be published at least seven
days prior to the date set for opening of bids.
('75 Code, § 4.201) (Ord. 1061.88, passed 1-9-88)
   (B)   Content of notice. The notice calling for bids shall designate the
date, time, and place that bids will be opened and read aloud and the date,
time, and place that the Council will consider the bids.
('75 Code, § 4.202)
   (C)   Requirements of bidders. All bids for supplies, labor, materials, or
equipment shall be accompanied by cash, a certified check, a cashier's check,
or a bidder's bond in the amount of not less than 10% of the total bid price.
('75 Code, § 4.203)
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL
Section
   
35.01   Adoption of personnel policies by reference
Cross-reference:
   
Officers and employees, see Charter § 2.09
§ 35.01 ADOPTION OF PERSONNEL POLICIES BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel polices of the city as may be revised from time to time are
hereby adopted by reference and shall be treated as if set forth in full
herein.
CHAPTER 36: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
36.01   Declaration of necessity and purpose
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Powers and duties of Mayor
   
36.04   Emergency funds
   
36.05   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
36.06   Powers and duties of Director
   
36.07   Local emergencies
   
36.08   Emergency regulations
   
36.09   Cooperation of city official, agencies
   
36.10   Emergency management a government function
   
36.11   Participation in labor disputes or politics
   
36.12   Location of governing body meetings and departments
   
36.13   Authority to enter property
   
36.14   Scope and application
 
   
36.99   Penalty
§ 36.01 DECLARATION OF NECESSITY AND POLICY.
   (A)   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters and
emergencies of unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood,
tornado, blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage,
hostile action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and
in order to insure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters and emergencies, and generally, to provide for the common
defense and to protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve
the lives and property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and
declared to be necessary:
      (1)   To establish a local office of emergency preparedness and
management.
      (2)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible
for city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time
of disasters.
      (3)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies
and disasters.
      (4)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and
other political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to
the carrying out of emergency-preparedness and management functions.
      (5)   To provide for the promotion and protection of the public health,
safety and welfare in the event of declared emergencies.
      (6)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
   (B)   It is further declared to be the purpose of this chapter and the
policy of the city that all emergency preparedness and management functions of
the city be coordinated to the maximum extent practicable with the comparable
functions of the federal government, of the State of Minnesota, and of other
states and localities, and of private agencies of every type, to the end that
the most effective preparations and use may be made of the nation's resources
and facilities for dealing with any disaster that may occur.
(Am. Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY. This shall include, but not be limited to, any condition of
unrest, riot, civil disobedience, affray, unlawful assembly, hostile military
or paramilitary action, war, terrorism, or sabotage.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss, whether natural or manmade, shall include, but
not be limited to, flood; fire; cyclone; tornado; earthquake; severe high or
low temperatures; water, land or air contamination; blizzard; landslide;
mudslide; hurricane; building or structural collapse; high water table; water
pollution; air pollution; epidemic; pandemic disease; riot; blight; drought;
civil emergency; utility emergency; severe energy shortages; snow; ice;
windstorm; hazardous or toxic substance spills or releases; chemical spills or
releases; petroleum spills or releases; biological material spills or releases;
radiation releases or exposure; structural failure; public health emergency;
infestation; explosions; or accidents.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying
out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces
are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from enemy attack sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial
hazardous material mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire-
fighting services, police services, emergency medical services, engineering,
warning services, communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation,
congregate care, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare
services, emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of
plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. Emergency
management includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources
engaged in city-level emergency management functions in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter or any rule or order thereunder. Any personnel
employed by the city and assigned by city department heads for service and
specific activities in preparation for emergency preparedness and any other
volunteer or paid member of the office of emergency and preparedness and
management engaged in carrying on emergency preparedness and management
functions in accordance with the provision of this chapter or any rule or order
thereunder. This includes personnel from city departments, authorized
volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
(Am. Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07)
§ 36.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city is authorized, if the Mayor finds the city or
any part of thereof is suffering or is in imminent danger of suffering a
natural or manmade disaster, civil or utility emergency, to declare a local
disaster or emergency and take the following procedural actions including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   Suspend, limit, cancel, convene, reschedule, postpone, continue, or
relocate all meetings of the City Council, and any city committee, commission,
board, authority, or other city body as deemed appropriate by the Mayor.
      (2)   Suspend or limit the sale, distribution, dispensing, or
transportation of alcoholic beverages, firearms, explosives, and combustible
products and require the closing of those businesses or parts of businesses
insofar as the sale, distribution, dispensing, or transportation of these items
are concerned.
      (3)   Establish a curfew during such hours of the days or nights and
affecting such categories of persons as may be designated.
      (4)   Require the closing of business establishments.
      (5)   Prohibit the sale or distribution within the city of any products
which could be employed in a manner which would constitute a danger to public
safety.
      (6)   Close any and all streets, alleys, sidewalks, bike paths, public
parks or public ways.
      (7)   Temporarily suspend or modify, for not more than 60 days, any
regulation or ordinance of the city, including, but not limited to, those
regarding health, safety, and zoning. This period may be extended upon approval
of the City Council.
      (8)   Require the continuation, termination, disconnection, limitation,
or suspension of natural gas, electrical power, water, sewer, or other public
utilities or services.
      (9)   Control, restrict, allocate, or regulate the use, sale, production,
or distribution of food, water, fuel, clothing, and/or other commodities,
materials, goods, services, and resources.
      (10)   Suspend or limit burning of any items or property within the city
limits and up to two miles outside the corporate limits.
      (11)   Require emergency services of any city officer or employee. If
regular city forces are determined to be inadequate, then to acquire the
services of such other personnel as the mayor can obtain that are available,
including citizen volunteers. All duly authorized persons rendering emergency
services shall be entitled to the privileges and immunities as are provided by
state law to other registered and identified disaster emergency workers.
      (12)   Utilize all available resources of the city as reasonably
necessary to manage the disaster or emergency.
      (13)   Evacuate all or part of the population from any stricken or
threatened areas within the city if the mayor deems this action is necessary
for the preservation of life, property, or other disaster or emergency
mitigation, response or recovery and to prescribe routes, modes, of
transportation and destination in connection with an evacuation.
      (14)   Purchase or lease materials, supplies, or equipment during the
local disaster or emergency, and to authorize any or all agencies or city
officials to directly purchase or lease those materials, supplies, or equipment
essential to continue the work of the city involved without the advertisement
of bids. Purchases or leases exceeding the amount of $30,000 shall require
prior approval by the City Manager and City Director of Finance.
      (15)   Hire and/or contract for construction, engineering, architectural,
building, electrical, plumbing, and/or other professional or construction
services essential to the continuation of the activities of the city without
the advertisement for bids or compliance with procurement requirements. Such
contracts shall not exceed $30,000 without prior approval having been given by
the City Manager and City Director of Finance.
      (16)   Make application for local, state or federal assistance.
      (17)   Establish and control routes of transportation, ingress or egress.
      (18)   Control ingress and egress from any designated disaster or
emergency area or homes, buildings, structures, or areas located therein.
      (19)   Subject to any requirements established by law for compensation,
utilize private property as necessary to cope with emergency or disaster
conditions.
      (20)   Appropriate and expend funds, exclude contracts, authorize the
obtaining and acquisition of property, equipment, services, supplies, and
materials without strict compliance with procurement regulations or procedures.
      (21)   Transfer the direction, personnel, or functions of city
departments and agencies for the purpose of performing or facilitating
emergency or disaster services.
      (22)   Accept services, gifts, grants, loans, equipment, supplies, and/or
materials whether from private, nonprofit, or governmental sources.
      (23)   Order the isolation, quarantine, or segregation of persons or
animals when reasonably necessary to prevent the introduction or transmission
of infectious or contagious agents or toxins. Any such isolation or quarantine
must be by the least restrictive means necessary to prevent the exposure,
transmission, or spreading of a communicable, or potentially communicable,
disease, agent or toxin to others and may include, but is not limited to,
confinement to private homes or other private or public premises.
      (24)   Terminate or suspend any process, operation, machine, device, or
event that is or may negatively impact the health, safety, and welfare of
persons or property within the city.
      (25)   Delegate authority to such city officials as the mayor determines
reasonably necessary, convenient, or expedient.
      (26)   Close or cancel the use of any municipally owned or operated
building or other pubic facility.
      (27)   Exercise such powers and functions in light of the exigencies of
emergency or disaster including the waiving of compliance with any time-
consuming procedures and formalities, including notices, as may be prescribed
by law.
      (28)   Remove, demolish, abate, clean up, mitigate, decontaminate, or
disinfect any structure, debris, wreckage, site, or location or to otherwise
mitigate the effects of any emergency or disaster.
      (29)   To issue any and all such orders or undertake such other functions
and activities as the mayor reasonably believes is required or appropriate to
protect the health, safety and welfare of persons or property within the city.
   (B)   The declaration shall be promptly filed with the city auditor and the
public shall be notified through general publicity of said declaration.
   (C)   The declaration of a local disaster or emergency shall be in effect
for a period of up to 30 days. This period may be extended only upon approval
of the City Council.
   (D)   If the Mayor is unavailable, the president of the City Council shall
have said authority, followed by the vice president of the City Council, and
then followed by the most senior ranked member of the City Council.
(Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07)
§ 36.04 EMERGENCY FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Council may levy a tax annually for snow removal, natural
disaster, or other emergency conditions not exceeding the limitation contained
in M.S. § 12.26.
   (B)   All funds collected by and through the foregoing levy shall be paid
into the city finance director and shall be made available only to defray costs
of snow removal, natural disaster, or other emergency conditions.
   (C)   The balance of any unexpended emergency funds raised may be allowed to
accumulate without limitation.
(Am. Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07)
§ 36.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the Mayor for an indefinite term and may be removed by him or her
at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary and shall be paid his or
her necessary expenses. The Director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration and operation of the emergency preparedness
organization, subject to the direction and control of the Mayor.
§ 36.06 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Mutual aid agreements. The Director, with the consent of the Mayor,
shall represent the city on any regional or state organization for emergency
preparedness and management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual aid
agreements with other political subdivisions within or outside the state for
reciprocal emergency preparedness and management aid and assistance in an
emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and shall present these
agreements to the Council for its action. These arrangements shall be
consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   Survey of resources. The Director shall make studies and surveys of
the human resources, industries, resources, and facilities of the city as
deemed necessary to determine their adequacy for emergency preparedness and
management and to plan for their most efficient use in time of an emergency or
disaster. The Director shall establish the economic stabilization systems and
measures, service staffs, boards, and sub-boards required, in accordance with
state and federal plans and directions subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   Emergency management plan. The Director shall prepare a comprehensive
emergency management plan for the defense of the city, and for relief from any
emergency and shall present the plan to the Council for its approval. When the
Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty of all city agencies and
all emergency preparedness and management forces of the city to perform the
duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may be modified
in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the emergency
preparedness and management activities of the city to the end that they shall
be consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   Use of city personnel and equipment. The Director shall utilize the
personnel, services, equipment, supplies, and facilities of existing
departments and agencies of the city to the maximum extent practicable. The
officers and personnel of all city departments and agencies shall, to the
maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and extend services and facilities
to the city's emergency management organization and to the Governor upon
request. The head of each department or agency in cooperation with the Director
shall be responsible for the planning and programming of those emergency
activities as will involve the utilization of the facilities of the department
or agency.
   (E)   Volunteers generally. The Director shall, in cooperation with those
city departments and agencies affected may organize, recruit and train police
reserve, fire reserves, emergency medical personnel and any other personnel
that may be required on a volunteer basis to carry out the emergency management
plans of the city, county, and state. To the extent that emergency personnel
are recruited to augment a regular city department or agency, they shall be
assigned to such department or agency for purposes of administration and
command. The Director may dismiss volunteers at any time and require the
volunteer to surrender any equipment and identification furnished by the city.
   (F)   Volunteers not under city personnel procedures. Personnel procedures
of the city applicable to regular employees shall not apply to volunteers.
   (G)   Emergency facilities. Consistent with the emergency management plan,
the fire chief shall provide and equip emergency hospitals, casualty stations,
ambulances, canteens, evacuation centers and other facilities or conveyances of
the care of injured or homeless persons.
   (H)   Training and information programs. In accordance with the state,
county, and city emergency plans, the Director shall institute such training
programs and public information programs shall take all other preparatory steps
as may be necessary to the prompt and effective operation of the city emergency
management plan in time of declared emergency. Consistent with the state
emergency services law, the Director shall coordinate the activity of municipal
emergency management organizations within the city and assist in establishing
and conducting training programs as required to assure emergency operational
capability in the several services as provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (I)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management. The Director shall
direct and coordinate the general operation of all city emergency preparedness
and management resources during an emergency in conformity with controlling
regulations and instructions of state authorities. The heads of departments and
agencies shall be governed by the assistant city coordinator or regulatory
services and emergency preparedness orders in respect thereto.
   (J)   Emergency operation centers. Consistent with the emergency management
plan, the Director shall provide and equip at some suitable place in the city
an emergency operation center and, if required by the state emergency
management plan, an auxiliary emergency operation center to be used during a
declared emergency as headquarters for direction and coordination of emergency
management activities. The Director shall arrange for representation at the
emergency operation center by city departments and agencies authorized by
federal or state authority to carry on emergency management activities. The
Director shall arrange for the installation at the emergency operation center
of necessary facilities for communication between heads of departments and
agencies, the office of emergency preparedness and management, the stations and
operating units of city services and other agencies concerned with emergency
preparedness and management, and for communication with other communities and
emergency operation centers within the surrounding area and with the federal
and state agencies concerned.
   (K)   Report. The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
(Am. Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07)
§ 36.07 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City
Administrator. Whenever in the judgment of the mayor any unprecedented or sever
catastrophe or disaster shall warrant it, an emergency may be declared and the
provisions of this chapter may be invoked. However, within 72 hours after such
declaration of emergency, a regular meeting or special meeting of the City
Council shall be called for the ratification of such emergency declaration, and
if such emergency declaration is not approved at this City Council meeting, or
is disapproved at any subsequent City Council meeting, it shall terminate
forthwith.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
(Am. Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.08 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing and
signed by the Mayor; shall be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to
which it pertains, if so limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City
Clerk. A copy shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during
business hours. Notice of the existence of these regulations and their
availability for inspection at the City Clerk's Office shall be conspicuously
posted at the front of the city hall or other headquarters of the city or at
other places in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the
resolution. Thereupon, the regulations shall take effect immediately or at such
later time as may be specified in the proclamation. By resolution, the Council
may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
(Am. Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.09 COOPERATION OF CITY OFFICIAL, AGENCIES.
   Every officer and agency of the city shall cooperate with federal and state
authorities and with authorized agencies engaged in emergency measures to the
fullest possible extent consistent with the performance of their other duties.
The provisions of this chapter and of all regulations made thereunder shall be
subject to all applicable and controlling provisions of federal and state laws
and of regulations and orders issued thereunder, and shall be deemed to be
suspended and inoperative so far as there is any conflict therewith.
(Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07)
§ 36.10 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions under this chapter and all other activities relating to
emergency preparedness and management are hereby declared to be governmental
functions. The city and, except in cases of willful misconduct, its officers,
agents, employees or representatives engaged in emergency preparedness and
management activities, while complying with or attempting to comply with all
applicable laws, rules, orders or regulations shall not be liable for the death
of or injury to persons, or damage to property, as a result of such activity.
The provisions of this section shall not affect the right of any person officer
or employee of the city to receive benefits to which he or she would otherwise
be entitled under this chapter or under the worker's compensation law, or under
any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of congress.
(Am. Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07)
§ 36.11 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The office of emergency preparedness and management organization shall not
participate in any form of political activity, nor shall it be employed
directly or indirectly for political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a
labor dispute.
(Am. Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07)
§ 36.12 LOCATION OF GOVERNING BODY MEETINGS AND DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever an emergency or disaster makes it imprudent or impossible to
conduct the affairs of the city at its regular locations, the governing body
may meet at any place inside or outside the city limits. Any temporary disaster
meeting location for the governing body shall continue until a new location is
established or until the emergency or disaster is terminated and the governing
body is able to return to its normal location.
   (B)   Whenever an emergency or disaster makes it imprudent or impossible to
conduct the affairs of any department of the city at its regular location, such
department may conduct its business at any place, inside or outside the city
limits, and may remain at the temporary location until the emergency or
disaster is declared ended or until the department is able to return to its
normal location.
   (C)   Any official act or meeting required to be performed at any regular
location of the governing body or of its departments shall be valid when
performed at any temporary location established under this section.
(Am. Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07)
§ 36.13 AUTHORITY TO ENTER PROPERTY.
   During the period of a declared emergency or disaster, a city employee or
authorized agent may enter onto or upon private property if the employee or
authorized agent has reasonable grounds to believe that there is a true
emergency or disaster and an immediate need for assistance for the protection
of life or property, and that entering onto the private land will allow the
employee or authorized agent to take such steps to alleviate or minimize the
emergency or disaster or to prevent or minimize risk or danger to lives or
property from the declared emergency or disaster.
(Am. Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07)
§ 36.14 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this section shall apply to all executive, legislative,
and judicial branches, powers, and functions conferred upon the city and its
officers, employees, and authorized agents.
(Am. Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Am. Ord. 1122.07, passed 4-23-07)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES
Section
Public Service
   
50.01   Request for service
   
50.02   Taking service without authority
   
50.03   Reservation of right to discontinue service
Regulations and Restrictions
   
50.15   Meters and measurements
   
50.16   Separate connection requirement
   
50.17   Notice of installation of water heaters
   
50.18   Notice of installation of central air conditioning unit
   
50.19   Water conservation
Rates and Charges; Billing
   
50.30   Liability for accounts
   
50.31   Deposit
   
50.32   Rates
   
50.33   Rate changes
   
50.34   Additional charges
   
50.35   Billing and payments
   
50.36   Discontinuance of service for nonpayment
   
50.37   Assessment certification of delinquent accounts
 
   
50.99   Penalty
   
Appendix: Utility rates
Cross-reference:
   
Public Utility Fund, see Charter § 7.11
   
Public improvements and special assessments, see Charter Ch. 8
   
Franchises for public utility and other purposes, see Charter Ch. 10
   
Public ownership and operation of utilities, see Charter Ch. 11
   
Electric Service Department, see § 32.35
   
Utilities Board, see § 32.57
PUBLIC SERVICE
§ 50.01 REQUEST FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   All persons, partnerships, or corporations who desire to purchase or
use electric services, water service, sanitary sewer service, or garbage
service supplied by the Public Service Division must make request for such
service to the office of the City Manager and provide billing and contact
information as may be required. (‘75 Code, § 5.301)
   (B)   All customers of the services provided by the city agree that the
receipt of service constitutes a contract between the customer and the city and
that the customer has accepted the terms of said contract and agree to conform
to this section and all of the rules and regulations that are or will be
established as the conditions for the use of said services.
(Ord. 1142.13, passed 5-20-13)
§ 50.02 TAKING SERVICE WITHOUT AUTHORITY.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall take any service described herein
without proper authority therefor.
('75 Code, § 5.310)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.03 RESERVATION OF RIGHT TO DISCONTINUE SERVICE.
   The Utility Board has the right to discontinue any provided service without
notice when the same is necessary in the repair of the system, or any part
thereof. The Utility also reserves the right to discontinue service for
nonpayment as per §
50.36.
('75 Code, § 5.311) (Ord. 1076.92, passed 5-21-92)
REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 50.15 METERS AND MEASUREMENTS.
   All meters used to measure the respective services shall remain the property
of the city and such measurement shall be the sole basis on which bills for use
of these services shall be computed; however, the City Manager may estimate
readings in cases where the meter is stopped or cannot be read. Readings
obtained through the use of wireless electronic reading devices are deemed to
be estimated readings. No person, firm, or corporation, unless authorized by
the City Manager, shall tamper with, disconnect, remove, repair, or otherwise
disturb any electric or water meter. The occupants of any building or premises
where such meters are located shall see that such meters are kept and remain
free from obstructions on or around the same and are conveniently located and
accessible by the city for the purpose of reading, inspecting, and repairing at
all reasonable hours. Every customer shall provide a suitable place where a
meter can be installed, and the municipality shall maintain the same. For the
purpose of reading meters, duly authorized employees of the Public Service
Division of the city shall have authority legally to enter upon any premises at
a reasonable hour.
(‘75 Code, § 5.302) (Ord. 1142.13, passed 5-20-13) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 SEPARATE CONNECTION REQUIREMENT.
   Unless special permission is granted in writing by the Utilities Board, all
premises served by any utility owned by the municipality shall have separate
and distinct service connections and separate meters. All service connections
shall be made and installed according to regulations established therefor.
('75 Code, § 5.303)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.17 NOTICE OF INSTALLATION OF WATER HEATERS.
   Any electrician, plumber, or other person installing an electric water
heater in any residence or other establishment within the limits of the city
shall give notice of such installation to the City Manager within a period of
two days after the completion of such installation; said notice shall provide
the name of the owner of such water heater, the address of that place where
such heater was installed, and the date of its installation. Violation of this
section shall be punished as provided in §
50.99.
('75 Code, § 5.315) (Ord. 1033.83, passed 2-3-83)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.18 NOTICE OF INSTALLATION OF CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING UNIT.
   Any electrician, plumber, or other person installing a central air
conditioning unit in any residence or other establishment within the limits of
the city shall give notice of such installation to the City Manager within a
period of two days after the completion of such installation; said notice shall
provide the name of the owner of such central air conditioning unit, the
address of that place where such central air conditioning unit was installed,
and the date of its installation. Violation of this section shall be punished
as provided in §
50.99.
('75 Code, § 5.316) (Ord. 1040.83, passed 8-4-83)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.19 WATER CONSERVATION.
   Whenever the City Manager shall determine that, as a result of a threatened
shortage of water supply or other good cause, it would be in the public
interest to limit the use of the city water supply, he or she may, by letter,
restrict the hours during which water from the city water system may be used
for lawn and garden sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air conditioning and
other uses specified in the Emergency and Conservation Plan. The said letter
shall identify reduction requirements and be mailed to each city water customer
at the customer's billing address. Notice of any restrictions on water use
shall be deemed complete two days after the mailing. Violation of any demand
reduction requirements on water use as referenced in said letter shall be a
petty misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
that the violation continues. In addition, the violator shall be charged a
civil penalty of $5 for each day that the violation continues which penalty
shall be added to the violator's next city water bill. Continued violation
shall be cause for discontinuance of water service.
(Ord. 1109.02, passed 6-24-02)
Penalty, see § 50.99
RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING
§ 50.30 LIABILITY FOR ACCOUNTS.
   All accounts for water, sewer, or garbage service, whether carried in the
name of the owner or occupant of the property, shall be the responsibility of
the owner of the property. The owner of the property or his or her authorized
agent shall request such service. The owner shall be liable for water, sewer,
and garbage service supplied to his or her property whether he or she is
occupying the property or not and any charges unpaid shall be a lien upon his
or her property.
(‘75 Code, § 5.305) (Ord. 1076.92, passed 5-21-92; Ord. 1142.13, passed 5-20-
13)
§ 50.31 DEPOSIT.
   The City Manager may establish and demand a deposit for utilities if the
customer is continually delinquent in payments or at such other time as it may
be reasonable to assume that the city might have difficulty collecting for
services due.
(‘75 Code, § 5.306) (Ord. 1076.92, passed 5-21-92; Ord. 1142.13, passed 5-20-
13)
§ 50.32 RATES.
   Charges for electric, water, sanitary sewer, stormwater and garbage shall be
computed on the basis of the rates set forth in the Appendix following this
chapter.
(‘75 Code, § 5.314) (Ord. 1142.13, passed 5-20-13)
§ 50.33 RATE CHANGES.
   Rates may be changed by Council resolution after a public hearing called by
the City Council to explain the proposed changes in rates. The notice of the
public hearing shall provide general information concerning the proposed rate
changes. Following the public hearing, the Council shall adopt a resolution
amending or establishing the rate structure. The resolution shall be published
in the official newspaper and shall take effect 10 days after publication.
('75 Code, § 5.312) (Ord. 1076.92, passed 5-21-92)
Cross-reference:
   
Official newspaper, see Charter § 12.01
§ 50.34 ADDITIONAL CHARGES.
   In addition to the above-named charges, the Council may from time to time
add additional charges, by resolution, when done in accordance with §
50.33.
('75 Code, § 5.313) (Ord. 1076.92, passed 5-21-92)
§ 50.35 BILLING AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Statements for utility charges for the preceding period shall be
mailed to each customer on or about the first of each month. Payment for all
services of the Utility shall be due and payable by the 15th of each month
following receipt of services and the amount due to the city shall become
delinquent and a penalty of an amount identified in the current rate structure
shall be assessed against the customer if not paid on or before the 15th of
each month or the next business day thereafter if the 15th falls on a holiday,
a Saturday, or a Sunday. All penalties collected shall be deposited in the
Utility Fund. Each customer will be allowed one late payment per calendar year
without penalty.
   (B)   All provisions of this section shall be effective even if no statement
of amount owing or other notice shall have been mailed or given to the
customer.
   (C)   If after the monthly due date a customer has a delinquent bill that
includes an amount that was due the previous month, a delinquent notice shall
be sent by first class mail and state that if payment is not made within ten
days of the mailing, services will be shut off for nonpayment. The delinquent
notice will contain and clearly show the name, title, address and phone number
of the person in charge of billing.
(‘75 Code, § 5.307) (Ord. 1076.92, passed 5-21-92; Ord. 1142.13, passed 5-20-
13)
§ 50.36 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   The city shall endeavor to collect delinquent accounts promptly. In
any case where satisfactory arrangements for payment have not been made, the
Utility may discontinue service to the delinquent customer by shutting off any
or all services that are delinquent. When services have been discontinued for
nonpayment, service shall not be restored except upon the payment of a fee for
reconnection and either the entire delinquent amount due or with one third of
the amount due plus a payment arrangement fee and agreement to promptly pay all
future current bills and the remaining two thirds delinquent within 45 days of
the date of disconnection. Customers shall be limited to two payment
arrangements per calendar year. Penalty charges will continue to be applied
until all delinquent amounts have been satisfied. Fees for reconnection and
payment arrangement shall be established by rate resolution in accordance with
§
50.33.
   (B)   No service shall be shut off under subsection (A) until notice and an
opportunity for a hearing have first been given the occupant of the premises
involved. The notice shall be in writing and shall state that if payment is not
made before a date stated in the notice but not less than ten days after the
date on which the notice is given, the delinquent service supply to the
premises will be shut off. The notice shall also state that the occupant may,
before such date, demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the supply will
not be cut off until after the hearing is held. If the customer requests a
hearing before the date specified, a hearing shall be held on the matter by the
Utility or its representatives within at least one week of which the request is
made. If as a result of the hearing the utility finds that the amount claimed
to be owing is actually due and unpaid and that there is no legal reason why
the supply of the delinquent customer may not be shut off in accordance with
this section, the city may shut off the supply on the following business day or
date of disconnection in original notice whichever is later. Disconnections
shall not take place on a Friday or on the day immediately before a federally
recognized holiday.
   (C)   No service of a residential customer shall be disconnected if the
disconnection affects the primary heat source for the residential unit when the
disconnection would occur during the period between October 15 and April 15,
the customer has declared inability to pay on forms provided by the Utility,
the household income of the customer is less than 50% of the state median
income level, as documented by the customer to the Utility, and the customer
has entered into a payment schedule and makes reasonably timely payments under
the schedule which considers the financial resources of the household. The
Utility shall, between August 15 and October 15, of each year, notify all
residential customers of these provisions.
(‘75 Code, § 5.308) (Ord. 1076.92, passed 5-21-92; Ord. 1142.13, passed 5-20-
13)
§ 50.37 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   Delinquent water, stormwater, sanitary sewer, and garbage accounts may be
certified to the City Clerk who shall prepare an assessment roll each year
providing for assessment of the delinquent amounts against the respective
properties served. The assessment roll shall be delivered to the Council for
adoption on or before October 15 of each year. Upon such adoption, the Clerk
shall certify the assessment roll to the County Auditor for collection along
with taxes.
(‘75 Code, § 5.309) (Ord. 1142.13, passed 5-20-13)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be penalized as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §
50.02 is hereby declared a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction thereof by a
fine of not to exceed $300 and costs, or in default thereof, by imprisonment
for not to exceed 90 days.
('75 Code, § 5.310)
   (C)   Violation of §
50.17 or §
50.18 shall constitute a petty misdemeanor.
('75 Code, §§ 5.315 - 5.316) (Ord. 1033.83, passed 2-3-83; Ord. 1040.83, passed
8-4-83)
APPENDIX: UTILITY RATES
All utility rates may be adopted from time to time by Council resolution or
ordinance.
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Organized collection system preserved
   
51.03   Definitions
   
51.04   Licensing of garbage collector
   
51.05   Compulsory residential garbage collection
   
51.06   Residential garbage collection
   
51.07   Recycling
   
51.08   Commercial garbage collection
   
51.09   Unauthorized disposal
   
51.10   Billing; payment
Dumpsters and Portable Storage Containers
   
51.20   Definitions
   
51.21   Permit
   
51.22   Rules
   
51.23   Containers in the public right-of-way
   
51.24   Denial of use
   
51.25   Fees and fines
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Zoning; operation standards; waste material, see §
154.026
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   The city deems it to be in the best interest of the citizens, and necessary
to preserve public health, safety, property values and city streets and
alleyways, to license both residential and commercial haulers of all solid
waste who operate within city limits.
(Ord. 1157.22, passed 2-22-22)
§ 51.02 ORGANIZED COLLECTION SYSTEM PRESERVED.
   The city utilizes organized collection defined as a system for collecting
solid waste in which a specified collector, or a member of an organization of
collectors, is authorized to collect from a defined geographic service area or
areas, some or all of the solid waste that is released by generators for
collection. The organized collection system was established prior to May 1,
2013 and is therefore exempt from M.S. § 115A.94 Subd. 4a to 4f.
(Ord. 1157.22, passed 2-22-22)
§ 51.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DUMPSTER. Any portable container used or designed for collection of,
transportation of, or disposal of garbage, refuse, waste, construction/
demolition materials, or the like. DUMPSTER shall include, but is not limited
to, roll off boxes or containers, collection bins, tubs, and portable storage
containers.
   GARBAGE. Every waste accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that
attends the preparation, use, cooking, keeping, storing, buying, selling or
transporting of meats, fish, birds, fruits, vegetables, and wastewater. GARBAGE
shall also include wastepaper, sweepings, trash, rubbish, litter and other
similar solid waste materials. GARBAGE does not include yard waste.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Recyclable materials are defined as materials that are
separated from mixed municipal solid waste for the purpose of recycling or
composting, including paper, glass, plastics, metals and compostable materials.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, recyclable materials, refuse, rubbish, swill, waste
matter and other discards which are nonhazardous waste.
   YARD WASTE. Organic material consisting of grass clippings, branches, leaves
and other forms of organic garden waste.
(Ord. 1157.22, passed 2-22-22)
§ 51.04 LICENSING OF GARBAGE COLLECTOR.
   (A)   The city shall grant one license authorizing hauler to pick up solid
waste within city limits. The city shall grant such license in its own
discretion, after considering whether the services being offered, the prices
for such services, the equipment, personnel, reputation, and experience of the
hauler are the best available for the citizens and in keeping with city needs
and policies. The City Council, in its sole discretion, may select the methods
by which it solicits proposals for service.
   (B)   The approved hauler and city shall enter into a contract designating
the terms, conditions, fees, payments, and other such necessary provisions for
effective and efficient solid waste collection and disposal.
   (C)   The term of the contract shall be no longer than five years in length.
(Ord. 1157.22, passed 2-22-22)
§ 51.05 COMPULSORY RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE COLLECTION.
   Every residential dwelling shall be required to have garbage collection
through the approved hauler.
(Ord. 1157.22, passed 2-22-22)
§ 51.06 RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Residential garbage shall be contained in clear plastic bags and
sorted in accordance with the county solid waste ordinance, which are then
placed in the garbage cart supplied for pickup.
   (B)   Carts are to be stored within or placed outside immediately adjacent
to a primary or accessory structure on the property.
   (C)   Carts may not be left at the curb or other designated pick-up spot
after refuse has been collected. Carts must be removed within 24 hours after
pick-up. Carts may be placed for pick-up no sooner than 48 hours before
scheduled pick-up.
(Ord. 1157.22, passed 2-22-22)
§ 51.07 RECYCLING.
   At the time of passage of this chapter, the county acts as the responsible
party for all recycling collection and administration within the city.
(Ord. 1157.22, passed 2-22-22)
§ 51.08 COMMERCIAL GARBAGE COLLECTION.
   (A)   All owners, occupants, and persons in control or possession of a
structure located in the commercial or industrial districts as defined in the
city zoning code shall remove or cause to be removed by a licensed garbage
collector all garbage and rubbish.
   (B)   Commercial units shall be billed directly by the contractor at a rate
to be agreed upon between the parties involved.
   (C)   All solid waste shall be stored in clean, water-tight, and washable
closed containers.
   (D)   All such containers are to be placed in as inconspicuous of a location
as practicable while maintaining efficient collection. The goal is to keep
containers out of the public eye while balancing against the needs of property
disposal and hauler collection.
(Ord. 1157.22, passed 2-22-22)
§ 51.09 UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any garbage or rubbish upon
any street, avenue, alley, vacant lot, or vacant part of any lot, or upon any
yard or other ground or place appurtenant to any building or structure in the
city, except in the manner provided in §§
51.02 and
51.03. No person shall burn or bury garbage or rubbish in the city. No person
shall have, store, deposit or keep garbage, grains, or other foods where rats
can have access to or feed thereon. Each day’s violation of this section shall
be treated and considered, and the same shall be, a separate and distinct
offense.
(Ord. 1157.22, passed 2-22-22)
§ 51.10 BILLING; PAYMENT.
   All persons whose names are included in the compulsory residential list
shall be charged a monthly fee which includes collection, transportation and
disposal of garbage waste.
   (A)   The fee shall be based on cart size selection and total number of
carts utilized.
   (B)   The rates shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   The garbage fee shall be billed monthly collected by the city as part
of the municipal utility billing system.
   (D)   A property may have the fee cancelled in the event all utilities are
discontinued.
   (E)   The city shall have the right to add any unpaid residential dumpster
fees to the property’s utility billing account in the event of a violation.
   (F)   Overfilled carts that do not allow the lid to completely close will be
subject to an overfill rate charge for that week’s pick-up.
   (G)   Any unpaid fees shall be assessed to the property for which the
service was used in accordance with procedures established for all other unpaid
utility bills.
   (H)   All nontypical garbage and rubbish (such as old equipment, old
furniture, etc.) shall be arranged and billed separately by the hauler.
(Ord. 1157.22, passed 2-22-22)
DUMPSTERS AND PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS
§ 51.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTAINER. Any portable container used or designed for collection,
transportation, disposal or storage of solid waste or personal property.
   DUMPSTER. Any portable container used or designed for collection of,
transportation of, or disposal of solid waste or the like. DUMPSTERS shall
include, but are not limited to, roll-off containers, collection bins, and
tubs.
   PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER. A portable, weather-resistant receptacle
designed and used for the storage or shipment of household goods, wares,
building materials or merchandise.
   ROLL-OFF CONTAINER. A large metal container designed and used for the
temporary storage of refuse, rubbish, trash, garbage, junk, debris, offal, or
any material rejected as useless and fit only to be thrown away. Such container
is typically rented or leased to owners or occupants of property for their
temporary use and which is typically delivered and removed by truck.
   SOLID WASTE. All matter of useless, unwanted or discarded solid or semisolid
domestic, commercial, industrial, institutional, construction and demolition
waste material, including garbage and refuse.
(Ord. 1132.10, passed 2-16-10)
§ 51.21 PERMIT.
   Every person seeking to place one or more containers upon any public right-
of-way or public street must obtain a container permit from the Director of
Public Works.
(Ord. 1132.10, passed 2-16-10)
§ 51.22 RULES.
   (A)   Containers must be well maintained and in good working condition and
be suitably supported at each contact point to prevent damage to paved
surfaces.
   (B)   Containers must be covered when materials inside are easily airborne,
pose a hazard, emit an odor or are otherwise offensive.
   (C)   Debris and property must be placed inside the container and not along
side or on top of it.
   (D)   All dumpsters are required to be emptied when full. For the purpose of
this subchapter, full is defined as when the contents of the dumpster reach an
average level of one foot below the top edge of the dumpster sides. Any
dumpster which has reached the full status, and is not emptied within seven
calendar days shall be considered in violation of this subchapter.
   (E)   Cleaning containers on the street or sidewalk is not permitted.
(Ord. 1132.10, passed 2-16-10)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.23 CONTAINERS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   A container placed in the public right-of-way must have a flasher or
reflector on the outside corner facing traffic at all times. Where traffic may
approach from either side, the container must have a flasher or reflector on
the outside corner on both sides.
   (B)   Containers shall not block a public sidewalk or be placed in a
location that restricts the “sight lines” of an intersection. “Sight lines”
will be determined by the Public Works Director.
   (C)   Dumpsters placed in the public right-of-way for construction,
remodeling or demolition projects shall be removed immediately upon the
completion of the project. No dumpster shall be placed in the public right-of-
way for more than 60 days. An extension of the 60 day rule may be allowed with
written permission from the city.
   (D)   Portable storage containers in the public right-of-way for temporary
storage of personal property shall be placed in the public right-of-way for no
more than 14 days. An extension of the 14-day rule may be allowed with written
permission from the city.
   (E)   No container shall be placed on streets, sides of streets or areas
designated as “No Parking”. Dumpsters shall not be placed in public parking
lots or parks without prior written permission from the city.
   (F)   The owner and/or the user of a container on a public right-of-way is/
are responsible for any public property, street, curb and gutter, or public
infrastructure damage.
   (G)   (1)   No container shall be placed in the public right-of-way during
the winter snow season, defined for the purpose of this subchapter as the
period from November 1 to the next following April 1.
      (2)   The Director of Public Works may issue a special permit to a
property owner for placement of a container in the city right-of-way during the
winter snow season due to the necessity of immediate cleanup of solid waste or
storage of personal property due to fire, flood, or other calamity. The permit
would be issued on a temporary basis not to exceed 30 days, and the permit may
provide additional requirements for visibility. Extensions cannot be granted
for more than the aforesaid time period unless a longer period is granted by
the City Council.
(Ord. 1132.10, passed 2-16-10)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.24 DENIAL OF USE.
   (A)   The City Council may deny the use of containers in the public right-
of-way if the container is too wide to allow public safety vehicles through, or
due to any other traffic concerns.
   (B)   The City Council may also deny the use of containers to protect public
health or safety concerns.
(Ord. 1132.10, passed 2-16-10)
§ 51.25    FEES AND FINES.
   Any permit fees or fines pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter shall
be set by and amended, from time to time, by the City Council through
resolution.
(Ord. 1132.10, passed 2-16-10)
§ 51.99    PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of §§
51.20 through
51.25 is a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The city may remove or have a container removed from the public right-
of-way, if the container is in violation of §§
51.20 through
51.25.
   (C)   The owner of the container, or if the owner cannot be determined, the
person placing it in the public right-of-way shall pay all costs, fees,
penalties or other expenses incurred by the city in removal, storage fees and
disposal of any container and its contents.
   (D)   If the container is not claimed within 30 days by its owner or person
responsible for placing it in the public right-of-way, it may be disposed of as
abandoned property, but disposal shall not diminish the responsibility of the
owner or the person responsible for placing the container in the public right-
of-way to pay all amounts due.
   (E)   The city shall not release a container from storage until all amounts
due under §§
51.20 through
51.25 have been paid.
   (F)   The City of Benson shall not be responsible for any damages to such
container removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
51.20 through
51.25.
(Ord. 1132.10, passed 2-16-10)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Declaration of intent
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Interpretation
Regulations and Restrictions
   
52.15   Use of municipal sewers required
   
52.16   Private sewage disposal
   
52.17   Disposal of septic tank sludge; permits; fees
   
52.18   Protection from damage
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.30   Permits; fees
   
52.31   Liability for costs and damage
   
52.32   Separate building sewer requirement; exceptions
   
52.33   Old building sewer usage
   
52.34   Construction, connection, and material restrictions
   
52.35   Inspection and connection
   
52.36   Excavations
   
52.37   New connections to sewerage system
   
52.38   Licenses; fees
Use of Municipal Sewers
   
52.50   Storm water, unpolluted water, and the like
   
52.51   Conformance to pretreatment standards
   
52.52   Prohibited discharges
   
52.53   Restricted discharge
   
52.54   Options of city regarding harmful discharges
   
52.55   Interceptors
   
52.56   Preliminary treatment and flow-equalizing facilities
   
52.57   Control manholes
   
52.58   Measurements, tests, and analyses
   
52.59   Special contracts
   
52.60   Pretreatment of industrial sewage
Rates and Billing
   
52.70   Declaration of intent
   
52.71   Definitions
   
52.72   Rates
   
52.73   Billing and payments
   
52.74   Rate review and changes
   
52.75   Sewer Fund
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.85   Right of entry
   
52.86   Metering and reporting requirements
   
52.87   Fee revisions
   
52.88   Violations; discontinuance of discharge required
 
   
Appendix: Sewer Service Charges
Cross-reference:
   
Water and Wastewater Department, see § 32.34
   
Building Regulations, see Ch. 150
   
Zoning; operation standards; waste material, see § 154.026
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DECLARATION OF INTENT.
   These rules and regulations are declared to be necessary for the efficient,
economic, and safe operation of the city's wastewater treatment works, and for
the protection of the health, safety, and general welfare of the public.
('75 Code, § 5.001) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the municipal sewer
or other place of disposal.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. For the purposes of establishing federal requirements
for pretreatment, the term COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT means biochemical oxygen
demand, suspended solids, pH, and fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional
pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the publicly owned treatment works
were designed to treat such pollutants, and in fact do remove such pollutants
to a substantial degree. Examples of such additional pollutants may include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand
      (2)   Total organic carbon
      (3)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin except as
prohibited under §
52.50 et seq.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Trade or process waste or nondomestic wastewater
discharged from a unit of service which exceeds 25 gallons per employee per day
or whose wastewater characteristics exceed 250 milligrams per liter B.O.D.,
exceed 300 milligrams per liter suspended solids or whose wastewater
characteristics are significantly different from normal domestic sewage.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. Any permit
or equivalent document or requirements issued by the Environmental Protection
Agency or where appropriate by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to
regulate the discharge of pollutants.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. Treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction into
the treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in
municipal sewers, with no particle greater than ½-inch in any dimension.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The water and waterborne domestic wastes discharged into
the sewerage system from premises on which any structure has been erected.
   SANITARY SEWER. A pipe or conduit designed and operated to carry sanitary
sewage and industrial wastes.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. Includes all lateral, main, and intercepting sewers, lift
stations, pumps, the sewage treatment and disposal plant or system, and
structures and other appurtenances for the collection, transportation,
treatment, and disposition of sanitary sewage. This shall not include plumbing
inside or in connection with buildings services or service sewers from a
building to the street lateral.
   SLUG. A discharge of any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants
(BOC, etc.), released in a discharge of such volume or strength as to cause
inhibition or disruption of the POTW's sewer system or treatment operation
which contributes to a violation of any requirement of its NPDES permit, or to
cause prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by means described in the
POTW's sludge management plan.
   STORM SEWER. A pipe or conduit designed and operated to carry water and/or
surface runoff but not sanitary sewage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. All facilities used by the city in the collection,
transportation, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sanitary
sewage to remove pollutants, including the recycling, reusing, or other
ultimate disposal of the treated wastewaters and residues resulting from the
treatment process.
   WASTEWATER. A watercourse in which a flow of water occurs either
continuously or intermittently.
('75 Code, § 5.002) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
§ 52.03 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted whenever possible as
being in conformity with applicable federal, state, and local regulations, and
with other ordinances that may be adopted from time to time by the City Council
prescribing additional terms and conditions for users of the treatment works.
If any portion of this chapter shall be adjudged invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect the remaining portions.
('75 Code, § 5.061) (Ord. 1045.84, passed 1-19-84)
REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 52.15 USE OF MUNICIPAL SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
municipality, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any
human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
municipality, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter and where such discharge is in compliance with a currently-in-
force NPDES permit issued by the state.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
municipality and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there
is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the
municipality is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper municipal sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within
90 days after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said
municipal sewer is within 300 feet of the property line; provided, however,
that buildings used for human occupancy at the time of passage of this chapter
and located more than 100 feet from the municipal sewer shall not be affected
by this subsection. Parks and recreational facilities owned by the city shall
not be affected by the provisions of this subsection except as otherwise
determined by the City Council.
('75 Code, 5.003) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   
Public nuisances affecting health; privy vaults and pollution of public waters,
see § 93.02
   
Public nuisances affecting peace and safety; waste water on streets and the
like, see § 93.04
§ 52.16 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a municipal sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions
of §
52.15(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Building
Inspector. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the Building Inspector and the applicant shall supplement the requested
information by plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed
pertinent or necessary. A permit and inspection fee as may be adopted from time
to time by Council resolution or ordinance shall be paid to the Building
Inspector at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Building Inspector. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify
the Building Inspector when the work is ready for final inspection, and before
any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24
hours of the receipt of notice by the Building Inspector.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of
Health of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 15,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any municipal sewer or natural outlet unless such
discharge is approved by State Board of Health and/or is in compliance with a
currently-in-force NPDES permit issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency.
   (E)   At such time as a municipal sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection (C), a
direct connection shall be made to the municipal sewer in compliance with this
chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable materials, to the
satisfaction of the Building Inspector at the owner's expense.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
municipality.
   (G)   No statements contained in this section shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County
Health Officer.
('75 Code, § 5.004) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.17 DISPOSAL OF SEPTIC TANK SLUDGE; PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge materials originating from septic tanks,
sewage holding tanks, vaults, storage compartments, or other similar facilities
without prior issuance of an annual special use permit from the city.
Application for such a permit shall be made to the City Manager of forms
provided. A permit fee as may be adopted from time to time by Council
resolution of ordinance shall be paid to the City Manager at the time the
application is filed. Evaluation and approval of special use permits shall be
made by the City Manager including any special conditions that the City Manager
may deem appropriate.
   (B)   Special use permits as described in (A) shall be renewable on an
annual basis, at the discretion of the City Manager, on January 1 of each year.
Failure to renew a special use permit and/or failure to pay the annual renewal
fee shall invalidate the permit as of the renewal date.
   (C)   Discharge of material described in (A) and sanctioned by a valid
special use permit shall be made to the sewerage system only during normal
working hours. A minimum of one hour prior notification shall be given to the
City Manager to enable the presence of city personnel during the discharge
operation.
   (D)   No discharge of waste material described in (A) shall be made to the
sewerage unless such discharge is made at the Benson Wastewater Treatment Plant
or other site within the system previously approved by the City Manager.
   (E)   No discharge of waste material described in (A) shall be made to the
system in a quantity greater than 1,200 gallons at any one time unless
specifically allowed by a valid special use permit or the City Manager.
   (F)   A charge shall be levied to the holder of a valid permit for each
discharge as may be adopted from time to time by Council resolution or
ordinance.
('75 Code, § 5.005) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.18 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the sewerage system.
('75 Code, § 5.008) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.30 PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any municipal sewer or appurtenance
thereof without obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (B)   Any person desiring sewer service from the municipal sewer system for
premises not theretofore connected with the system shall apply to the Building
Inspector for a permit. There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
(1) for residential and commercial service, and (2) for service to
establishments producing industrial wastes. The owner or his or her agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the municipality. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the city. A permit and
inspection fee as may be adopted from time to time by Council resolution of
ordinance shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued for a sewer connection unless there is
capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and
the sewage treatment plant, including B.O.D. and suspended solids capacity.
('75 Code, § 5.006) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.31 LIABILITY FOR COSTS AND DAMAGE.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
('75 Code, § 5.006) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
§ 52.32 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTIONS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer. Under exceptional circumstances
where an industrial or institutional establishment maintains its own internal
sewer system serving a multiplicity of buildings, the city may waive the
provisions of this section.
('75 Code, § 5.006) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.33 OLD BUILDING SEWER USAGE.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found on examination and testing by a licensed plumber to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
('75 Code, § 5.006) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.34 CONSTRUCTION, CONNECTION, AND MATERIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The alignment and materials of construction of a building, and the
method to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and
backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building
and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city.
   (B)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Building Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less
than four inches. The slope of such 4-inch pipe shall not be less than €-inch
per foot. It shall be required that the service stub or “Y” connection and the
building drain shall be uncovered and the differential elevation be determined
before construction is begun. Where practicable, the building connection shall
be laid on a uniform grade between those two points.
   (C)   Whenever possible the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to and within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar
as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe
and fittings.
   (D)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the municipal sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (E)   The connection of the building sewer into the municipal sewer shall be
made at a “Y” branch or other suitable connection, if such branch is available
at a suitable location. If the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less,
and no properly located “Y” branch or other suitable connection is available,
the owner shall at his expense install a “Y” branch or other suitable
connection in the municipal sewer at the location and of the type specified by
the city.
('75 Code, § 5.006) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.35 INSPECTION AND CONNECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Building
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
municipal sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the city
representative.
('75 Code, § 5.006) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.36 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavation for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the municipality.
('75 Code, § 5.006) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.37 NEW CONNECTIONS TO SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   No premises shall be connected to the sewerage system unless properly
designed and constructed. No connections shall be permitted from such sources
as roof leaders, yards, area drains, foundation drains, cooling water
discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-
connections from storm sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters, or drainage.
('75 Code, § 5.057) (Ord. 1045.84, passed 1-19-84)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.38 LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)   No connection shall be made with any sewer or drain except by persons
regularly licensed to perform that description of work, and no permit shall be
granted to any person except such regularly licensed person.
   (B)   Any person desiring a license to make connections with the sewer and
drains in the city shall make application in writing therefor to the City
Council and furnish the Council satisfactory evidence that he or she is, or has
in his or her employ, a person regularly trained and skilled in the business
and qualified to receive a license.
   (C)   No license shall be issued to any person as aforesaid until he or she
shall have paid to the City Manager a license fee as may be adopted from time
to time by Council resolution or ordinance. Every license so issued shall
expire one year after the date thereof, or it may be suspended or revoked at
any time by the City Council, on satisfactory proof of any willful failure or
inexcusable neglect of the licensee to observe the rules and regulations
prescribed by any ordinance or resolution passed by the City Council relating
to streets, sewers, and drains or to obey any reasonable direction given by the
City Council respecting the performance of any services undertaken by such
licensee in connection with said sewers and drains.
('75 Code, § 5.010) (Ord. 1047.84, passed 5-3-84)
Penalty, see § 10.99
USE OF MUNICIPAL SEWERS
§ 52.50 STORM WATER, UNPOLLUTED WATER, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and surface runoff shall be directed to inlets of sewers
specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the
city.
('75 Code, § 5.007) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   
Streets and sidewalks; water discharge, see § 92.02
   
Subdivisions; drainage, see § 153.45
§ 52.51 CONFORMANCE TO PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any waters or wastes
that do not conform to the pretreatment standards established by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency and the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
No sewage, water, or waste, including commercial and industrial waste, shall
contain any substance which is determined to be in violation of any state or
federal pretreatment standards, the NPDES Permit Requirements, or which may
otherwise be determined by the city to be unduly deleterious or harmful to the
sewerage system or operation of the sewerage system. All major contributing
industries discharging incompatible pollutants shall comply with applicable
pretreatment requirements and standards.
('75 Code, § 5.007) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.52 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   In addition to the requirements of §
52.51, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. At no time shall
two successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge
into the system or at any point in the system, be more than 5% nor any single
reading be over 10% of the Lower Explosive Limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, and sulfides;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant, including
but not limited to the following concentrations of materials in the wastes as
received at the influent of the wastewater treatment plant:
Material      Concentration
Copper     .10 mg/l
Zinc          .18 mg/l
Lead          .40 mg/l
Chromium +6   .40 mg/l
Chromium +3   .40 mg/l
Nickel        .47 mg/l
Cyanide (HCN) .13 mg/l
Chloroform    1.00 mg/l
Free Oil      50.00 mg/l
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewerage system;
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facility such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with particles
greater than ½-inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure,
bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood, plastic,
gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
('75 Code, § 5.007) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.53 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, material, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the city that such wastes can harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment
process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. In
forming his or her opinion as the acceptability of these wastes, the City
Manager will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, the materials of
construction of the sewers, the nature of the wastewater treatment process, the
capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, the degree of treatability of
wastes in the wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
   (A)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C) or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C);
   (B)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 50 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F or 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
   (F)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
   (G)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
   (H)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids such as, but not
limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of dissolved
solids such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate;
      (2)   Excessive discoloration such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions;
      (3)   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein;
   (I)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
('75 Code, § 5.007) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.54 OPTIONS OF CITY REGARDING HARMFUL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in this subchapter, and which in the judgement
of the city may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the City Manager and to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
('75 Code, § 5.007) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
§ 52.55 INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the city, and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Where installed, all grease,
oil, and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her
expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
('75 Code, § 5.007) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.56 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT AND FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
('75 Code, § 5.007) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.57 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such
manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner with plans approved by the city. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
('75 Code, § 5.007) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.58 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS, AND ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association and
the Environmental Protection Agency's “Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants” found in the Federal Register issue of October 16, 1973 (40 CFR
136), and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable
samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has
been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer
is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of the
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analysis are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH's are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
('75 Code, § 5.007) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
§ 52.59 SPECIAL CONTRACTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern. Such contracts will be governed by all provisions and rates
set forth in applicable ordinances.
('75 Code, § 5.007) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
§ 52.60 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE.
   Each industrial unit of service or commercial unit of service discharging
industrial waste shall conform to the pretreatment standards established by the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency. No sewage, including commercial and industrial waste, shall
contain any substance which is determined to be in violation of any state or
federal pretreatment standards incorporated above, in violation of the current
sewer use ordinance of the city, or which may otherwise be determined by the
city to be unduly deleterious or harmful to the operation of the sewerage
system or treatment works.
('75 Code, § 5.058) (Ord. 1045.85, passed 1-19-84)
Penalty, see § 10.99
RATES AND BILLING
§ 52.70 DECLARATION OF INTENT.
   These rules, regulations, and rates are declared to be necessary for the
efficient, economic, and safe operation of the city's wastewater treatment
works, and for the protection of the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public. The rates and charges hereby imposed are intended to distribute the
costs of operation and maintenance of the treatment works in the most
proportionate manner possible upon all users of the treatment works and in
compliance with applicable standards and regulations of the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency and the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
('75 Code, § 5.051) (Ord. 1045.84, passed 1-19-84)
§ 52.71 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL CHARGE. The portion of the sewer service charge associated with the
capital cost.
   CAPITAL COSTS. The city's portion of the capital cost of the treatment
works.
   COMMERCIAL UNIT OF SERVICE. For purposes of sewer service charges, any
aggregation of space or area occupied for a distinct purpose such as a retail
store, office, laundry, restaurant, or other like unit, which is equipped with
one or more water fixtures draining into the treatment works, separate and
distinct from other units of service. In office buildings or other premises
containing more than one tenant, only those tenants shall be classified as
users of service who occupy space or area equipped with a distinct opening or
fixture or set of fixtures for the use of water separately from other tenants
and with waste draining into the treatment works.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. A normal domestic sewage discharged by a non-residential
or non-industrial unit of service into the treatment works.
   CONNECTION. A residential, commercial, or industrial establishment served by
a water or sewage meter, public or private, the metered flow of which is
subsequently discharged to the treatment works. Establishments with more than
one meter, the metered flow of which is subsequently discharged to the
treatment works, are hereby determined to have one connection for each such
meter.
   INDUSTRIAL UNIT OF SERVICE. For purposes of sewer service charges, any
aggregation of space or area occupied for a distinct purpose such as
manufacturing which results in the discharge of industrial wastes (as defined
below) into the treatment works.
   MINIMUM CHARGE. The fee imposed by §
52.72 hereof upon all sewer system users of zero or low usage to recover
nonvariable costs associated with the treatment works.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater characterized by wastes created in the
preparation of foods, bathing, laundry facilities, and sanitary facilities,
i.e., resulting from normal living functions.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. The current, reasonable, and necessary
costs of operation and maintenance of the treatment works paid or incurred,
determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
including replacement costs, but excluding payments of principal and interest
on obligations issued to finance the costs of acquisition and construction of
the treatment works.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Those costs incurred in obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service
life of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which
the treatment works were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT OF SERVICE. For purposes of sewer service charges, any
aggregation of space or area occupied as a single residence, and any apartment
or flat which is equipped with one or more fixtures for supplying sewer service
separate and distinct from the other users on the premises. In multiunit
dwellings, only those divisions of the building will be considered as units of
service where the suite or apartment has facilities for cooking.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The fee imposed by §
52.72 hereof upon all units of service of the treatment works, and the sum of
the “user charges” and “capital charges.”
   USER CHARGE. The fee imposed by §
52.72 hereof associated with the proportionate distribution of costs to users
for operation and maintenance, including replacement of the treatment works.
   WASTEWATER. Water carrying both sanitary sewage and industrial wastes.
('75 Code, § 5.052) (Ord. 1045.84, passed 1-19-84; Am. Ord. 1076.92, passed 5-
21-92)
§ 52.72 RATES.
   (A)   A sewer service charge is hereby imposed upon all units of service in
a total amount sufficient to pay the costs of operation and maintenance and
capital cost of the treatment works. The sewer service charge shall be the
greater of either the minimum charge or the sum of capital and user charges.
   (B)   The minimum charge shall be in an amount necessary to recover the
nonvariable costs associated with the treatment works including, but not
limited to, capital costs, costs of administration, sewer billings, salaries,
and the like. The minimum charge as established in the current rate structure
shall be levied against each and every residential, commercial, and industrial
unit of service. Connections which include more than one unit of service shall
be charged the minimum amount per month per unit of service, regardless of the
number of connections. Appendix Schedule A itemizes the initial non-variable
costs.
   (C)   The user sewer service charge for residential, commercial, and
industrial connections shall be based upon the estimated flow and load
characteristics of sewage discharged by each user, as estimated by water meter
readings pursuant to §
52.86, and shall be collected in a total amount sufficient to recover the
annual operation and maintenance costs and the capital costs of the treatment
plant and sanitary sewerage system. The sewer service charge for such
residential and commercial connections shall be as may be adopted from time to
time from Council resolution or ordinance. Appendix Schedules A and B contain
unit rates for B.O.D., SS, and NH 3-N and unit charges for domestic users.
   (D)   Each industrial unit of service shall be subject to appropriate
metering and monitoring. The sewer service charge for each industrial
connection is contained in Appendix Schedule C.
('75 Code, § 5.053) (Ord. 1045.84, passed 1-19-84; Am. Ord. 1076.92, passed 5-
21-92)
§ 52.73 BILLING AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Statements for all sewer service charges shall be rendered monthly for
the services of the sewage system.
   (B)   The amounts duly billed for sewer service shall be payable on or
before the 15th day of the month of billing. Upon failure to pay the sewer
charges duly billed, the City Manager is hereby authorized to add a penalty of
an amount identified in the current rate structure to the unpaid sewer service
charge. If the charges remain unpaid after penalties have been issued, the City
Council may certify to the County Auditor the sums due and owing for sewer
service furnished, including penalties, to said premises, which premises shall
be described in said certificate with directions for collection for the city
with other taxes levied against said premises. Sewer charges shall be an
obligation of the owner, lessee, and occupant of the premises served, and of
all of them. In the alternative, the city may, by its Council, bring an action
in any court of competent jurisdiction against either the owner, the lessee, or
the occupant of the premises served, or all of them, for collection of
delinquent sewer charges together with reasonable attorney fees and penalties.
('75 Code, § 5.054) (Ord. 1045.84, passed 1-19-84; Am. Ord. 1076.92, passed 5-
21-92)
§ 52.74 RATE REVIEW AND CHANGES.
   An annual audit shall be made of the treatment works, including such detail
as is necessary and appropriate to determine the annual fixed costs thereof and
the annual operation, maintenance, and replacement costs. The City Manager
shall be responsible for documenting compliance with the city's annual audit.
As soon as practicable following receipt of the report of audit, the City
Council shall review the sewer service charges for sewage service imposed
hereby and review the same as necessary to insure their continuing compliance
with all applicable state and federal regulations. The sewer service charges
may be adjusted by City Council resolution at any time. The city shall revise
the charges for users or user classes to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintenance of the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among users and user classes as required herein;
   (B)   Generation of sufficient revenue to pay the total Operation,
Maintenance, & Replacement costs as necessary to the proper operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works; and
   (C)   Application of excess revenues collected from a class of users to the
costs of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next
year, and adjustment of the rate accordingly.
('75 Code, § 5.055) (Ord. 1045.84, passed 1-19-84; Am. Ord. 1076.92, passed 5-
21-92)
§ 52.75 SEWER FUND.
   All amounts received from collection of sewer service charges shall be
credited upon receipt to a special fund, separate from all other funds of the
city, and used solely for the payment of the costs of operation, maintenance,
repairs, and replacement of the treatment works. Nothing contained herein shall
prevent the City Council from appropriating money from the General Fund to the
Sewer Fund when and to the extent permitted by law.
('75 Code, § 5.060) (Ord. 1045.84, passed 1-19-84)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.85 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. The city shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection (A) above, the duly authorized employees of the city shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to city employees
and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property
by city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury
or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging
and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure
of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
52.57.
   (C)   Duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which
the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited
to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of
any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and
subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall be done in full accordance with
the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property.
('75 Code, § 5.009) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
§ 52.86 METERING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   The city shall have the right at all times to measure the characteristics
and volume of sewage discharged by any unit of service by installing meters or
conducting tests, or by any other systems or techniques considered appropriate
and necessary under the circumstances. Each residential, commercial, and
industrial unit of service may be required to meter and sample its wastes, and
to conduct tests and provide such additional information as necessary to enable
the city to conform to the requirements of the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency and the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Water meters will
be used as a basis for determining the flow of sanitary sewage from residential
connections based on a winter quarter reading. Flow from all other connections
shall be determined on the basis of actual quarterly water or wastewater meter
readings.
('75 Code, § 5.056) (Ord. 1045.84, passed 1-19-84)
§ 52.87 FEE REVISIONS.
   The City Council shall have authority to revise all permit and inspection
fees as set forth in the provisions of this chapter by resolution of the City
Council.
('75 Code, § 5.012) (Ord. 1043.83, passed 12-15-83)
§ 52.88 VIOLATIONS; DISCONTINUANCE OF DISCHARGE REQUIRED.
   Any unit of service discharging wastes in violation of §
52.60 or otherwise detrimental to the treatment works shall be required to
discontinue the discharge of such substance or substances. If after ten days'
notice in writing delivered to the owner or occupant at the premise receiving
service such user continues to discharge such substance(s) into the sewerage
system, that user shall be subject to immediate exclusion from further use of
the treatment works and to any other legal remedy or sanction permitted by law.
('75 Code, § 5.059) (Ord. 1045.84, passed 1-19-84)
Penalty, see § 10.99
APPENDIX: SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
Sewer service charges may be adopted from time to time by Council resolution or
ordinance.
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRIC
Section
   
53.01   Residential
   
53.02   Commercial service
   
53.03   Large power
   
53.04   Municipal
   
53.05   Interruptible rate
   
53.06   Street lighting
   
53.07   Security lighting
   
53.08   Power adjustment clause (all classes of service)
   
53.09   Municipal Utility's Load Management
   
53.10   Public safety, cultural and recreational rebate
   
53.11   Power production and co-generation
§ 53.01 RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Availability. Available for single phase residential service not
exceeding a 400 amp service furnished through one meter and subject to the
established rules and regulations of the city.
   (B)   Character of service. Single phase, 60 hertz at 120/240 volts.
   (C)   Monthly rate and minimum charges. The monthly rate and minimum charges
shall be amended from time to time by Council resolution or ordinance.
   (D)   Controlled water heating credit. All electric water heaters at the
option of the Utility shall be controlled. Where an individual contract is in
force between the customer and the Utility under the interruptible rate, the
customer will receive its water heating power at the interruptible rate. All
other customers having electric hot water heaters will receive a credit as may
be amended from time to time by Council resolution or ordinance, except that
such credit shall not exceed the energy charges for any individual month.
(Res. 99-22, passed 11-22-99)
§ 53.02 COMMERCIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability.  Available to any customer for general service through
one meter where monthly kilowatt hour use has not exceeded 6000 kilowatt hours
in each of the two successive monthly billing periods in the past 12 months and
subject to the established rules and regulations of the city.
   (B)   Character of service. Single phase or three phase, 60 hertz, available
secondary voltages in the area.
   (C)   Month rate and minimum charge. The monthly rate and minimum charge
shall be as may be adopted from time to time by Council resolution or
ordinance.
(Res. 99-22, passed 11-22-99)
§ 53.03 LARGE POWER.
   (A)   Availability. Available to any customer for general service through
one meter where monthly kilowatt hour usage exceeds 6000 kilowatt hours in each
of two successive monthly billing periods and subject to the rules and
regulations of the city.
   (B)   Character of service.  Three phase, 60 hertz, at available voltages.
   (C)   Monthly rate and minimum charge. The monthly rate and minimum charge
shall be as may be amended from time to time by Council resolution or
ordinance.
   (D)   Billing demand and power factor adjustment. The billing demand for the
month shall be the maximum recorded 15 minute integrated demand in kilowatts
adjusted, at the option of the city, to reflect the average power factor
differing from 90% lagging. The billing demand shall be computed by multiplying
the maximum measured kilowatts of demand by 90 mid dividing the result by the
average actual power factor for the month. No credit is given for leading power
factor. The average power factor at the option of the city may be determined by
any of the instruments and methods standard for this purpose.
(Res. 99-22, passed 11-22-99)
§ 53.04 MUNICIPAL.
   (A)   Availability.  Available to any municipally owned facilities at a
secondary voltage available at the location.
   (B)   Character of service.  Single phase or three phase.
   (C)   Monthly rate. The monthly rate shall be as may be amended from time to
time by Council resolution or ordinance.
(Res. 99-22, passed 11-22-99)
§ 53.05 INTERRUPTIBLE RATE.
   (A)   Availability.  Available to customers taking service concurrently
under another rate schedule. This rate is for interruptible service which is
remotely controlled by the city electric utility.
   (B)   Character of service.  Single phase or three phase, 60 hertz, at
available secondary voltage. Service under this schedule will be available at
all times except when interrupted by the Utility during times of peak system
demand or system emergencies. Individual contracts will be required between the
customer and the city for this service. The individual contracts will spell out
the type of load that is allowed as well as the limited amount of hours that
the city will interrupt. One condition of the individual contracts will be that
the customer will hold the city harmless for any damage to their property
caused by load management interruption of service.
   (C)   Energy charge. The energy charge shall be as may be amended from time
to time by Council resolution or ordinance.
(Res. 99-22, passed 11-22-99)
§ 53.06 STREET LIGHTING.
   (A)   Availability. Available for all municipally owned street lighting.
   (B)   Character of service. Single phase.
   (C)   Monthly rate. The monthly rate shall be as may be amended from time to
time by Council resolution or ordinance.
(Res. 99-22, passed 11-22-99)
§ 53.07 SECURITY LIGHTING.
   (A)   Availability. Available to all customers for security lighting and
limited to light fixtures as identified under monthly charge.
   (B)   Character of service.  Provide all energy and maintenance.
   (C)   Monthly rate. The monthly rate shall be as may be amended from time to
time by Council resolution or ordinance.
(Res. 99-22, passed 11-22-99)
§ 53.08 POWER ADJUSTMENT CLAUSE (ALL CLASSES OF SERVICE).
   (A)   The rate charged each customer shall be increased by 1 mill per
kilowatt hour for each mill or major fraction thereof by which the city's
average cost of power purchased and transported exceeds 26 mills per kilowatt
hour.
   (B)   The average cost of power purchased is defined as the total cost of
power purchased plus the cost of wheeling to the city limits divided by the
amount of power purchased during the same time period. The amount of power
purchased will be adjusted for line loss. The line loss will be determined by
the ratio of the power purchased and generated to the power sold during the
preceding calendar year.
(Res. 99-22, passed 11-22-99)
§ 53.09 MUNICIPAL UTILITY'S LOAD MANAGEMENT.
   The city operates a Load Management System that interrupts certain loads in
order to manage the peak demand. Certain loads are required to be under Load
Management, other loads the city reserves the right to place ihern under Load
Management at their option. The following loads are subject to management:
   (A)   Residential hot water heating.  All residential hot water heating
shall be under Load Management.
   (B)   Residential central air conditioning.  All residential central air
conditioning shall be under Load Management and the city reserves the right to
interrupt the power as a condition of the sale.
   (C)   Residential individual unit air conditioning.  The city reserves the
right to mandate Load Management, on individual air conditioning units.
   (D)   Commercial air conditioning.  The city reserves the right to place any
commercial air conditioning under Load Management as a condition of the sale of
electricity.
   (E)   All electrical power that is subject to individual interruptible
contracts under the interruptible rate shall be placed under Load Management.
(Res. 99-22, passed 11-22-99)
§ 53.10 PUBLIC SAFETY, CULTURAL AND RECREATIONAL REBATE.
   A rebate as may be amended from time to time by Council resolution or
ordinance is available to qualified municipal departments or private non-profit
organizations that provide a public safety, park, recreational or cultural
benefit to the city. In return for this rebate, the Electric Utility is
authorized to publically acknowledge and be recognized for providing the
rebate.
(Res. 99-22, passed 11-22-99)
§ 53.11 POWER PRODUCTION AND CO-GENERATION.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to any generation of electricity
by a customer of the city that interconnects with the city’s electrical
distribution system, whether through wind, solar, or other means of electrical
generation.
   (B)   Policy. Detailed instructions and procedures for power production and
co-generation are contained in the Small Power Production and Co-Generation
Policy of the City of Benson.
(Res. 11-15, passed 9-6-11)
   (C)   Qualifying facility. In order to interconnect and operate in parallel
with the city's distribution system, the source of electrical generation must
be classified as a "qualifying facility" as defined by the Public Utilities
Regulatory Policies Act as amended by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Customer
owned generation that does not satisfy qualifying facility requirements may be
interconnected, but will not be allowed to operate in parallel with the city's
electric system without approval by the city and Missouri River Energy
Services.
   (D)   Application. Owners of qualifying facilities and non-qualifying
sources of electrical generation must apply for interconnection with the city.
Application procedures are detailed in the Small Power Production and Co-
Generation Policy of the City of Benson. Necessary forms for application are
available upon request from the Municipal Utility office.
   (E)   Interconnection procedure. If the owner of a qualifying facility
applies for interconnection and is approved by the city, that owner may
interconnect with and operate in parallel with the city's distribution system.
Owners of qualifying facilities must follow the procedure for interconnection
as detailed in the Small Power Production and Co-Generation Policy of the City
of Benson.
   (F)   Responsibilities of customer.
      (1)   Facilities and/or systems must be constructed in accordance with
Minnesota law and must meet or exceed all applicable codes and ordinances in
effect at the time of installation of the qualifying facility.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified, the customer is responsible for the
costs of interconnection to the city's distribution system.
      (3)   The customer must obtain all environmental and other permits
required by governing authorities prior to the construction of a qualifying
facility or other source of electrical generation. The customer shall also
maintain these applicable permits and compliance with these permits during the
term of the agreement with the city.
      (4)   Other responsibilities of customer may be detailed further in the
Small Power Production and Co-Generation Policy of the City of Benson.
   (G)   Compliance with safety, protection and operation guidelines. The owner
of a qualifying facility or non-qualifying source of electrical generation must
comply with all of the city’s safety, protection, and operation guidelines,
including but not limited to those detailed in the Small Power Production and
Co-Generation Policy of the City of Benson.
   (H)   Disconnection of the unit. The city may disconnect either a qualifying
facility or other source of electrical generation as reasonably necessary,
including for non-compliance to an agreement; system emergency, imminent danger
to the public or city personnel, or routine maintenance, repairs and
modifications to the city system.
(Ord. 1136.11, passed 9-6-11)
CHAPTER 54: AGGREGATION OF DEMAND RESPONSE BY THE CITY OF BENSON ON BEHALF OF
RETAIL CUSTOMERS
Section
   
54.01   Legislative findings
   
54.02   Aggregation of retail customer demand response
   
54.03   Ancillary services provided by demand response resources
§ 54.01 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   (A)   Whereas, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has issued Order No.
719, 125 FERC ¶ 61,071, 73 Fed. Reg. 64,099 (October 28, 2008).
   (B)   Whereas pursuant to Order No. 719, 18 C.F.R. § 35.28(g)(1)(iii)
provides: “Each Commission-approved independent system operator and regional
transmission organization must permit a qualified aggregator of retail
customers to bid demand response on behalf of retail customers directly into
the Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional transmission
organization’s organized markets, unless the laws and regulations of the
relevant electric retail regulatory authority expressly do not permit a retail
customer to participate.”
   (C)   Whereas pursuant to Order No. 719, 18 C.F.R. § 35.28(g)(1)(i)(A)
provides: “Every Commission-approved independent system operator or regional
transmission organization that operates organized markets based on competitive
bidding for energy imbalance, spinning reserves, supplemental reserves,
reactive power and voltage control, or regulation and frequency response
ancillary services (or its functional equivalent in the Commission-approved
independent system operator’s or regional transmission organization’s tariff)
must accept bids from demand response resources in these markets for that
product on a basis comparable to any other resources, if the demand response
resource meets the necessary technical requirements under the tariff, and
submits a bid under the Commission-approved independent system operator’s or
regional transmission organization’s bidding rules at or below the market-
clearing price, unless not permitted by the laws or regulations of the relevant
electric retail regulatory authority.”
   (D)   Whereas, pursuant to City of Benson Charter and Code and Minnesota
Statutes, the City Council is authorized to enact ordinances governing the
provision of electric power to retail customers served by the City of Benson,
hereinafter, “city”.
   (E)   Whereas, the City Council has determined that it would be harmful to
the demand response to be implemented by the city, and the collective interests
of the city, as a load-serving entity with an obligation to serve at retail,
and the city’s retail customers to permit any entity other than the city itself
or its authorized designee to aggregate demand response on behalf of its retail
customers.
   (F)   Whereas the City Council, as the electric retail regulatory authority
for the city, has determined it to be desirable that the aggregation of demand
response on behalf of retail customers served by the city to be bid directly
into the organized electric and ancillary services markets administered by the
regional transmission organization that includes the city (or any successor
independent system operator or regional transmission organization to which the
city is a member) be performed by the city or its authorized designee, the
following amendments to the code of the city are hereby adopted.
(Ord. 1129.09, passed 5-4-09)
§ 54.02 AGGREGATION OF RETAIL CUSTOMER DEMAND RESPONSE.
   (A)   The city or its authorized designee is the sole entity permitted to
bid demand response on behalf of retail customers served by the city directly
into any Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s organized electric markets.
   (B)   Retail customers served by the city wishing to bid their demand
response into a Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s organized electric markets may do so by
participating in the program established by the city or its authorized
designee. Retail customers are not permitted to participate in the demand
response program of any other entity without the express prior authorization of
the city.
(Ord. 1129.09, passed 5-4-09)
§ 54.03 ANCILLARY SERVICES PROVIDED BY DEMAND RESPONSE RESOURCES.
   (A)   The city or its authorized designee is the sole entity permitted to
bid demand response on behalf of retail customers served by the city directly
into any Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s organized markets for energy imbalance, spinning
reserves, supplemental reserves, reactive power and voltage control, or
regulation and frequency response ancillary services (or its functional
equivalent in the Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s tariff).
   (B)   Retail customers served by the city wishing to bid their demand
response into a Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s organized markets for energy imbalance, spinning
reserves, supplemental reserves, reactive power and voltage control, or
regulation and frequency response ancillary services (or its functional
equivalent in the Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s tariff) may do so by participating in the program
established by the city or its authorized designee. Retail customers are not
permitted to participate in the demand response program of any other entity
without the express prior authorization of the city.
(Ord. 1129.09, passed 5-4-09)
CHAPTER 55: STORMWATER UTILITY
Section
   
55.01   Statutory authority
   
55.02   Purpose
   
55.03   Rate structure
   
55.04   Exemptions
   
55.05   Fee adjustment
   
55.06   Billing
   
55.07   Certification of past due fees
   
55.08   Rate appeal
§ 55.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   M.S. § 444.075 authorizes cities to impose just and equitable charges for
the use and availability of storm sewer facilities. By this section, the city
elects to exercise such authority. The stormwater utility shall be part of the
Public Works Department and subject to the administration of the Director of
Public Works.
(Ord. 1139.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 55.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of this chapter to establish a stormwater utility to
collect charges to finance costs associated with the operation and maintenance
of the city's storm sewer system, implementation of stormwater management
programs, and stormwater improvements. Revenues received from charges should be
placed in a separate stormwater utility fund and used for any purpose as
permitted by M.S. § 444.075.
(Ord. 1139.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 55.03 RATE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   The charges imposed as a part of this stormwater utility shall be
derived from a parcel's net acreage and residential equivalency factor (REF).
The REF is defined as the ratio of runoff volume generated by one acre of non-
residential land to the runoff volume generated by one acre of residential
land. The residential equivalency factors for each land use established as part
of this stormwater utility shall be as follows:
 
Land use        REF
Residential     1.0
Non-residential 9.0
 
   (B)   Residential stormwater utility fees shall be charged on a per parcel
basis at the base rate as established by the City Council.
   (C)   Non-residential stormwater utility fees shall be calculated based on
the following formula:
         9.0 X (base rate as established by the City Council) X (parcel(s)
acreage)
   (D)   The base rate shall be determined by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1139.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 55.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following land uses are exempt from the stormwater utility fee:
   (A)   Public rights-of-way;
   (B)   Land outside of the corporate city limits;
   (C)   Railroad property; and
   (D)   Undeveloped property.
(Ord. 1139.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 55.05 FEE ADJUSTMENT.
   Fee adjustment for non-residential parcels can be made by providing to the
city evidence that the actual impervious surface coverage on the lot is
different than that used to determine the initial fee (80% impervious). The
credit allowed shall be as follows:
Actual percent impervious coverage Fee adjustment
Actual percent impervious coverage Fee adjustment
5-10%                              95% less
11-20%                             85% less
21-30%                             75% less
31-40%                             66% less
41-50%                             50% less
51-60%                             33% less
61-70%                             16% less
71-80%                             0% less
 
(Ord. 1139.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 55.06 BILLING.
   These charges shall be included on the utility accounts of affected
properties and are payable in accordance with the provision for filing and
payment of water and sanitary sewer bills.
(Ord. 1139.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 55.07 CERTIFICATION OF PAST DUE FEES.
   Penalties for late payment or nonpayment of billings for charges shall be
the same as those applicable for water and sanitary sewer billings. The city
may certify delinquent and unpaid charges to be certified to the County Auditor
with taxes against the property served for collection as other taxes and
collections.
(Ord. 1139.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 55.08 RATE APPEAL.
   Property owners may appeal their stormwater utility fee by providing data
demonstrating that the actual stormwater runoff volume from their site is
substantially different from that of the assigned land uses. These appeals
shall be made to the city who may make adjustments to individual parcels based
on the information provided. No adjustments to the utility fee shall be made
retroactive.
(Ord. 1139.12, passed 6-25-12)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adoption of Highway Traffic Regulation Act
   
70.02   Unreasonable operation
   
70.03   Driver's license
   
70.04   Turning
   
70.05   Load restrictions; special permits
   
70.06   Riding in pickup trucks
   
70.07   Intersection visibility
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   
Speed limit zones, see Ch. 75, Traffic Schedule I
   
Public nuisances affecting morals and decency; vehicles used for immoral or
illegal purposes, see § 93.03
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATION ACT.
   The regulatory provisions of the Highway Traffic Regulations Act, M.S. Ch.
169, as it may be amended from time to time, one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance
regulating the use of highways, streets, and alleys within the city insofar as
such provisions are applicable thereto, and, except as otherwise provided by
this code, are hereby adopted and made a part of this code as completely as if
set out here in full.
('75 Code, § 7.101)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.02 UNREASONABLE OPERATION.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate, or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, swaying, throwing of sand or gravel, or in
a manner simulating a race. Unreasonable squealing or screeching sounds emitted
by tires or the unreasonable throwing of sand or gravel by the tires is prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section.
('75 Code, § 7.110) (Ord. 1075.92, passed 4-16-92)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.03 DRIVER'S LICENSE.
   No person shall do the following:
   (A)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in his or her
possession any canceled, revoked, suspended, fictitious, or fraudulently
altered driver's license;
   (B)   Lend his or her driver's license to any other person or knowingly
permit the use thereof by another;
   (C)   Display or represent as one's own any driver's license not issued to
him or her;
   (D)   Fail or refuse to surrender to the department, upon its lawful demand,
any driver's license which has been suspended, revoked, or canceled;
   (E)   Use a false or fictitious name in any application for a driver's
license, knowingly make a false statement, knowingly conceal a material fact,
or otherwise commit a fraud in any such application; or alter any driver's
license or counterfeit or make any fictitious license;
   (F)   Take any part of the driver's license examination for another or
permit another to take the examination for him or her;
   (G)   Operate or drive any motor vehicle upon any street, highway, or alley
in the city unless he or she has a valid license as a driver under the
provision of the Minnesota Statutes, except those expressly exempted by the
Minnesota Statutes.
('75 Code, § 7.120)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.04 TURNING.
   No person operating any motor vehicle upon the streets or public highways
within the city shall turn such motor vehicle between the intersection of any
streets, nor between street corners, but shall turn the motor vehicle within
the square at the intersection of the streets or highways.
('75 Code, § 7.134)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.05 LOAD RESTRICTIONS; SPECIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police of the city is hereby authorized to designate
portions of streets and avenues in the city upon which vehicles exceeding the
gross weight of 15,000 pounds shall be prohibited from operating. The Chief of
Police shall erect or cause to be erected signs plainly indicating the
prohibition or restriction at each end of that portion of the street or avenue
affected or he or she may post the entire area during seasonal road
restrictions with signs in prominent locations.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may, in his or her discretion, upon application in
writing and good cause being shown therefor, issue a special permit in writing
authorizing the applicant to move a vehicle of weight exceeding 15,000 pounds
on designated avenues and streets. The application shall specifically describe
the vehicle or vehicles, loads to be moved, particular highways for which a
permit to so use is requested, and the period of time for which such permit is
requested. If such permit is issued, the Chief of Police may at his or her
discretion limit or prescribe conditions for the operation of such vehicle or
vehicles when necessary to prevent undue damage to streets or avenues. Every
such permit shall be carried in the vehicle to which it refers and shall be
open to inspection by any police officer or authorized agent of the Chief of
Police. School buses, garbage trucks, city vehicles, or emergency equipment are
exempt from the terms of this section.
('75 Code, § 7.144) (Ord. 1015.80, passed - -80)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.06 RIDING IN PICKUP TRUCKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride, nor shall the driver of a pickup truck allow any
person to ride in the open box of a moving pickup truck while such pickup truck
is on any public street, alley or parking lot within the city.
   (B)   In addition to any person found riding in the open box of a moving
pickup truck in violation of this section, the owner of the pickup truck shall
also be guilty of the violation of this section unless the owner is not
present, which case, the person operating the pickup truck at the time of the
violation shall also be guilty of the violation of this section.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to persons riding in the open box of a
moving pickup truck when engaged in any activity sponsored by the city or for
which a permit has been issued by the city, or any activity directly related to
the business of farming or when the presence of such person is necessary for
the purpose of stabilizing or controlling a load carried by said pickup.
(Ord. 1105.00, passed 8-28-00)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.07 INTERSECTION VISIBILITY.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to promote and conserve the public health and safety
and pursuant to the police powers of the city and the power to prevent and
abate public nuisances, it is declared to be a public nuisance for any person
owning and/or having the legal control of any land within the corporate limits
of the city to maintain or permit upon any such land any fence, sign,
billboard, mailbox, shrubbery, tree, natural growth, earthen berm, or any other
object, or any combination thereof, which obstructs the view of motorists using
any street or approach to any street intersection or railroad crossing so as to
constitute a traffic hazard or a condition dangerous to the public safety.
   (B)   To ensure that any fence, sign, billboard, mailbox, shrubbery, tree,
natural growth, earthen berm, or any other object, or any combination thereof
does not constitute a driving and pedestrian obstruction and hazard, a “sight
triangle” shall be observed at all street intersections, and all intersections
of streets with railroad tracks. Within the sight triangle, no obstruction of
any kind shall be permitted more than 42 inches above the mean elevation of the
street. However, a 42-inch fence that is a minimum of 50% open is permitted if
approved by the Zoning Administrator, and said fence can be constructed, placed
or maintained in such a manner as to not endanger nor potentially endanger the
public health or safety and meets all the requirements of §
154.017.
   (C)   The sight triangle shall consist of the following; or other dimensions
having a similar effect when intersections are not 90 degrees.
      (1)    Intersecting streets shall have a sight triangle with two sides
being 25 feet along the abutting rights-of-way lines, measured from their point
of intersection, and the third side being a line connecting the ends of the
other two lines.
      (2)   A street intersecting a railroad track shall have a sight triangle
with two sides being 30 feet along the abutting rights-of-way lines, measured
from their point of intersection, and the third side being a line connecting
the other two lines.
      (3)    A street intersecting a driveway with one side being 25 feet along
the right-of-way, one side being ten feet along the abutting driveway pavement,
and the third side being a line connecting the other two lines. Driveways to
single family homes are exempt from this provision.
(Ord. 1123.07, passed 6-25-07)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be penalized as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of the statutes incorporated by §
70.01 shall be guilty of such an offense and shall be subject to such penalty
as is prescribed by such statute. Any penalty prescribed by such statute shall
control over any other penalty which may otherwise by provided in this code.
('75 Code, § 7.102)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
70.02 or §
70.06 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
('75 Code, § 7.111) (Ord. 1032.83, passed 2-3-83; Am. Ord. 1105.00, passed 8-
28-00)
   (D)   Any person whose driver's license or driving privilege has been
canceled, suspended, or revoked who operates any motor vehicle, the operation
of which requires a driver's license, upon the highways in this city while such
license or privilege is canceled, suspended, or revoked is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99.
('75 Code, § 7.121)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking near fire halls
   
71.02   Parking near intersections
   
71.03   Parking near fire hydrants
   
71.04   Angle parking
   
71.05   Parallel parking
   
71.06   Double parking
   
71.07   Time limits
   
71.08   Truck-tractors and semi-trailers
   
71.09   Prohibited parking
   
71.10   Trailer parking
   
71.11   Vehicles for sale
   
71.12   Construction of driveways; designation of no-parking areas
   
71.13   Snow emergencies
   
71.14   Additional residential parking regulations
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   
Limited parking zones for school buses, see Ch. 76, Schedule I
§ 71.01 PARKING NEAR FIRE HALLS.
   No person shall park any automobile or other motor vehicle in front of any
fire hall in the city for a distance of 50 feet from the front center of the
fire hall.
('75 Code, § 7.131)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.02 PARKING NEAR INTERSECTIONS.
   No person shall park any automobile or other motor vehicle within 20 feet of
the corner of any street within the city.
('75 Code, § 7.132)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.03 PARKING NEAR FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall leave or permit or cause to stand or remain any carriage,
car, wagon, sleigh, motor vehicle, or vehicle of any kind under his or her
control in the roadway of any public street or highway in the city within 15
feet of any hydrant in the public street or highway.
('75 Code, § 7.133)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.04 ANGLE PARKING.
   Every vehicle parked or stopped upon any of the streets and avenues
designated for angle parking shall be parked at an angle of 45° to the curb or
boulevard at the right-hand side of such street or avenue and with the right-
hand front wheel of the vehicle touching or within six inches of the curb or
boulevard. On such streets or avenues so designated which are paved, vehicles
shall be parked or stopped within the parking lines painted on the pavement.
The parking regulations specified in this section shall apply as indicated by
road and street signs.
('75 Code, § 7.135)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.05 PARALLEL PARKING.
   Every vehicle parked or stopped upon any street or avenue with a curb,
except streets and avenues described in §
71.04, shall be parked parallel to and with the right-hand wheel or wheels of
such vehicle within 12 inches of the curb. On other streets and avenues, except
streets and avenues described in §
71.04, a vehicle shall be parked to the right of the main traveled portion
thereof and parallel thereto and in such manner that it shall not interfere
with the free flow of traffic.
('75 Code, § 7.136)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.06 DOUBLE PARKING.
   No person shall park or stop any vehicle alongside or on the roadway side of
any parked vehicle on any streets or avenues within the city.
('75 Code, § 7.137)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.07 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked or stopped on any of the streets or avenues
so designated by signs in any one place for a longer consecutive period than 90
minutes between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on any day except Sunday.
This parking time limit shall apply as indicated by road and street signs.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or stopped on any other streets or avenues
in the city in any one place for a longer consecutive period than six hours
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
('75 Code, § 7.138)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.08 TRUCK-TRACTORS AND SEMI-TRAILERS.
   (A)   No combination truck-tractor/semi-trailer vehicle, or separate semi-
trailer in excess of 15,000 pounds licensed gross weight shall be parked or
permitted to remain upon the streets or avenues within a One- and Two-Family
Residential Zone (R-1); a Multi-Family Residential Zone (R-2); a Limited Family
Residential Zone (R-3); or a Mixed Use Zone (M-1) as designated on the Zoning
Map of the city, provided that the stopping of said trucks for the purpose of
loading or unloading for such time as is necessary therefor will not be
considered a violation of this section. (‘75 Code, § 7.139)
   (B)   No truck-tractors shall be parked in any residential area as set forth
in subsection (B) with the motor running for a consecutive period of more than
one hour. (‘75 Code, § 7.145)
   (C)   No semi-trailer which is not attached to a truck-tractor designed to
pull it shall be parked on any public street or in any R-1, R-2, or R-
3 residential district. (‘75 Code, § 7.146)
(Ord. 1015.80, passed - -80; Am. Ord. 1160.24, passed 3-4-24) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   
Limited parking zones for commercial vehicles and school buses, see Ch. 76,
Schedule I
   
Zoning code; zoning districts, see § 154.055 et seq.
§ 71.09 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   No person shall park a vehicle or permit it to stand, whether attended or
unattended, upon any street or avenue within the city in any of the following
places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk or boulevard;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within ten feet of any fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of any intersection unless otherwise provided by city
police officials;
   (G)   Within 20 feet of the nearest rail or a railroad crossing;
   (H)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (I)   At any place the City Council may designate as a no parking area and
so indicate with an official sign or yellow marking.
('75 Code, § 7.140)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.10 TRAILER PARKING.
   No person shall, for camping purposes, leave or park a house trailer on any
street or avenue or the right-of-way thereof.
('75 Code, § 7.141)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.11 VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   No vehicle shall be parked on any street or avenue for the purpose of
displaying it for sale.
('75 Code, § 7.142)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.12 CONSTRUCTION OF DRIVEWAYS; DESIGNATION OF NO-PARKING AREAS.
   No person shall construct a private driveway or entryway through the right-
of-way, sidewalk, or boulevard of any street or avenue or designate a no
parking area along any street or avenue without written permission signed by a
majority of the City Council Members.
('75 Code, § 7.143)
Penalty, see § 71.99
Cross-reference:
   
Streets and sidewalks; excavations, see § 92.20 et seq.
§ 71.13 SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   During any time that snow plowing or snow removal operations are reasonably
required on streets, alleys, or public parking lots, and particularly for a
period of 72 hours commencing immediately after the cessation of any two inches
or more of continuous snowfall and until the snow plowing or removal has been
completed in the area involved, the parking of vehicles on the streets and
avenues shall be as follows:
   (A)   Parking will be prohibited on streets between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 7:00 p.m. and on avenues between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
Parking will be permitted on public parking lots during the hours at which time
it is prohibited on streets and avenues. Following the completion of snow
removal operations on streets and avenues, parking shall resume on those
cleared areas to facilitate snow removal on public parking lots.
('75 Code, § 7.250) (Ord. 1005.77, passed - -77)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.14 ADDITIONAL RESIDENTIAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Vehicle parking in the area between the front of the residential
structure (or any street-facing side of a residential structure on a corner
lot) and the street right-of-way line shall only be on a driveway or designated
parking area constructed of concrete, asphalt, concrete pavers, brick set in
compacted sand or other impervious or semi-impervious material.
   (B)   No parking or storage shall be allowed in the area between the front
of the residential structure and the street right-of-way line on grass,
unimproved areas or areas without a hard surface.
   (C)   No owner or operator shall park a vehicle in a location which blocks a
sidewalk.
   (D)   The total area between the front of the residential structure and the
street right-of-way line which may be improved for parking or driveway purposes
shall not exceed 40% of that area.
(Ord. 1150.19, passed 10-21-19)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates and provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be penalized as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of § 71.15 shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $25. ('75 Code, § 7.250) (Ord. 1005.77, passed - -77)
CHAPTER 72: BICYCLES; TOY VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
72.01   Definition
   
72.02   License required
   
72.03   Applicability of traffic regulations
   
72.04   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
72.05   Manner of riding; passenger limitations
   
72.06   Speed
   
72.07   Riding on right
   
72.08   Emerging from alley, driveway, or building
   
72.09   Clinging to vehicles
   
72.10   Riding in a group
   
72.11   Carrying articles
   
72.12   Parking of bicycles
   
72.13   Riding on sidewalks
   
72.14   Lamps and reflectors required
   
72.15   Brakes
Toy Vehicles
   
72.25   Definitions
   
72.26   Operation on private property and negligent operation
   
72.27   Emerging from alley, driveway, or building
   
72.28   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 72.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Any device propelled by human power upon which a person may ride,
having two tandem wheels either of which is over 14 inches in diameter, or any
device generally recognized as a bicycle though equipped with two front or rear
wheels, or a unicycle.
('75 Code, § 7.207) (Ord. 1030.82, passed 9-2-82)
§ 72.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person who resides within the city shall ride or propel a bicycle on any
street, alley, or sidewalk within the city unless such bicycle has been
licensed through the State Deputy Registrar, and the license sticker is visibly
placed on the bicycle.
('75 Code, § 7.208) (Ord. 1030.82, passed 9-2-82; Am. Ord. 1075.92, passed 4-
16-92)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.03 APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Every person riding or operating a bicycle upon a roadway or sidewalk shall
be subject to the provisions of the traffic code of this city applicable to the
driver of a vehicle except as to those provisions of the code which by their
nature can have no application.
('75 Code, § 7.209)
Cross-reference:
   
Traffic regulations, see Ch. 70
§ 72.04 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to vehicles,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected that no right, left, or “U”-turn
is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of such
sign except where such person dismounts from the bicycle to make such turn, in
which event such person shall obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
('75 Code, § 7.210)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05 MANNER OF RIDING; PASSENGER LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   A person operating a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or astride
the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any other person
upon such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat thereon,
nor shall any person ride upon a bicycle other than as above authorized.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
('75 Code, § 7.211)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.06 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
('75 Code, § 7.212)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.07 RIDING ON RIGHT.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near the
right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
('75 Code, § 7.213)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.08 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
('75 Code, § 7.214)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.09 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle shall attach the same or himself to any
vehicle upon any roadway.
('75 Code, § 7.215)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.10 RIDING IN A GROUP.
   Persons operating bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast.
('75 Code, § 7.216)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.11 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping both hands upon the handlebars.
('75 Code, § 7.217)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any bicycle in the city along buildings
or on sidewalks in such a manner as to interfere with traffic or with persons
getting into or out of motor vehicles, and all bicycles when parked in the
business district of the city shall be parked only in zones or places
designated for that purpose.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term BUSINESS DISTRICT refers to
that area bounded by and including 12th Street on the east, Kansas Avenue on
the south, 15th Street on the west, and Utah Avenue on the north.
('75 Code, § 7.218) (Ord. 1030.82, passed 9-2-82)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.13 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or
roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, and when such
signs are in place no person shall disobey the same.
   (C)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
('75 Code, § 7.219)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.14 LAMPS AND REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   Every bicycle when in use at night shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front exhibiting a headlight visible from a distance of at least 300 feet, and
a reflector on the rear meeting the minimum requirements of the State Uniform
Highway Traffic Act, M.S. Ch. 169.
('75 Code, § 7.220) (Ord. 1030.82, passed 9-2-82)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.15 BRAKES.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheel skid on a dry, level, and clean pavement.
('75 Code, § 7.222)
Penalty, see § 72.99
TOY VEHICLES
§ 72.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATE. To ride on or upon or control the operation of a skateboard, roller
skates, scooter, or rollerblades.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
skateboard, roller skates, scooter, or rollerblades.
   ROLLER SKATES or ROLLERBLADES. A form of skate with small wheels or rollers
instead of a runner.
   SCOOTER. A device for riding upon, usually while standing, consisting of an
oblong piece of wood or of other composition mounted on wheels and equipped
with a handle bar.
   SKATEBOARD. A device for riding upon, usually while standing, consisting of
an oblong piece of wood or of other composition mounted on skate wheels.
('75 Code, § 7.504) (Ord. 1064.88, passed 9-8-88)
§ 72.26 OPERATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY AND NEGLIGENT OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a skateboard, roller skates,
scooter, or rollerblades under the circumstances set forth in the subdivisions
which follow:
   (A)   On private property of another without the express permission to do so
by the owner or occupant of said property;
   (B)   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger or be
likely to endanger the safety of any person or property of any other person.
('75 Code, § 7.505(1)-(2)) (Ord. 1064.88, passed 9-8-88; Am. Ord. 1087.94,
passed 6-2-94)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.27 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING.
   The operator of a skateboard, roller skates, scooter, or rollerblades
emerging from an alley, driveway, or building upon approaching a sidewalk or
the sidewalk area extending across an alleyway shall yield the right-of-way to
all pedestrians approaching the sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering
the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
('75 Code, § 7.505(3)) (Ord. 1064.88, passed 9-8-88; Am. Ord. 1087.94, passed
6-2-94)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.28 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person operating a skateboard, roller skates, scooter, or rollerblades
shall attach the same or the person of the operator to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
('75 Code, § 7.505(4)) (Ord. 1064.88, passed 9-8-88; Am. Ord. 1087.94, passed
6-2-94)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty for any crime which is a
misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted
by reference, shall be identical to the penalty enumerated in M.S. § 609.02,
Subd. 3, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporate who violates any provision of this code,
including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty for any petty offense which is a petty
misdemeanor shall be identical to the penalty enumerated in M.S. § 609.02,
Subd. 4a, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see M.S. §§ 412.231 and 609.034
CHAPTER 73: SNOWMOBILES; ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Operation on public and private property
   
73.03   Crossing of streets
   
73.04   Applicability of traffic regulations
   
73.05   Yielding at intersections
   
73.06   Age-related limitations
   
73.07   Operating prohibitions and restrictions
   
73.08   Equipment
   
73.09   Keys to be removed from ignition
   
73.10   Emergency use of roadways
   
73.11   Chasing and harming animals prohibited
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
73.25   Definitions
   
73.26   Operation of ATVs
   
73.27   ATV crossing of public road right-of-way
   
73.28   Classes of ATVs
   
73.29   Permit required
   
73.30   Operation prohibited
   
73.31   ATV in public place
   
73.32   Liability of owner
 
   
73.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, having the property in or title to
a snowmobile and entitled to the use or possession thereof.
     ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow, ice, or
natural terrain steered by wheels, skis, or runners.
('75 Code, § 7.301) (Am. Ord. -, eff. 10-1-97)
§ 73.02 OPERATION ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Except as herein specifically permitted and authorized, it is unlawful for
any person to operate a snowmobile within the limits of the city:
   (A)   On the portion of any right-of-way of any public highway, street,
road, trail, or alley used for motor vehicle travel, except the most right-hand
lane (except in passing) which is used for vehicular traffic in the same
direction, other than on trunk, county state-aid, or county highways.
Snowmobiles may also be operated upon the ditch bottom or outside of trunk,
county state-aid, and county highways where such highways are so configured
within the corporate limits;
   (B)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel;
   (C)   On boulevards within any public right-of-way;
   (D)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of said property;
   (E)   On any other public place except Ambush Park and the Northerly
recreation area.
('75 Code, § 7.302) (Am. Ord. -, eff. 10-1-97)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.03 CROSSING OF STREETS.
   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway, provided:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90° to the direction
of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
   (B)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way;
   (C)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
   (D)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only at
an intersection of such street or highway with another public street or
highway;
   (E)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
both front and rear lights are on.
('75 Code, § 7.303) (Am. Ord. -, eff. 10-1-97)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.04 APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The city traffic code shall apply to the operation of snowmobiles upon
streets and highways, except for those relating to required equipment, and
except those which by their nature have no application.
('75 Code, § 7.304) (Am. Ord. -, eff. 10-1-97)
Cross-reference:
   
Traffic regulations, see Ch. 70
§ 73.05 YIELDING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   No snowmobile shall enter any intersection without yielding the right-of-way
to any vehicles or pedestrians at the intersection or so close to the
intersection as to constitute an immediate hazard.
('75 Code, § 7.305) (Am. Ord. -, eff. 10-1-97)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.06 AGE-RELATED LIMITATIONS.
   No person under 14 years of age shall operate on streets or the roadway
surface of highways or make a direct crossing of a trunk, county state-aid,
county highway, or city street as the operator of a snowmobile. A person 14
years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may operate a snowmobile
on streets and highways as permitted under this code and make a direct crossing
of such streets and highways only if he or she has in his or her immediate
possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued by the Commissioner of
the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, as provided by M.S. § 84.842. It
is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile to be
operated contrary to the provisions of this section.
('75 Code, § 7.306) (Am. Ord. -, eff. 10-1-97)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.07 OPERATING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the limits of
the city:
   (A)   At any place while under the influence of alcohol or drugs as defined
in M.S. § 169.121, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference;
   (B)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable or proper under all the
surrounding circumstances;
   (C)   At any place in a careless, reckless, or negligent manner or
heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or in a manner so as
to endanger or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or
property;
   (D)   During the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of any day, closer than
100 feet to any dwelling which is usually occupied by one or more persons;
   (E)   So as to tow any person or thing in a public street or highway except
through use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile;
   (F)   Within 100 feet of any pedestrian, skating rink, or sliding area where
the operation would conflict with use or endanger other persons or property.
('75 Code, § 7.307) (Am. Ord. -, eff. 10-1-97)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.08 EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile any place within the
limits of the city unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, straight pipe, or similar device on
a snowmobile motor;
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any condition of operation;
   (C)   A safety or so-called “deadman” throttle in operating condition. A
SAFETY or “DEADMAN” THROTTLE is defined as a device which, when pressured, is
removed from the engine accelerator or throttle, and causes the motor to be
disengaged from the driving track;
   (D)   When operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to one-
half before sunrise or at times of reduced visibility, at least one clear lamp
attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness under
normal atmospheric conditions. Such headlamp shall be so aimed that glaring
rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming snowmobile operator. It
shall also be equipped with at least one red taillamp having a minimum
candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible from
a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions.
('75 Code, § 7.308) (Am. Ord. -, eff. 10-1-97)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.09 KEYS TO BE REMOVED FROM IGNITION.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile on a public place shall lock the ignition,
remove the key, and take the same with him or her.
('75 Code, § 7.309) (Am. Ord. -, eff. 10-1-97)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.10 EMERGENCY USE OF ROADWAYS.
   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this code, a snowmobile may be operated
on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time when, and at
locations where, snow upon the roadway renders travel by automobile
impractical.
('75 Code, § 7.310) (Am. Ord. -, eff. 10-1-97)
§ 73.11 CHASING AND HARMING ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall intentionally drive, chase, run over, or kill any animal
with a snowmobile.
('75 Code, § 7.311) (Am. Ord. -, eff. 10-1-97)
Penalty, see § 73.99
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 73.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES (ATVs). Motorized flotation-tired vehicles with at
least three but no more than six low pressure tires that have an engine
displacement of less than 1,100 cubic centimeters and include class 1 and class
2 ATVs.
   CLASS 1 ATV. A class 1 ATV as defined by Minnesota Statutes.
   CLASS 2 ATV. A class 2 ATV as defined by Minnesota Statutes.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of an ATV.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of an
ATV.
   OWNER. A person, other than a person with a security interest, having a
property interest in or title to an ATV and entitled to the use and possession
of the vehicle.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire right-of-way of a public road, including the
traveled portions, banks, ditches, shoulders, and medians of a street/roadway
that is not privately owned.
   SNOW REMOVAL. The process of shoveling, blowing, or plowing snow from
roadways, sidewalks, driveways, and walkways.
(Ord. 1151.20, passed 1-13-20)
§ 73.26 OPERATION OF ATVs.
   Except as herein specifically permitted, class 1 ATVs may not be operated on
any right-of-way of any street, roadway, trail or alley used for motor vehicle
travel that is under the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 1151.20, passed 1-13-20)
§ 73.27 ATV CROSSING OF PUBLIC ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Direct crossing. An ATV may make a direct crossing of a street or
highway, except an interstate highway or freeway, provided:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The ATV is brought to a complete stop before crossing the shoulder
or main traveled way of the street or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate
hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only
at an intersection of such street or highway with another public street or
highway; and
      (5)   When crossing between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to
one-half hour before sunrise or in condition of reduced visibility, both front
and rear lights must be illuminated.
   (B)   Age restrictions.
      (1)   No person under 18 years of age shall make a direct crossing of a
street or highway as the operator of an ATV.
      (2)   The owner of an ATV shall be responsible if the ATV is operated
contrary to these provisions.
(Ord. 1151.20, passed 1-13-20)
§ 73.28 CLASSES OF ATVs.
   (A)   Operation of class 1 ATVs. Operation of class 1 ATVs is not permitted
in the city except for the following situations:
      (1)   Law enforcement acting in an official capacity.
      (2)   During city approved parades. Operation of class 1 ATVs are only
allowed from two hours prior to the start of the parade and must conclude two
hours after the conclusion. In addition, class 1 ATVs may only be used under
this provision to directly assist with parade functions. General use is still
prohibited.
      (3)   Incidental to snow removal on property owned or occupied by the
operator or owner of the class 1 ATV.
   (B)   Operation of class 2 ATVs. In addition to the other requirements set
forth in this chapter, operation of class 2 ATVs is permitted provided that any
class 2 ATV:
      (1)   Must be primarily designed for off road, rugged terrain and
constitute what is customarily referred to by manufacturers as a class 2 ATV.
      (2)   Must be operated at a rate of speed reasonable or proper under all
surrounding circumstances but in no event at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour or the legal speed limit, whichever is less.
      (3)   Must follow the traffic provision of this code, except for those
provisions relating to required equipment and those which by their nature have
no application.
      (4)   May not enter any intersection without yielding the right-of-way to
any vehicles or pedestrians at the intersection, or so close to the
intersection as to constitute an immediate hazard.
      (5)   Is operated by an operator who is at least 18 years of age and has
a driver's license that would allow operation of a motor vehicle in the State
of Minnesota.
      (6)   A person may operate a class 2 ATV while carrying up to the number
of passengers for which the class 2 ATV was designed.
      (7)   Is equipped with the following:
         (a)   A rearview mirror or left and right side view mirrors, located
so as to reflect to the operator a view of the roadway for a distance of at
least 200 feet to the rear of the vehicle.
         (b)   Standard mufflers as required by Minnesota Rule 61.02.0040,
subpart 4, which are properly attached and in constant operation, and which
reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for
operation. No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, straight pipe or
similar device on an ATV motor.
         (c)    Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold
the ATV under normal operation conditions.
         (d)   A safety or so called "dead man" throttle in operating
condition. A SAFETY or "DEAD MAN" THROTTLE is defined as a device which, when
pressure is removed from the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor
to be disengaged from the driving track.
         (e)   At least two clear headlamps and two red tail lights. Such
headlamps and tail lights are to be lit at all times while operating class 2
ATVs.
         (f)   Reflective material at least 16 inches square on each side,
forward of the steering wheel, so as to reflect light at a 90 degree angle.
         (g)   Seatbelts must be worn if provided on ATV. Seatbelts may not be
removed or altered.
(Ord. 1151.20, passed 1-13-20)
§ 73.29 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a class 2 ATV pursuant to this chapter without
a valid permit from the city. Permit applications shall be available at the
Police Department.
   (B)   The City Council shall set fees for such permits by resolution.
   (C)   The applicant shall provide the following information in addition to
the application form:
      (1)   Proof of registration of the class 2 ATV, if required by state law.
      (2)   Proof of insurance, verifying that the applicant maintains
liability insurance for liabilities arising out of the maintenance or use of
the class 2 ATV according to state law.
      (3)   Driver's license permitting the operation of a motor vehicle in the
State of Minnesota.
   (D)   An operator must have possession of a valid permit while operating a
class 2 ATV in the city.
   (E)   All permits granted pursuant to this section shall be issued for a
period not to exceed one year and may be renewed annually by complying with the
requirements of this section.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as an assumption of
liability by the city for any injuries to persons or property which may result
from the operation of a class 2 ATV by a permit holder, the grant of such
permit, or the failure by the city to revoke said permit.
(Ord. 1151.20, passed 1-13-20)
§ 73.30 OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   Class 2 ATVs must not be operated:
   (A)   On state trunk highways and U.S. highways as provided in state law.
   (B)   To tow any passengers, except that a disabled vehicle being towed by
any means may contain one human passenger if necessary to steer the vehicle.
   (C)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel except to remove
snow from the sidewalk adjacent to the owner or operator's own premises or the
premises of another person with the specific permission of that person.
   (D)   On boulevards with any public right-of-way.
   (E)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of the property.
   (F)   On any other public place, except as may be specifically permitted by
other provisions of this code.
   (G)   Within 100 feet of any skating rink or sliding area.
   (H)   While under the influence of alcohol or drugs as defined in M.S. §
169A.20 as it may be amended from time to time. In addition, open containers of
alcohol are not allowed on the ATV while in operation.
   (I)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all
surrounding circumstances, but in no event at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour or the legal speed limit, whichever is less.
   (J)   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner or heedlessly in
disregard of the rights or safety of others, or in a manner so as to endanger
or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or property.
   (K)   So as to intentionally chase, run over, or kill any animal.
   (L)   On any school, hospital, city park or cemetery grounds. Employees of
the City of Benson or school district may operate on grounds as needed in the
performance of their duties.
(Ord. 1151.20, passed 1-13-20)
§ 73.31 ATV IN PUBLIC PLACE.
   Every person leaving an ATV in a public place shall lock the ignition and
remove the key.
(Ord. 1151.20, passed 1-13-20)
§ 73.32 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of an ATV to permit it to be operated
contrary to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1151.20, passed 1-13-20)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor as further explained in §
10.99 of this code, or the court, in its discretion, may provide for the
impounding of the all-terrain vehicle which has been operated in violation of
this chapter for not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 1151.20, passed 1-13-20)
CHAPTER 74: TRAINS
Section
   
74.01   Obstructing traffic
   
74.02   Speed limit
§ 74.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No railroad engine or train of cars shall be left standing in such a way as
to obstruct any railroad crossing inside of the limits of the city for a period
of time exceeding ten minutes and the conductor in charge of said train or
engine, upon conviction thereof shall, for each offense, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and penalized as provided in §
10.99.
('75 Code, § 7.402)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 74.02 SPEED LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful to run any railroad engine or train through the limits
of the city at a higher rate of speed than 40 miles per hour.
('75 Code, 7.403) (Ord. 1082.93, passed 2-4-93; Am. Ord. 1084.93, passed 10-7-
93)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limit zones
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMIT ZONES.
   (A)   Speed limit zones. No person shall drive a motor vehicle so as violate
the following provisions while traveling within the bounds of the following
areas as the same are now located, established, and laid out within the limits
of the city:
 
Location                  Speed Limit (m.p.h.) Ord. No. Date Passed
Ambush Park               10                   1032.83  2-3-83
Mobile Manor Park         10                   1032.83  2-3-83
Northside Recreation Area 10                   1039.83  7-21-83
 
   (B) Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of petty misdemeanor as further explained in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Limited parking zones for commercial vehicles and school buses
SCHEDULE I. LIMITED PARKING ZONES FOR COMMERCIAL VEHICLES AND SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall park or stop a commercial vehicle of more than one-ton
capacity or a school bus during the hours between 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on
any of the following streets and avenues:
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street          Location                            Ord. No. Date Passed
12th Street     Between Kansas and Utah Avenues     --       --
13th Street     Between Kansas and Idaho Avenues    --       --
14th Street     Between Kansas and Idaho Avenues    --       --
Atlantic Avenue Between 9th and 16th Streets North  --       --
Kansas Avenue   Between 12th and 14th Streets South --       --
Pacific Avenue  Between 12th and 14th Streets South --       --
Utah Avenue     Between 12th and 14th Streets North --       --
 
   (B)   Provided, that this shall not prohibit the parking of such vehicles
for a period of not more than 30 minutes along any such street or avenue for
the purpose of having access to any property abutting thereon when such access
cannot conveniently be secured from an alley or other side street.
('75 Code, § 7.139)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 77: MOTORIZED GOLF CART AND MINI TRUCK USE ON ROADWAYS
Section
   
77.01   Purpose
   
77.02    Definitions
   
77.03    Permit required
   
77.04   Permit application
   
77.05   Fees
   
77.06   Term of permit
   
77.07   Insurance
   
77.08   Operating conditions
   
77.09   Suspension or revocation of permit
   
77.10   Appeal of permit revocation
   
77.11   Exemption
 
   
77.99   Penalty
§ 77.01 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to its authority under M.S. § 169.045, the city authorizes the
operation of motorized golf carts and mini trucks on designated roadways as
permitted under this chapter.
(Ord. 1130.09, passed 9-14-09)
§ 77.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   AUTHORIZED OPERATOR. Only persons with a valid driver’s license may operate
motorized golf carts and mini trucks.
   COMMUNITY EVENTS. Events sponsored, co-sponsored or supported by the city.
COMMUNITY EVENTS may also include celebrations organized by a nonprofit,
community based organization intended to serve the entire community. The City
Manager shall determine if an event qualifies for the exemption.
   DESIGNATED ROADWAYS. The roadways listed on the approved permit on which the
motorized golf cart and mini trucks may operate. DESIGNATED ROADWAYS must be
public streets under city jurisdiction with speed limits of 35 miles per hour
or less.
   MINI TRUCK. A motor vehicle that has four wheels; is propelled by an
electric motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal
combustion engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters
or less; has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds; contains an enclosed
cabin with a seat for the vehicle operator; commonly resembles a pickup truck
or van, including a cargo area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle; and
was not originally manufactured to meet federal vehicle safety standards
required of motor vehicles in the 49 C.F.R. §§ 571.101 to 571.404, and
successor requirements. A MINI TRUCK does not include a neighborhood electric
vehicle or a medium-speed electric vehicle; or a motor vehicle that meets or
exceeds the regulations in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500 and successor requirements. This
definition also specifically excludes vehicles commonly known as all terrain
vehicles or ATVs.
   MOTORIZED GOLF CART. A self-propelled vehicle of the type and style
designated for and commonly used by patrons of golf courses, including three or
four wheeled vehicles specifically designed for handicap mobility equipped with
the proper slow moving vehicle signage and rearview mirrors. This definition
specifically excludes vehicles commonly known as all terrain vehicles or ATVs.
(Ord. 1130.09, passed 9-14-09)
§ 77.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No motorized golf cart or mini truck, as defined herein, may be operated on
designated roadways, or on any public right-of-way or public property without
first obtaining a permit from the city.
(Ord. 1130.09, passed 9-14-09)
Penalty, see § 77.99
§ 77.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Every application for a motorized golf cart or mini truck permit must be
made on a form supplied by the city and must contain the following information:
   (A)   Date;
   (B)   The name, address and phone number of the applicant;
   (C)   A copy of the applicant’s driver’s license;
   (D)   Make, model and serial number of the vehicle;
   (E)   Proof of insurance, including the company name, policy number,
effective dates, and coverage;
   (F)   The roadways on which the motorized golf cart or mini truck will be
operated;
   (G)   The time of operation of the motorized golf cart or mini truck; and
   (H)   Such other information as the city may require.
(Ord. 1130.09, passed 9-14-09)
§ 77.05 FEES.
   The City Council may establish an annual fee for a permit.
(Ord. 1130.09, passed 9-14-09)
§ 77.06 TERM OF PERMIT.
   Permits are effective for one calendar year beginning January 1st and ending
December 31st, and may be annually renewed.
(Ord. 1130.09, passed 9-14-09)
§ 77.07 INSURANCE.
   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance complying with the
provisions of M.S. § 65B.48, with the permit application. Every motorized golf
cart and mini truck operator shall have proof of insurance in possession while
operating the motorized golf cart or mini truck on designated streets and shall
produce such proof of insurance on demand of a police officer as specified in
M.S. § 169.791.
(Ord. 1130.09, passed 9-14-09)
§ 77.08 OPERATING CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Designated roadways. Motorized golf carts and mini trucks may only be
operated on the designated roadways specified on the approved permit.
   (B)   Prohibited operation. The operation of motorized golf carts and mini
trucks are expressly prohibited on all public bike trails, walking trails and
sidewalks.
   (C)   Times of operation. Motorized golf carts may only be operated on the
designated roadways from sunrise to sunset. Mini trucks, with required
equipment as set forth herein, may be operated on the designated roadways after
sunset. Motorized golf carts and mini trucks shall not be operated in inclement
weather or when visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other
conditions, or at any time when there is insufficient light to clearly see
persons and vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (D)   Slow-moving emblem and rear-view mirrors. Motorized golf carts must
display the slow-moving emblem as described in M.S. § 169.522 when operated on
designated roadways. Motorized golf carts must also be equipped with a rear-
view mirror.
   (E)   Crossing intersecting highways. The operator, under permit, of a
motorized golf cart or mini truck, may cross any street or highway at
intersections.
   (F)   Application of traffic laws. Every person operating a motorized golf
cart or mini truck under permit on designated roadways has all the rights and
duties applicable to the driver of any other vehicle under M.S. Ch. 169, except
when those provisions cannot reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts or
mini trucks and except as otherwise specifically provided in M.S. § 169.045,
subd. 7.
   (G)   Required equipment on mini trucks. A mini truck may be operated under
permit on designated roadways if it is equipped with:
      (1)   At least two headlamps;
      (2)   At least two taillamps;
      (3)   Front and rear turn-signal lamps;
      (4)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver’s side of the vehicle and
either (i) an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger’s side of the vehicle or
(ii) an interior mirror;
      (5)   A windshield;
      (6)   A seat belt for the driver and passenger;
      (7)   A tail lamp or other lamp constructed and placed to illuminate the
registration plate with a white light;
      (8)   At least two red reflectors on the rear;
      (9)   At least two stop lamps in the rear;
      (10)   A muffler system that meets the requirements of M.S. § 169.69;
      (11)   A braking system that meets requirements of M.S. § 169.67,
including a parking brake; and
      (12)   A horn or other warning device that meets the requirements of M.S.
§ 169.68.
(Ord. 1130.09, passed 9-14-09)
Penalty, see § 77.99
§ 77.09 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit may be revoked at any time by the city if the permittee has
violated any of the provisions of this chapter or of M.S. Ch. 169, or if there
is evidence the permittee cannot safely operate the motorized golf cart or mini
truck on the designated roadways. The city will conduct a hearing to determine
if the permit should be revoked after providing the permittee with five days
written notice. Any police officer may temporarily suspend a permit prior to
the hearing if, in the police officer’s professional judgment, public safety
would otherwise be endangered.
(Ord. 1130.09, passed 9-14-09)
§ 77.10 APPEAL OF PERMIT REVOCATION.
   A permittee may appeal the decision of the city to revoke or suspend a
permit to the City Council. Such an appeal must be filed in writing within five
business days of the city’s decision. The City Council will conduct a hearing
at the next possible regular City Council meeting to determine if the
revocation or suspension should be sustained.
(Ord. 1130.09, passed 9-14-09)
§ 77.11 EXEMPTION.
   The city may waive the requirements of this chapter for the operation of
motorized golf carts or mini trucks as part of a community event, as defined in
§
77.02 above.
(Ord. 1130.09, passed 9-14-09)
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the terms of this chapter shall lose their permit to
operate a motorized golf cart or mini truck in the city and, upon conviction
thereof, be found guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in accordance
with the penalties established by Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 1130.09, passed 9-14-09)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Purpose and intent
   
90.02   Interpretation
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   Dogs and cats
   
90.05   Non-domestic animals
   
90.06   Farm animals
   
90.07   Impounding
   
90.08   Rabies control; bites, quarantine, reporting
   
90.09   Kennels
   
90.10   Nuisances
   
90.11   Seizure of animals
   
90.12   Diseased animals
   
90.13   Regulation of dangerous dogs
   
90.14   Basic care
   
90.15   Breeding moratorium
   
90.16   Pound
   
90.17   Miscellaneous regulations
   
90.18   Fines and fees
 
   
90.99   Violations and penalties
§ 90.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to protect and promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of the people of the City of Benson and adjacent
communities as well as the health and general welfare of all animals owned,
possessed or harbored within the city. This chapter regulates the number and
type of animals, which may be kept, and the manner in which they shall be kept.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
§ 90.02 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, its provisions shall
be held to be minimum requirements and shall not be construed so as to fully
effect its purpose and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other
authority established by law or ordinance except as specifically provided
herein. In the event that conflicting requirements are imposed by this chapter,
by other ordinances of the city, or Minnesota state law, the more restrictive
provisions shall apply.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
§ 90.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL.  Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
ANIMALS shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals;
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals of a species commonly associated with a
farm or performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined,
such animals shall include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules),
bovine family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks,
geese), swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other
animals associated with a farm, ranch, or stable; and
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include:
         (a)   Any number of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats;
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs;
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet;
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not de-scented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets;
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators;
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this subpart, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish; and
         (g)   Any other animal or species prohibited by state or federal law.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Officers, employees, or individuals contracted with
the city under to supervision of the Benson Chief of Police who is responsible
for animal control operations in the city.
   AT LARGE. The condition of an animal when it is off the premises of the
owner and not under the custody and control of the owner or other person,
either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise restrained or confined.
   CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DISEASED ANIMAL. Any animal which has or is suspected of having rabies,
distemper, panleucopenia, glanders, farcy, tuberculosis or any other disease
dangerous or communicable to humans or animals.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation, organization
or department possessing, harboring, keeping, having any interest in, or having
care, custody, or control of an animal.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
§ 90.04 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, or the parents or the
guardians of any such person under 18 years of age, to run at large. Dogs or
cats on a leash and accompanied by a responsible person or accompanied by and
under the control and direction of a responsible person so as to be effectively
restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in streets or public land
unless the city has posted an area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited”
or similar statement.
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   All dogs over the age of six months kept, harbored, or maintained
by their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with the city.
      (2)   Dog licenses shall be issued by the Police Department or other
designated authority upon payment of the license fee. The owner shall state, at
the time application is made for the license and upon forms provided for such
purpose, his or her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of
each dog owned or kept by him or her.
      (3)   No license shall be granted for a dog which has not been vaccinated
against rabies, as provided in this section. Vaccination shall be performed
only by a doctor qualified to practice veterinary medicine in the state in
which the dog is vaccinated. A veterinarian who vaccinates a dog to be licensed
in the city shall complete a certificate of vaccination. One copy shall be
issued to the dog owner for affixing to the license application.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog subject to this section
to pay to the Police Department, or other designated authority by the Police
Department, the license fee as imposed by the City Council by resolution.
      (5)   Upon payment of the license fee, the Police Department, or other
designated authority, shall issue to the owner a metallic tag for each dog
licensed. The tag shall have stamped on it the year for which it is issued and
a corresponding license number. Every owner shall be required to provide each
dog with a collar to which the license tag must be affixed, and shall see that
the collar and tag are constantly worn. In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed,
a duplicate shall be issued by the Police Department. A reasonable charge may
be required to be paid for each duplicate tag. Dog tags shall not be
transferable from one dog to another and no refunds may be made on any dog
license fee or tag because of one death of a dog or the owner’s leaving the
city before the expiration of the license period.
      (6)   The licensing provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to
dogs whose owners are non-residents temporarily within the city, nor dogs
brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog show.
      (7)   The funds received by the Police Department from all dog licenses
and metallic tags fees shall first be used to defray any costs incidental to
the enforcement of this chapter; including, but not restricted to, the costs of
licenses, metallic tags, and impounding and maintenance of the dogs.
      (8)   Additional identification suggested. Further identification methods
are suggested by the city to be used to further identify each dog:
         (a)   Commercially available tags not less than one inch square or
diameter which identify the owner by name and/or address and/or telephone
number;
         (b)   Permanent brands or tattoos placed on the animal in accordance
with accepted practices and which carry appropriate owner or harborer
registration information; or
         (c)   Such electronic identification methods including implants,
provided a tag or identification device identifies electronic registration.
   (C)   Waiver. The provisions of division (B) of this section shall not apply
to the ownership or use of assistance dogs for people who are blind, deaf, or
physically disabled, or dogs used in the police activities of the city, such as
canine corps or tracking dogs used by or with the permission of the Police
Department.
   (D)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained or transported within
the city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian for rabies with a live modified vaccine.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner’s name and address, the animal’s name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian’s signature. Upon demand made by the Police Department or a police
officer, the owner shall present for examination the required certificate(s) of
vaccination for the animal(s). In cases where certificates are not presented,
the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have seven days in which to present
the certificate(s) to the Police Department or police officer. Failure to do so
shall be deemed a violation of this section.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.05 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep, maintain, or harbor within the city the following
animals:
   Any non-domestic animals. At the time of the adoption of this chapter if a
non-domestic animal does not impose an immediate risk to the health, safety,
and welfare of the animal or community, the owner of the non-domestic animal
shall have 30 days in which to remove the animal from the city after which time
the city may impound the animal as provided for in §
90.07. Any non-domestic animal that poses an immediate risk to the health and
safety of the animal or community may be immediately seized and impounded by
the city as provided in §
90.07. An exception shall be made to this prohibition for animals specifically
trained for and actually providing assistance to the handicapped or disabled,
and for those animals brought into the city as part of an operating zoo,
veterinarian clinic, scientific research laboratory, or a licensed show or
exhibition.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.06 FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   Agricultural district. Farm animals shall only be kept in an
agricultural district of the city; no animal shelter shall be within 300 feet
of an adjoining piece of property. An exception shall be made to this section
for those animals brought into the city as part of an operating zoo,
veterinarian clinic, scientific research laboratory, or a licensed show or
exhibition.
   (B)   Harboring farm animals in non-agricultural district.  It shall be
unlawful to harbor, feed or keep farm animals in any district other than
agricultural or industrial for anything exceeding 30 minutes. Existing uses of
land involving the keeping of horses, cattle or poultry which are otherwise not
permissible under this chapter shall be considered lawful nonconforming uses of
land, provided the uses do not constitute nuisances under this code.
   (C)   Livestock transport. It shall be unlawful for any person to transport
animal unless they are:
      (1)   Confined within a vehicle, cage or other means of conveyance;
      (2)   Farm animal being transported in the agricultural district of the
city; or
      (3)   Restrained by means of bridles, halters, rope or other means of
individual restraint.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.07 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Impoundment of dogs.  The Animal Control Authority may impound any dog
found in the city without a license tag or any dog or other animal found
running at large.
   (B)   Notice. The Animal Control Authority shall, without delay, notify the
owner, personally or through United States mail, if the owner is known to the
Animal Control Authority or can be ascertained with reasonable effort.
   (C)   Reclaiming. All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept for five
regular business days by the city. In case the owner or keeper shall desire to
reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be required, unless
otherwise provided for in this code or established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of release fee;
      (2)   Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the Police Department,
per day or any part of day while animal is in said pound; and
      (3)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee and valid
certificate of vaccination for rabies shots is required.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. If the owner does not reclaim the animal impounded
under this section within five regular business days after impounding, the
animal may be destroyed and disposed of pursuant to M.S. § 35.71, and as
amended. The owner will be responsible for the costs of the confiscation,
boarding, destruction, and disposal of the animal.
   (E)   Impoundment records. Impoundment records shall be maintained for the
minimum of six months and shall provide:
      (1)   The description of the animal by species, breed, sex, approximate
age and other distinguishing traits;
      (2)   The location at which the animal is seized;
      (3)   The date of seizure.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
§ 90.08 RABIES CONTROL; BITES, QUARANTINE, REPORTING.
   (A)   Rabies control.
      (1)   Whenever any person owning, possessing or harboring any animal
within the city has potentially exposed any human being to rabies shall be
promptly reported to the animal control officer and shall thereupon be securely
quarantined at the direction of the animal control officer for a period of not
less than ten days, and shall not be released from quarantine except by written
permission of the city. In the discretion of the animal control officer, the
quarantine may be on the premises of the owner or at the veterinary hospital of
his or her choice. If the animal is quarantined on the premises of the owner,
the city shall have access to the animal at any reasonable time for study and
observation of rabies symptoms. In the case of a stray animal or in the case of
an animal whose ownership is not known, the quarantine shall be at the animal
pound, or at the discretion of the animal control officer. The animal may be
confined in a veterinary hospital designated by him or her.
      (2)   The owners, upon demand made by the animal control officer or his/
her designee empowered by the City Council to enforce this chapter, shall
forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten a human, or which is suspected
as having been exposed to rabies, for the purpose of supervised quarantine. The
expenses of the quarantine shall be borne by the owner and the animal may be
reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies upon payment of fees set
forth in this chapter and upon compliance with licensing provisions set forth
in this chapter.
      (3)   When an animal under quarantine and diagnosed as being rabid or
suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid dies or is killed, the city
shall immediately send the head of the animal and rabies data report to the
State Health Department for pathological examination and shall notify all
persons concerned of the results of the examination.
      (4)   The city shall issue proclamation and take action when rabies is
suspected or exists as is required by Minnesota Statutes.
   (B)   Reports of bite cases. It is the duty of every physician, or other
practitioner, to report to the Police Department the names and addresses of
persons treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with other information
as will be helpful in rabies control.
   (C)   Responsibility of veterinarians. It is the duty of every licensed
veterinarian to report to the animal control officer his or her diagnosis of an
animal observed by him or her as a rabies suspect.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
§ 90.09 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition of kennel. The keeping of three or more dogs in the same
premises, whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose
kept, shall constitute a KENNEL; except that a fresh litter of pups may be kept
for a period of three months before such keeping shall be deemed to be a
KENNEL.
   (B)   Kennel as a nuisance. Because the keeping of three or more dogs on the
same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons in the
area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic depreciation, the
keeping of three or more dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel within the city.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.10 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog who habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least three minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. Such barking must also be audible off of the owner’s or
caretaker’s premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person’s dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage. Any animal covered by this division may be
impounded as provided in this chapter or a complaint may be issued by anyone
aggrieved by an animal under this section, against the owner of the animal for
prosecution under this section.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of such feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property. Any person
violating this section shall be punishable by a fine set by and amended, from
time to time, by the City Council through resolution.
   (D)   Chasing. It shall be unlawful for any owner or harborer to allow any
animal to chase or aggressively approach pedestrians, bicycles, vehicles or
other animals on any street, roadway, bridle path, park or parkway within the
city.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.11 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any police officer or animal control officer may enter upon private
property and seize any animal provided that the following exist:
      (1)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
animal control officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
      (2)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
90.10(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in §
90.14; or the criteria for a running at large animal set out in §
90.04;
      (3)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one
previous complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that
the animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
      (4)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of
the property and those attempts have either failed or have been ignored;
      (5)   The seizure will not involve the forced entry into a private
residence. Use of a pass key obtained from a property manager, landlord,
innkeeper, or other authorized person to have such key shall not be considered
unauthorized entry; and
      (6)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the dog is not possible.
      (7)   All animal control officers may enter upon private property where
it appears that there is reasonable cause to believe that an animal is not
being kept, confined, or restrained as herein required or where it appears that
a violation of this chapter may be present and when accompanied by a warrant to
enter property duly issued by a judge of the district court.
   (B)   Seizure of animal by person other than animal control officer.  Any
person who is not an animal control officer appointed by the city who seizes
and confines an animal found running at large shall notify the Benson Police
Department within two hours of the seizure and confinement for placement by the
animal control officer in the city pound. If known, the person shall provide
the name and address of the owner or custodian of the animal to the animal
control officer.
   (C)   Impoundment. The animal control officer may impound, and destroy and
dispose of if necessary, the animal pursuant to §
90.07 and M.S. § 35.71.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
§ 90.12 DISEASED, INJURED OR DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Diseased animals prohibited. No person shall own, buy, sell, keep or
cause to be kept any diseased animal, unless such animal is under the care or
treatment of a licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   Quarantine. The Commissioner of Health and/or City of Benson may order
any diseased animal to be immediately quarantined. Upon certification by a
licensed veterinarian that such animal is indeed suffering from one of the
diseases enumerated in §
90.03, the Commissioner and/or City of Benson may order that such animal be
destroyed and disposed of and direct the manner thereof.
   (C)   Abandonment, care and destruction of diseased or injured animals.  No
person having the care, custody and control of any diseased, sickly, or injured
animal shall abandon the animal anywhere in the city but instead shall provide
care for the animal unless it is adjudged past recovery in which case the
person shall cause the animal to be destroyed and disposed of in such manner as
the Commissioner of Health or his or her designee shall direct.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals.  Any sickly, injured or diseased animal found or
abandoned upon any street, alley, lot or public place, which is adjudged by the
Commissioner of Health or by any veterinarian summoned by the Commissioner of
Health and/or City of Benson to be past recovery, shall, if unclaimed and
uncared for by the owner thereof, be destroyed and disposed of pursuant to
state law by order of the Commissioner of Health and/or City of Benson.
   (E)   Burial or abandonment of dead animals prohibited.  No person shall
deposit or cause to be deposited upon any lot or in any street, alley, lake,
river or other body of water, sewer or manhole or bury or conceal in any way, a
dead animal or part thereof. The owner or other person having charge of an
animal at the time of its death shall remove or cause to be removed the dead
body of such animal within 12 hours after death to a crematory, sanitary
landfill, rendering factory or any other place designated by the commissioner
of health.
   (F)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person or police officer. The police officer
shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If the animal is found
to be diseased in such a manner so as to be a danger to the health and safety
of the city, the officer shall cause such animal to be painlessly killed and
shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or keeper of the animal killed
under this section shall be liable for the cost of maintaining and disposing of
the animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examinations.
   (G)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
within the meaning of this section, the animal shall be released to the owner
or keeper free of charge.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.13 REGULATION OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Incorporation of statutes. The provisions of M.S. Ch. 347, inclusive,
and as amended, are hereby adopted as the potentially dangerous and dangerous
dog regulations for the city. Where a conflict exists between the provisions of
the city ordinances and the provisions of M.S. Ch. 347, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   (B)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person’s animal,
including dog, to inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or
other animal whether or not the owner is present. This division shall not apply
to an attack by a dog under the control of an on-duty law enforcement officer
or to an attack upon an uninvited intruder who has entered the owner’s home
with criminal intent.
   (C)   Definitions.
      (1)   A DANGEROUS DOG is a dog that has:
         (a)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the
owner’s property; or
         (c)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG is a dog that:
         (a)   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private
property, other than the dog owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of
attack; or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely locked
pen or structure suitable to prevent the dog from escaping and to provide
protection for the dog from the elements. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not include a
porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that would
allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure in which
windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only barriers which
prevent the dog from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow the egress of the
dog in any manner without human assistance. A pen or kennel shall meet the
following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet;
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of eleven gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not
exceed two inches and support posts shall be one and one-quarter inch or larger
steel pipe. The posts must be buried a minimum of 18 inches into the ground or
the kennel must have a concrete floor;
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches; and
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the dog is in the pen or
kennel.
      (4)   PROVOKED. An act that an adult could reasonably expect may cause a
dog to attack or bite.
      (5)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the dog is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation. The animal control officer shall designate any dog as a
dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog upon receiving such evidence of any
of the factors set forth in the definitions of dangerous dog and/or potentially
dangerous dog above.
   (E)   Procedure after declaration. The owner of any dog declared dangerous
or potentially dangerous has the right to a hearing by an impartial officer.
      (1)   Hearing. The owner of any dog declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous may request a hearing. Any hearing shall be held within 14 days of
the request to determine the validity of the dangerous dog or potentially
dangerous dog order. In the event that the dangerous dog or potentially
dangerous dog is upheld by the hearing officer, actual expenses of the hearing
up to a maximum of $1,000 shall be the responsibility of the dog’s owner. The
hearing officer shall issue a decision on the matter within ten days after the
hearing. The decision must be delivered to the dog’s owner by hand delivery or
registered mail as soon as practical and a copy must be provided to the Animal
Control Authority.
      (2)   Security. A person claiming an interest in a seized dog may prevent
disposition of the dog by posting security in an amount sufficient to provide
for the dog’s actual cost of care and keeping. The security must be posted
within seven days of the seizure inclusive of the date of the seizure.
      (3)   Notice of dangerous dog. Notice of an order declaring a dog
dangerous or potentially dangerous will be given by delivering or mailing it to
the owner of the dog, or by posting a copy of it at the place where the dog is
kept, or by delivering it to a person residing on the property, and
telephoning, if possible. The owner shall be notified as to the dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal the order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for review of the order.
         (a)   Content of notice. The notice of dangerous dog declaration must
include:
            1.   A description of the dog deemed to be dangerous; the authority
for and purpose of the dangerous dog declaration and seizure, if applicable;
the time, place, and circumstances under which the dog was declared dangerous;
and if seized, the telephone number and contact person where the dog is kept,
if seized;
            2.   A statement as to whether the dog’s destruction is being
sought by the city pursuant to division (F) of this section and M.S. § 347.56;
            3.   A description of the requirements with which the owner must
comply under division (H) of this section;
            4.   A statement of the criminal penalties for violating
requirements pertaining to dangerous dogs;
            5.   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the dangerous dog declaration and, if applicable, prior potentially
dangerous dog declarations for the dog, and that failure to do so within 14
days of the date of the notice will terminate the owner’s right to a hearing
under this subsection;
            6.   A statement that if an appeal request is made within 14 days
of the notice, the owners must immediately comply with the requirements of
divisions (H)(2) and (12) of this section and until such time as the hearing
officer issues an opinion;
            7.   A statement that if the hearing officer affirms the dangerous
dog declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that decision to
comply with division (H) of this section and all other requirements of M.S. Ch.
347 and as amended;
            8.   A form to request a hearing under this section; and
            9.   A statement that all actual costs of the care, keeping, and
disposition of the seized dog are the responsibility of the person claiming an
interest in the dog, except to the extent that a court or hearing officer finds
that the seizure or impoundment was not substantially justified by law.
         (b)   If no appeal is filed, the orders issued will stand or the
animal control officer may order the dog destroyed.
   (F)   Destruction of dog in certain circumstances.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, a dog may be
destroyed in a proper and humane manner by the Animal Control Authority if the
dog:
         (a)   Inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on public
or private property without provocation;
         (b)   Inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private
property without provocation;
         (c)   Bit multiple human victims on public or private property in the
same attack without provocation; or
         (d)   Bit a human on public or private property without provocation in
an attack where more than one dog participated in the attack.
      (2)   Hearing. The Animal Control Authority may not destroy the dog until
the dog owner has had the opportunity for a hearing before an impartial
decision maker pursuant to the requirements set forth herein.
   (G)   Potentially dangerous dog requirements. Upon designation of dog as a
potentially dangerous dog, the Animal Control Authority shall provide written
notice of the designation.
   (H)   Dangerous dog requirements. If the City Council does not order the
destruction of a dog pursuant to the requirements set forth herein, the City
Council may, as an alternative, order all of the following:
      (1)   Registration. No person may keep a dangerous dog in the city unless
the dog is registered with the Animal Control Authority as provided in this
chapter, which may include also meeting the registration requirements with the
Animal Control Authority of Swift County. The Animal Control Authority shall
issue a certificate of registration to the owner of the dangerous dog upon
meeting all the requirements set forth herein:
      (2)   Secure enclosure. Provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous dog as specified in §
90.13(C)(3);
      (3)   Muzzling. If the dog is outside the proper enclosure, the dog must
be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed six
feet in length) and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of age or
older. The muzzle must be of such design as to prevent the dog from biting any
person or animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its
vision or respiration;
      (4)   Warning symbol. Post the front and the rear of the premises with
clearly visible warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children
that there is a dangerous dog on the property as specified in M.S. § 347.51;
      (5)   Bond/insurance. Obtain a surety bond issued by a surety company
authorized to conduct business in the state of Minnesota in a form acceptable
to the Animal Control Authority in the sum of at least $300,000, payable to any
person injured by the dangerous dog, or obtain a policy of liability insurance
issued by an insurance company authorized to conduct business in the state of
Minnesota in the amount of at least $300,000, insuring the owner for any
personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog;
      (6)   Registration fee. The owner shall pay a dangerous dog registration
fee of $500 in addition to standard dog licensing fees;
      (7)   Tag.  The dog must have an easily identifiable, standardized tag
identifying the dog as dangerous affixed to its collar at all times as
specified in M.S. § 347.51;
      (8)   Microchip. The owner has had a microchip identification implanted
in the dangerous dog, and the name of the microchip manufacturer and
identification number of the microchip must be provided to the Animal Control
Authority. If the microchip is not implanted by the owner, it may be implanted
by the Animal Control Authority with the costs borne by the dog’s owner;
      (9)   Licensed. The dog must be licensed and up to date on rabies
vaccination;
      (10)   Photograph. The owner of the dangerous dog shall make the dog
available to be photographed for identification by the Animal Control Authority
at a time and place specified by the Animal Control Authority.
      (11)   Annual renewal. The owner of the dangerous dog must renew the
registration of the dog annually with Benson and Swift County annually until
the dog is deceased. The owner of a dangerous dog shall pay the registration
fee annually set forth in division (H)(6) of this section; and, in addition, to
any regular dog licensing fees to obtain a renewal certificate of registration
for a dangerous dog under this section. If the dog is removed from the city, it
must be registered as a dangerous dog in its new jurisdiction;
      (12)   Death or transfer from city. The owner of any dangerous dog must
notify the city in writing of the death of the dog; of its transfer to a
residence outside the city or of its transfer within the city within 30 days of
the death or transfer. The notice must also provide the new location where the
dog will reside if moved;
      (13)   Notice to landlord.  The owner of a dangerous dog who rents
property from another where the dog will reside must disclose to the property
owner, prior to entering into the lease agreement and at the time of any lease
renewal that the person owns a dangerous dog that will reside at the property.
      (14)   Transfer of ownership. The owner of a dangerous dog must notify
any new owner, whether by purchase, donation or other transfer, that the city
has identified the dog as a dangerous dog. The transferring or selling owner
must also notify the Animal Control Authority in writing of the sale and
provide the Animal Control Authority with the new owner’s name, address, and
telephone number; and
      (15)   Sterilization. The Animal Control Authority shall require a
dangerous dog to be sterilized at the owner’s expense. If the owner does not
have a dangerous dog sterilized within 30 days of a final determination, the
Animal Control Authority may have the dog sterilized at the owner’s expense.
   (I)   Seizure. Animal Control shall immediately seize any dangerous dog or
potentially dangerous dog if the owner does not meet each of the above
requirements within 14 days after the date notice is sent to the owner that the
dog is dangerous or potentially dangerous, may also request a hearing as set
forth on §
90.13(E) above.
   (J)   Reclaiming. A dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog seized under
this section may be reclaimed by the owner of the dog upon payment of all
applicable fees, including but not limited to, impounding fees, boarding fees,
and release fees and presenting proof to Animal Control Authority that each of
the requirements under §
90.13 is fulfilled. A dog not reclaimed under this division within 14 days may
be disposed of as provided under §
90.13(E) and (F), and the owner is liable to Animal Control Authority for costs
incurred in confining and disposing of the dog.
   (K)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of a dog has subsequently violated
the provisions under §
90.13 with the same dog, the dog must be seized by Animal Control. The owner
may request a hearing as defined in §
90.13(E). If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for which
the dog was seized, the owner may reclaim the dog under the provisions of §
90.07(C). If the dog is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days after the
date the owner is notified that the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be
disposed of as provided under §
90.07(D) and the owner is liable to the Animal Control for the costs incurred
in confining, impounding and disposing of the dog.
   (L)   Restrictions.  
      (1)   No owner may own a dog if a person has been convicted of any of the
violations set forth in M.S. § 347.542 and as amended.
      (2)   If any member of a household is prohibited from owning a dog
pursuant to §
90.12(L)(1), no person in the household is permitted to own a dog.
   (M)   Stopping an attack.  If any police officer or animal control officer
is witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the
officer may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the
attack to an end and prevent further injury to the victim, including but not
limited to, shooting the animal.
   (N)   Notification of new address. The owner of a dog that has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous must notify the animal control
officer in writing if the dog is to be relocated from its current address or
given or sold to another person. The notification must be given in writing at
least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification must include the current owner’s name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
   (O)   Police dogs. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to dogs
used in the police activities of the city, such as canine corps or tracking
dogs used by or with the permission of the Police Department.
   (P)   Designation review. Beginning six months after a dog is declared a
dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, an owner may request annually a
review of the designation. The owner must provide evidence that the dog’s
behavior has changed due to the dog’s age, neutering, environment, completion
of obedience training that includes modification of aggressive behavior, or
other factors. The owner shall submit a request for reconsideration to the City
Administrator who shall then have the Animal Control Authority consider the
request. If the Animal Control Authority finds sufficient evidence that the
dog’s behavior has changed, the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog
designation may be rescinded.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.14 BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Seizure
and impounding of the animal may occur and be held pursuant to the terms of
this chapter. Any owner not treating their pet in such a humane manner will be
subject to the penalties provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.15 BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in such manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog
or cat except for planned breeding. Upon capture and failure to reclaim the
animal, every dog or cat shall be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred
to a new owner.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
§ 90.16 POUND.
   Every year the Chief of Police shall designate an official pound or pound(s)
to which animals found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe
treatment, and if necessary, for destruction.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
§ 90.17 MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Unattended animals in streets, alleys, sidewalks, public places. No
owner shall permit any animal under his or her care, custody, or control to be
left standing unattended in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public place within
the city whether leashed or not.
   (B)   Attachment of animals to trees, posts prohibited. No owner shall
attach in any manner any animal under his or her care, custody, or control to
any tree, shrub, or other planting, or to any post or pole growing or being in
any public place within the city.
   (C)   Careless riding or driving. No owner shall ride or drive any animal
anywhere within the city carelessly or heedlessly, in disregard of the rights
or the safety of others or in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to
endanger any person or property.
   (D)   Seeing eye or hearing aide dogs permitted in public places. Whenever
any blind or hearing-impaired person accompanied by a “seeing eye” or “hearing
aide” dog presents himself or herself for accommodation or service on any
public conveyance vehicle or to any cafe, restaurant, store, or other place of
business open to the public, it shall be unlawful for the owner, proprietor,
manager, or operator of such vehicle or place of business to refuse admission
to the dog or service to the blind or hearing-impaired person.
   (E)   Animal traps and similar devices.  No person shall set, lay or prepare
any trap or mechanical device capable of killing, injuring or maiming any
person, domestic animal or wildlife. No owner or person having the care,
custody or control of any dwelling, building or other structure shall permit
such a trap or device to be set or to remain set on the premises inside or
outside such dwelling, building or structure.
      (1)   Exceptions. The provisions of this division do not apply:
         (a)   To representatives of the city, county, state, federal
government, or licensed pest control operators while in the course of their
official duties and a more humane trap is not available;
         (b)   Nor to property owners, their agents or their tenants who may
employ, on private property:
            1.   A trap specifically designed to eradicate rats, mice or moles;
            2.   A cage, box or enclosure-type device, in which an animal can
be confined, but which does not injure, maim or kill, to prevent an unsafe
condition or to prevent waste or destruction of their property.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.18 FEES AND FINES.
   Any fees or fines pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be set by
and amended, from time to time, by the City Council through resolution.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10)
§ 90.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Separate offenses.  Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such under this section.
   (B)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise set forth in this chapter, a person who
violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a petty misdemeanor
and punishable by a fine up to $300. A petty misdemeanor is as defined in M.S.
§ 609.02 and as amended.
      (2)   A person who violates any of the provisions of §
90.13(H) is guilty of a misdemeanor. A misdemeanor is as defined in M.S. §
609.02 and as amended.
      (3)   It is a misdemeanor to remove the microchip from a dangerous or
potentially dangerous animal, to fail to annually renew the registration of a
dangerous animal, to fail to account for a dangerous animal’s death or removal
from the city, to sign a false affidavit with respect to a dangerous dog’s
death or removal from the city, or to fail to disclose ownership of a dangerous
animal to a property owner from whom the person rents property.
      (4)   A person convicted of a second or subsequent violation of §
90.99(B)(2) or §
90.99(B)(3) is guilty of a gross misdemeanor as defined in M.S. § 609.02 and as
amended.
      (5)   A person who violates §
90.13(L) is guilty of a gross misdemeanor as defined herein.
   (C)   Any owner, harborer, or other persons, or the parents of any person
under 18 years of age violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
solely responsible for all costs associated with enforcement of this chapter
including, but not limited to, notice fees and costs, hearing fees and costs,
impound fees, boarding, notification of owners, and disposal.
(Ord. 1131.10, passed 2-1-10; Ord. 1135.11, passed 3-21-11)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Cemetery location; plat; limitations
   
91.02   Lot sales in City Cemetery
   
91.03   Permits for burial
   
91.04   Prohibited conduct in City Cemetery
Administration and Enforcement.
   
91.15   Cemetery Committee
   
91.16   Superintendent of City Cemetery
   
91.17   Payments and receipts; Cemetery Fund
   
91.18   Permanent Care and Improvement Fund
Cross-reference:
   
Parks Department; duties regarding cemeteries, see § 32.36
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 CEMETERY LOCATION; PLAT; LIMITATIONS.
   A cemetery has been established and is situated upon land owned by the city
within the limits of the city. A plat of the cemetery now on file in the office
of the City Clerk is hereby adopted as the official plat of the cemetery which
shall be called the Benson City Cemetery. No person shall lay out or establish
any cemetery, or use any lot of land within this city for the burial of the
dead except in the Benson City Cemetery, Our Redeemer's Cemetery, or some other
tract of land duly designated as a cemetery by the City Council.
('75 Code, § 5.601)
§ 91.02 LOT SALES IN CITY CEMETERY.
   The prices of cemetery lots and other services, as determined by Council
resolution, shall be filed with the City Clerk. Any person paying the price
thus fixed for any lot shall be entitled to a deed conveying the same executed
by the Mayor and Clerk. The purchaser shall expressly agree in the deed that
his or her rights are subject to such reasonable rules, regulations, and
additional fees as the Council may adopt relative to the use of the cemetery.
('75 Code, § 5.602)
§ 91.03 PERMITS FOR BURIAL.
   Before any interment shall be made in any cemetery in this city, a burial
permit shall be obtained from the local or the State Registrar of Vital
Statistics. The funeral director shall provide a burial permit to the city.
Within 36 hours after the death of any person in the city and before the body
is removed for burial within the city, the undertaker or person having charge
of the interment shall apply for the permit. This application shall be
accompanied by a death certificate as prescribed by the State Board of Health.
No burial permit shall be issued until the application and death certificate
shall have been properly completed and presented. The body of a deceased person
shall not be brought into the city for burial unless accompanied by a death
certificate and permit for removal issued by the registrar of the registration
district wherein the death occurred.
('75 Code, § 5.604)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.04 PROHIBITED CONDUCT IN CITY CEMETERY.
   (A)   No person may discharge any firearm or have possession of any firearm
within the cemetery grounds at any time except for use during military
services, Memorial Day observations, or use by law enforcement personnel.
   (B)   No person shall wrongfully take, remove, or convert to his or her own
use any property within the cemetery without the owner's consent, or make any
excavation therein without first obtaining the consent of the Cemetery
Superintendent.
   (C)   No person may wrongfully obstruct or blockade any driveway or pathway
within the cemetery or wrongfully damage or destroy any property within the
cemetery.
   (D)   No person may drive any motor vehicle at a speed in excess of five
miles per hour within the cemetery and such vehicles are confined to travel
established roadways except where the Cemetery Superintendent expressly
authorizes such travel elsewhere.
   (E)   No person shall disturb the dignity, peace, and quiet of the cemetery
by the use of excessive noise or boisterous and unruly conduct within the
limits of the cemetery.
   (F)   No person shall enter or leave the cemetery except through established
gateways provided for such purpose.
   (G)   No person may use the cemetery grounds or any road therein as a public
thoroughfare nor drive any vehicle in or upon the cemetery grounds except for
legitimate purposes relating to the ordinary and customary use of the cemetery.
   (H)   No minor child shall be permitted within the limits of the cemetery
unless in the company of an adult or with the consent of the Cemetery
Superintendent.
   (I)   No person may allow any animal to run at large in the cemetery.
   (J)   No person may loiter at any time nor be in the cemetery without
permission of the Cemetery Superintendent at any time between the hours of
sunset and 6:00 a.m.
('75 Code, § 5.606)
Penalty, see § 10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.15 CEMETERY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Committee established. A committee is hereby established for the
purpose of advising and assisting the City Council and the Superintendent of
the City Cemetery in the administration, maintenance, and improvement of the
Benson City Cemetery.
('75 Code, § 5.6000)
   (B)   Membership of Cemetery Committee. The Benson City Cemetery Committee
shall be composed of five members who shall be appointed to such membership by
the City Council. The first members to be appointed shall serve for the
following terms of office, to-wit: one member shall serve for a term of one
year, two members shall serve for a term of two years, and two members shall
serve for a term of three years. After the expiration of the first terms of
office all members shall thereafter be appointed for a term of three successive
years. The City Manager and the Superintendent of the City Cemetery shall serve
as ex-officio, non-voting members of said Committee. The City Manager shall
also serve as the Secretary of the Cemetery Committee and shall also act as
liaison between said Committee and the City Council.
('75 Code, § 5.6001)
   (C)   Meetings; term of office of Chairperson. The Cemetery Committee shall
hold an annual meeting on the third Tuesday of each January for the purpose of
electing a Chairperson and transacting such other business as may come before
the meeting. The term of office for the Chairperson shall be for a period of
one year, but he or she may be thereafter re-elected to said office. The
Chairperson or the City Manager may call other meetings of the Cemetery
Committee.
('75 Code, § 5.6002)
(Ord. 1027.82, passed 8-5-82)
Cross-reference:
   
Cemetery Commission as Cemetery Committee, see § 32.55
§ 91.16 SUPERINTENDENT OF CITY CEMETERY.
   The City Council shall appoint a Superintendent who shall have control and
management of the cemetery and be responsible for its maintenance and
improvement. He or she shall have such powers and duties as are prescribed by
law or by the City Council.
('75 Code, § 5.605)
§ 91.17 PAYMENTS AND RECEIPTS; CEMETERY FUND.
   All money received from the sale of lots, donations to the cemetery, and
other services shall be paid to the City Treasurer who shall give a receipt
therefore. No deed to any cemetery lot shall be issued until a receipt showing
payment to the Treasurer of the cost thereof shall be exhibited to the person
whose duty it is to give the deed. All money received from the sale of lots and
for the performance of services shall be placed in the Cemetery Fund, which
fund shall be used for the payment of the purchase price of grounds or for
maintenance and improvements and for no other purpose. The Treasurer shall keep
an account of all receipts and disbursements of money belonging to the Cemetery
Fund and shall pay money out of the Fund only on orders approved by the City
Council, which orders shall specify that the money shall be paid from the
Cemetery Fund.
('75 Code, § 5.603)
§ 91.18 PERMANENT CARE AND IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. A Permanent Care and Improvement Fund is hereby
established as a separate fund for use in maintaining, caring for, and
improving the cemetery and cemetery lots in the city cemetery known and
designated as the “Benson City Cemetery.” The interest accruing from the amount
set aside from the sale of lots shall be expended in caring for and keeping
such lots and cemetery except as provided in subsection (C). Proceeds to the
fund are to be collected by the City Clerk from the sale of lots by the city
and shall equal 20% of the sale price.
('75 Code, § 5.700)
   (B)   Investment of funds. On the 1st day of January, April, July, and
October in each year, all sums credited to the Permanent Care and Improvement
Fund shall be invested in the same securities in which savings banks are by law
permitted to invest. Records of the investments shall be kept and maintained in
the office of the City Clerk showing the nature and amount of the invested
funds. Any of the income unexpended and unappropriated for one year after
becoming available for care, maintenance, or improvement shall be returned to
the Fund and become a part of the principal.
('75 Code, § 5.701)
   (C)   Donations. The city is authorized to receive, accept, and deposit any
donation or gift of money made to said Fund, and any such donation or gift
together with the interest therefrom shall be used for the purpose specified by
the donor, but if the donor fails to designate the specific purpose for which
the gift is to be used then such gift or donation shall be deposited to such
Fund and the interest therefrom shall be used in the care and beautifying of
the City Cemetery or for the care and beautifying of any particular lot or lots
in said Cemetery, provided, however, that if funds are lacking for the general
care of the Cemetery, then in the discretion of the city, a one-fifth part of
the income received annually from that portion of the Permanent Fund credited
to any particular lot or lots may be used for the general care of the Cemetery.
('75 Code, § 5.702)
   (D)   Accounting. On or before January 31 of each year a full and complete
written accounting shall be made to the City Council of the city reporting in
detail the nature and value of all assets deposited to said Fund and where all
cash deposits are invested, to include the amount of each and every such
investment; the nature and amount of all gifts and donations made to the Fund
during the year; the income earned from said Fund; and the nature and amount of
each and every disbursement from said Fund, together with such other
information that shall be needed to provide a full and complete accounting of
the operation of said Fund.
('75 Code, § 5.703)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Rubbish and refuse
   
92.02   Water discharge
   
92.03   Obstructions; exceptions
   
92.04   Gasoline pumps
   
92.05   Alterations
   
92.06   Receiving and delivering goods
   
92.07   Awnings
   
92.08   Handbills on poles
Excavations
   
92.20   Permit required
   
92.21   Permit application; emergencies
   
92.22   Permit application notice
   
92.23   Permit deposit
   
92.24   Permit issuance
   
92.25   Regulations for public safety
   
92.26   Protection of existing improvements
   
92.27   Completion of work
   
92.28   Report upon completion of work
Current Services
   
92.40   Definitions
   
92.41   Snow and rubbish as nuisances; removal required
   
92.42   Snow and rubbish removal by city
   
92.43   Weeds and grasses as nuisances; elimination required
   
92.44   Weed and grass elimination notice; removal by city
   
92.45   Street sprinkling, tree care, and the like; notice of proposed projects
   
92.46   Street sprinkling, tree care, and the like hearings; completion of
project
   
92.47   Liability for costs of current services
   
92.48   Assessment
   
92.49   Sidewalk, curb, and gutter repair appropriations
   
92.50   Sidewalk, curb, and gutter repair projects; notice and hearing
   
92.51   Sidewalk, curb, and gutter repair liability; assessment
Cross-reference:
   
Public utility franchises required to place and maintain fixtures on public
ways, see Charter Ch. 10
   
Vacation of streets, see Charter § 12.06
   
Street Department, see § 32.33
   
Bicycles; riding on sidewalks, see § 72.13
   
Motor vehicles as nuisances, see § 95.04
   
Subdivisions; provisions related to streets, § 153.36 inter alia
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 RUBBISH AND REFUSE.
   (A)   Depositing of rubbish and refuse. No person shall place or deposit
earth, dirt, ashes, paper, refuse, offal, garbage, or any other offensive
matter or substance in or upon any street, alley, or public ground, railroad,
right-of-way, or vacant lots within the limits of the city without permission
of the Council. Fresh ashes may be placed in any alley during months from
September to the following April inclusive.
('75 Code, § 6.101)
   (B)   Receptacle requirement.  No person shall permit or suffer letters,
paper, rubbish, and other offensive matter subject to being carried by the wind
to remain upon premises owned or occupied by him or her except that they be
confined in a suitable receptacle which will prevent their being scattered by
the wind or other means upon the public grounds or streets of the city.
('75 Code, § 6.102)
(Penalty, see § 10.99)
Cross-reference:
   
Solid waste, see Ch. 51
§ 92.02 WATER DISCHARGE.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct or maintain any water pipe
or conductor of any kind in such manner that the same shall conduct or
discharge the waters from the roof or other parts of any building upon or over
any sidewalk in the city.
('75 Code, § 6.103)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   
Sewers; storm water, unpolluted water, and the like, see § 52.50
§ 92.03 OBSTRUCTIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall place or suffer to remain any farming implements or
any agricultural or other machinery in or upon any street, lane, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place in the city. No person shall in any manner or
with any article or thing encumber or obstruct any street, lane, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place in the city, provided, however, that any person
owning or operating a business establishment for the retail sale of merchandise
in the city may use the sidewalk adjacent to his or her business premises for
the purpose of displaying and selling merchandise, and also, a person or
organization may use all or a portion of a street, lane, alley, sidewalk, or
other public place in the city for temporary use for special events, but only
after such person or organization first obtains a written permit allowing such
use from the City Manager. The City Manager shall have the authority to grant
or deny such permit and if granted he or she shall have the authority to
determine the terms, conditions, and duration of such special use permit. The
City Council may revoke such permit at any time if such person receiving the
permit violates the terms and conditions thereof. The person receiving such
permit shall be required to pay a fee as may be adopted from time to time by
Council resolution or ordinance to the city upon receipt thereof.
   (B)   Construction material may be stored in the public right-of-way
pursuant to the provisions of §
150.17.
('75 Code, § 6.104) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety; obstruction of streets and
sidewalks, see §
93.04
   Building code; permit for deposit of building materials, see §
150.17
§ 92.04 GASOLINE PUMPS.
   No person shall install, operate, or maintain curb pumps or other gasoline
dispensing devices on the public streets, alleys, or other public property of
the city.
('75 Code, § 6.105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 ALTERATIONS.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall make any change in the sidewalks,
curb, gutters, or driveways or construct new ones without first obtaining a
permit therefor from the City Council.
('75 Code, § 6.106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 RECEIVING AND DELIVERING GOODS.
   No person receiving or delivering goods, wares, or merchandise in the city
shall take or keep upon any sidewalk goods, wares, or merchandise without
leaving a clear passageway not less than three feet wide for the use of
pedestrians.
('75 Code, § 6.107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 AWNINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to put up, erect,
or maintain on the front or side of any building in the city any awning of any
kind or description which extends over any part of a sidewalk unless such
awning is so constructed that the lowest part thereof is at all times not less
than seven feet above the sidewalk. Any such awning now put up, placed, or
maintained on the front or side of any building which does not comply with the
foregoing provisions shall be removed by the owner or person in control
thereof.
('75 Code, § 6.108) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety; obstruction of streets and
sidewalks, see §
93.04
§ 92.08 HANDBILLS ON POLES.
   No person shall attach or post any papers, bills, notices, tags, or any
other matter or thing to or upon any lamppost, electric light or telephone
pole, or any other pole or post set up, erected, or maintained by the city in
any street, alley, or public place.
('75 Code, § 6.109) Penalty, see §
10.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 92.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make an excavation in any street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public ground for any purpose other than in fulfilling the obligations of a
contract awarded by the city without first obtaining a permit as outlined in §
92.21 et seq. No permit shall be required for any excavation made by a public
utility company for the sole purpose of installing a utility pole, anchor, or
guy wire.
('75 Code, § 6.201) (Ord 1009.78, passed - -78)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   
Parking regulations; construction of driveways, see § 71.12
§ 92.21 PERMIT APPLICATION; EMERGENCIES.
   Applications shall provide for the name and address of the applicant, shall
state in detail the nature and character of the excavation to be made and the
location thereof, and shall enable the city to fully evaluate the nature of the
work to be accomplished and the extent to which it will conform to the
requirements of this subchapter. In the event of an emergency, such work as is
required to alleviate the emergency may be accomplished without benefit of
permit. In this event, however, application for a permit shall be made during
the next succeeding work day, and the applicant shall be subject to all of the
remaining provisions of this subchapter.
('75 Code, § 6.202) (Ord. 1009.78, passed - -78)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.22 PERMIT APPLICATION NOTICE.
   Prior to the issuance of an excavation permit, the applicant shall present
to the City Manager a written statement indicating that the applicant has
contacted all the utilities and that adequate provisions to prevent damage to
any utility have been made.
('75 Code, § 6.203) (Ord. 1009.78, passed - -78)
§ 92.23 PERMIT DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Each application shall be accompanied by a deposit fee as may be
adopted from time to time by Council resolution or ordinance to be paid by the
applicant.
   (B)   That deposit shall be held undeposited by the city for 45 days or
until the excavation has been properly returned to the same condition it was in
before work commenced, or a better condition, and has been inspected to ensure
compliance with city standards. When compliance is achieved, the deposit shall
be returned to the permit holder.
   (C)   Failure to completely restore the public right-of-way to city
specifications within 45 days shall cause forfeiture of that amount of the
deposit necessary to cover city expenses in restoring the street to city
specifications.
   (D)   If in the judgement of the City Manager the excavation applied for
shall constitute a major disturbance on any street, alley, or other public
ground, the City Manager shall refer the application to the City Council which
shall have the power to set a higher deposit fee than herein specified.
   (E)   If in the judgement of the City Manager the excavation applied for
shall not involve a disturbance of any improved street, alley, or public ground
and the excavation shall be done by trenching in underground lines and cables,
the City Manager may allow the waiver of the deposit. However, all other
provisions of this subchapter shall be binding upon the applicant.
('75 Code, § 6.204) (Ord. 1009.78, passed - -78)
§ 92.24 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The City Manager shall issue an excavation permit if he or she is satisfied
that all conditions have been met and that the excavation shall be made in
compliance with the law.
('75 Code, § 6.205) (Ord. 1009.78, passed - -78)
§ 92.25 REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC SAFETY.
   Before commencing any excavation, the holder of the permit for a particular
project shall set up an effective system to protect and safely guard vehicular
traffic and pedestrians through the construction area, or detour them when
necessary, and provide for the public safety in general. The contractor shall
utilize signs, flags, flashers, barricades, fences, flange, and such other
methods or devices as are necessary to adequately warn the public of the
hazards involved. One or more warning lights, visible from all directions, must
be fixed to such site-protective devices from twilight to dawn to warn of the
present obstruction. The public safety must be ensured at all times. No
blasting shall be allowed except upon permission of the Council.
('75 Code, § 6.207) (Ord. 1009.78, passed - -78)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   
Public nuisances affecting peace and safety; dangerous, unguarded machinery and
unprotected   
excavations, see § 93.04
§ 92.26 PROTECTION OF EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS.
   The contractor holding the permit shall be responsible for the protection,
repair, or replacement of all improvements which exist within the limits of the
construction area. For the purpose of this section, the term IMPROVEMENT shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the following: water lines, sanitary and
storm sewer lines, white-way lighting, traffic signal systems, traffic signs,
top soil, sod, trees, public utility lines and systems, and street improvements
including subgrade, base pavement, or other surfacing, curbs, gutters, medians,
sidewalks, and all of the various appurtenances of these improvements. All
improvements and restoration shall be subject to the specifications and
requirements imposed by the Council.
('75 Code, § 6.208) (Ord. 1009.78, passed - -78)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.28 COMPLETION OF WORK.
   All work covered under this code shall be accomplished expeditiously in
order to avoid unnecessary inconvenience to traffic and pedestrians, and for
the protection of other public interest. In the event that the work is not
being accomplished expeditiously, or if the work on an excavation is ceased or
abandoned without due cause, the city may, following notice to the holder of
the permit, correct and/or complete the required work and effect all
restoration as required by this subchapter. In the event city forces accomplish
the work in accordance with the provisions herein, the entire cost of such
work, including any materials used therefore, shall be a liability of the
holder of the permit. Thereafter, if payment is not made within 30 days of the
billing date for work involved, no additional permits shall be issued to that
contractor until payment has been made by the contractor or by his or her
bonding company.
('75 Code, § 6.209) (Ord. 1009.78, passed - -78)
§ 92.27 REPORT UPON COMPLETION OF WORK.
   Within five working days after completing any work on or in connection with
the city's water, sanitary storm, or sewage system or in installing underground
lines or cables, including gas, CATV, and phone, the applicant shall file with
the City Manager a complete record of the work done, together with a diagram
showing the exact location of each curb box, meter, or other underground device
with measurements sufficient to properly describe its location in the street,
alley, or public ground.
('75 Code, § 6.206) (Ord. 1009.78, passed - -78)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CURRENT SERVICES
§ 92.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CENTRAL BUSINESS SNOW REMOVAL AREA. That area designated as a B-1 zone
according to the official Zoning Map of the city; all public sidewalks adjacent
to the perimeter of the B-1 zone; public sidewalks on the north side of
Atlantic Avenue and on the south side of Pacific Avenue between 11th and 12th
Streets and between 14th and 15th Streets; and public sidewalks on the west
side of 14th Street between Wisconsin Avenue and McGivney Avenue.
   CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice, or rubbish removal
from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots adjacent to sidewalks
or streets or from private property; street sprinkling; street flushing, light
street oiling, or dust treatment of streets and alleys; repair of curbs and
sidewalks; and the trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and
insect-infested trees from the public streets and alleys or private property.
('75 Code, § 6.301) (Ord. 1054.86, passed - -86 )
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Map, see §
154.057
§ 92.41 SNOW AND RUBBISH AS NUISANCES; REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   All snow, ice, dirt, and rubbish remaining on a public sidewalk located in
the central business snow removal area after 12:01 p.m. of the day following
cessation of its deposit thereon or on any other public sidewalk more than 72
hours after its deposit thereon is a public nuisance. The owner and the
occupant of any property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use due diligence
to keep such walk safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow,
ice, dirt, or rubbish to remain on a public sidewalk adjacent to his or her
property located in the central business snow removal area after 12:01 p.m. of
the day following the cessation of its deposit thereon or on a public sidewalk
adjacent to his or her property located anywhere else within the city longer
than 72 hours after its deposit thereon. However, the city may suspend snow
removal requirements in certain areas where the walking traffic is light and
unusually severe conditions make snow removal or ice removal unreasonable.
('75 Code, § 6.302) (Ord. 1054.86, passed - -86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   
Public nuisances affecting peace and safety; snow and ice on sidewalks, see §
93.04
§ 92.42 SNOW AND RUBBISH REMOVAL BY CITY.
   The City Council may designate an official of the city who shall cause the
removal from all public sidewalks of snow, ice, dirt, or rubbish as soon as
possible beginning not sooner than 12:01 p.m. of the day following the
cessation of its deposit thereon for public sidewalks located in the central
business snow removal area and not sooner than 72 hours for any other public
sidewalks after any such matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow
has ceased to fall. He or she shall keep a record showing the cost of such
removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel and shall deliver such
information to the City Manager.
('75 Code, § 6.303) (Ord. 1054.86, passed - -86)
Cross-reference:
   
Motor vehicles impeding city services or traffic as nuisances, see § 95.04
   
Parking; snow emergencies, see § 71.13
§ 92.43 WEEDS AND GRASSES AS NUISANCES; ELIMINATION REQUIRED.
   Any weeds or grasses, whether noxious as defined by law or not, growing upon
any lot or parcel of land within the city to a height greater than 12 inches on
the average or which have gone or are about to go to seed are a nuisance. The
owner or occupant shall abate or prevent such nuisance on such property and on
the land outside the graveled portion of the street or alley abutting on such
property.
('75 Code, § 6.304)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   
Public nuisances affecting health; weeds, see § 93.02
§ 92.44 WEED AND GRASS ELIMINATION NOTICE; REMOVAL BY CITY.
   On or before June 1 of each year and at such other times as ordered by
resolution of the Council, the City Manager shall publish once in the official
newspaper notice directing owners and occupants of property within the city to
destroy or mow all weeds or grasses declared to be a nuisance and stating that
if not mowed or destroyed before they are 12 inches in height the city shall
cause the weeds or grasses to be destroyed at the expense of the owner and if
not paid, the charge for such work will be made a special assessment against
the property concerned. The Council shall cause records to be kept showing the
cost of such work attributable to each separate lot or parcel and shall deliver
said information to the City Manager.
('75 Code, § 6.305)
§ 92.45 STREET SPRINKLING, TREE CARE, AND THE LIKE; NOTICE OF PROPOSED
PROJECTS.
   The Council may each year determine by resolution what streets and alleys
shall be sprinkled or flushed, oiled, or given dust treatment during the year
and the kind of work to be done on each. The Council shall also determine by
resolution from time to time the streets on which trees shall be trimmed and
cared for, the kind of work to be done, and what unsound trees shall be
removed. Before any work is done pursuant to either of these resolutions, the
City Manager shall, under the Council direction, publish notice that the
Council will meet to consider such projects. Such notice shall be published in
the official newspaper at least once no less than one week prior to such
meeting of the Council and the notice shall state the date, time, and place of
such meeting, the streets affected, the particular projects proposed, and the
estimated cost of each project either on a total project basis or on the basis
of the proposed assessment per front foot or otherwise.
('75 Code, § 6.306)
§ 92.46 STREET SPRINKLING, TREE CARE, AND THE LIKE HEARINGS; COMPLETION OF
PROJECT.
   At a hearing or at any adjournment thereof, the Council shall hear property
owners with reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed projects.
The Council may thereupon adopt a resolution confirming the original projects
with such modifications as it considers desirable and shall provide for the
doing of the work by day labor through a designated city official or by
contract. The designated official shall keep a record of the cost and the
portion of the cost properly attributed to each lot or parcel of property
abutting the street or alley on which the work is done and shall report such
information to the City Manager.
('75 Code, § 6.307)
§ 92.47 LIABILITY FOR COSTS OF CURRENT SERVICES.
   The owner of property on which or adjacent to which snow, ice, or rubbish
removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots adjacent to
sidewalks or streets or from private property; street sprinkling; street
flushing, light street oiling, or dust treatment of streets and alleys has been
performed shall be personally liable for the cost of such service. As soon as
the service has been completed and the cost determined, the City Manager shall
prepare a bill and mail it to the owner or occupant and thereupon the amount
shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Manager.
('75 Code, § 6.308)
§ 92.48 ASSESSMENT.
   On or before October 1 of each year, the City Manager shall list the total
unpaid charges for snow, ice, or rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed
elimination from street grass plots adjacent to sidewalks or streets or from
private property; street sprinkling; street flushing, light street oiling, or
dust treatment of streets and alleys against each separate lot or parcel to
which they are attributable under this code. The Council may then spread the
charges against the property benefitted as a special assessment under M.S. §
429.101 and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor
and collection the following year along with the current taxes.
('75 Code, § 6.309)
§ 92.49 SIDEWALK, CURB, AND GUTTER REPAIR APPROPRIATIONS.
   The city finds that a continuing program for the making of sidewalk, curb,
and gutter repairs and maintenance is necessary and in the best interest of the
city and that by reason thereof the City Council may appropriate funds for such
purposes.
('75 Code, § 6.310) (Ord. 1050.84, passed 8-20-84)
§ 92.50 SIDEWALK, CURB, AND GUTTER REPAIR PROJECTS; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   The City Manager or such other official as may be designated by the City
Council shall have the duty to make such inspections as are necessary to
determine that sidewalks, curbs, and gutters within the city are kept in repair
and safe for pedestrians. Each year such official shall prepare a report
specifying the sidewalks, curbs, and gutters which are scheduled to be repaired
for that calendar year, which report shall include the name and address of each
of the owners of property abutting upon any area of sidewalk, curb, or gutter
to be repaired, the approximate length of such area to be repaired for each of
said owners, the estimated cost thereof, as well as each owner's possessive
share of such estimated cost, together with such other information as such
official shall deem necessary. Said report shall be filed with the City Manager
and be open to public inspection and shall be presented to the City Council on
or before May 1 of each year for appropriate action. The City Council shall,
upon final approval of the report, set a date for a public hearing thereon and
shall publish notice of the hearing for one week in a newspaper designated by
the city for such published notices and make service of said notice by
certified mail or by personal service upon each owner. Publication and service
of said notice shall be made at least two weeks prior to the date of the
hearing. The notice shall state the date, time, and place of the hearing, the
general nature of the repair, the area proposed to be assessed, that the report
concerning such repairs is on file with the City Manager, and that written or
oral objections to said repairs by any property owner will be considered. The
notice shall further state that an owner may appeal an assessment to district
court pursuant to M.S. § 429.081 by serving notice of the appeal upon the Mayor
or City Manager within 30 days after the adoption of the assessment and filing
such notice with the district court within ten days after service upon the
Mayor or City Manager, and shall inform property owners of the provisions of
M.S. §§ 435.193 through 435.195 and the existence of any deferment procedure
established pursuant thereto by the city. At said public hearing the City
Council shall consider all matters presented for and against said proposed
sidewalk, curb, and gutter repairs and then make a final determination as to
which sidewalk, curb, and gutter repairs shall be made and such other
determinations as may be necessary for the completion of and payment for said
sidewalk, curb, and gutter repairs.
('75 Code, § 6.311) (Ord. 1050.84, passed 8-20-84)
§ 92.51 SIDEWALK, CURB, AND GUTTER REPAIR LIABILITY; ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The cost of all sidewalk, curb, and gutter repairs made under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be shared in the following manner:
      (1)   All sidewalk, curb, and gutter repairs abutting upon residential
property shall be fully paid for by the city along all side streets, and one-
half thereof on all sidewalks, curbs, and gutters along front streets, and the
owner of the property abutting thereon shall pay the remaining one-half of the
cost thereof.
      (2)   All sidewalk, curb, and gutter repairs abutting upon property
located in any business district which abuts upon commercial property shall be
fully paid for by the city along side streets where the commercial building
adjacent thereto has no entrance facing the street which entrance is normally
used as a customer entrance to said building, but if said building has such
customer entrance or entrances, then the city shall pay for one-half of the
cost of said sidewalk, curb, and gutter repairs and the owner of the property
abutting thereon shall pay for the remaining one-half thereof, and the city
shall pay for one-half of the cost of said sidewalk, curb, and gutter repairs
made along all front and back streets and the owner of the property abutting
thereon shall pay the remaining one-half of the cost thereof.
   (B)   The cost assessed against each of said owners shall be required to be
fully paid within 30 days after the date of the mailing of said notice setting
forth his or her share of the cost thereof. If any owner fails to make full
payment within said time, the City Council may spread the charges so unpaid
against the real property of such owner as a special assessment under M.S. §
429.101 and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor
for collection with current real estate taxes. At the time of such
certification, the City Council shall direct that said special assessment shall
be payable in a single installment or it may proceed that it be paid in up to
five equal annual installments.
('75 Code, § 6.312) (Ord. 1050.84, passed 8-20-84)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
   
93.01   Public nuisances defined
   
93.02   Refuse, junk, and nuisance regulations, prohibitions and remedies
   
93.03   Abatement of nuisances without special assessments
   
93.04   Abatement of nuisances with special assessments
   
93.05   Abatement by city
   
93.06   Disposal of items by city and allocation of proceeds
   
93.07   Failure to abate nuisance on business premises
   
93.08   Immediate abatement
   
93.09   Recovery of cost
   
93.10   Duties of city officers
   
93.11   Public nuisances affecting health
   
93.12   Maintenance of woodland, turfgrasses, noxious weeds, and vegetations on
private property
   
93.13   Demolition waste and tire disposal
   
93.14   Obstructions on public property
   
93.15   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
93.16   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
93.17   Fuel storage; accumulation of junk
   
93.18   Public nuisances caused by sound
   
93.19   Violation a misdemeanor
Cross-reference:
   Nuisance animals, see § 90.22
   
Dutch Elm Disease; nuisances declared, see § 94.03
   
Motor vehicles as nuisances, see § 95.04
§ 93.01 PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally
does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures,
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort, or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or this chapter
to be a public nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.S. § 609.74
§ 93.02 REFUSE, JUNK, AND NUISANCE REGULATIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Council finds that the unregulated deposit, accumulation and
storage of refuse represent a threat to the health, safety, welfare and comfort
of city residents. It is the policy of the city to abate such conditions as
they currently exist, as well as to take those steps necessary to prevent the
creation of these conditions in the future. The city recognizes that, while the
regulations, prohibitions and remedies provided for herein are comprehensive,
such measures are absolutely essential to promote the protection of the
residents and the ecology of the city.
      (2)   Private property. The Council finds that accumulation on private
property of unlicensed, unregistered inoperable motor vehicles, household
furniture, furnishings or appliance, or parts or components thereof, or metal,
wood, glass, paper, rubber, concrete, or other material, whether organic or
inorganic, can facilitate the growth or spread of noxious weeds, the nesting
and breeding of rodents, insects and harmful bacteria, and be a threat of fire.
The Council also finds that unless such accumulation is stored in a lawfully
operated junk yard, housed within a lawfully erected building, or in a
container permitted, and the contents disposed of, under provisions of the city
code, it is a source of filth, cause of sickness, and an immediate danger to
the health, safety and welfare of persons and property in the city. The Council
finds that if such unauthorized unwholesome and dangerous accumulation is
permitted to continue to pose such a threat it is a hazardous condition and a
nuisance, must be abated, and that this section is adopted to protect the
residents of the city and their property and, in addition, to protect the
rights of persons who may be found in violation of its provisions. ACCUMULATION
that term is used in this division (2), means prohibited items in any number or
amount.
      (3)    Business premises. The Council finds that accumulation upon
premises to which the public has access or may be exposed of food particles or
other material causing discomfort to patrons, or disrepair of seating, floor
covering, plumbing, heating, or electrical facilities, or failure to maintain a
reasonable standard of cleanliness and absence of noxious odors, can facilitate
the nesting and breeding of rodents, insects, and harmful bacterial and is a
source of filth, cause of sickness, and an immediate danger to the health,
safety and welfare of persons and property in the city. The Council finds that
if such unauthorized, unwholesome and dangerous accumulation is permitted to
continue to pose such a threat it is a hazardous condition and a nuisance, must
be abated, and that this section is adopted to protect the residents of the
city and their property and, in addition, to protect the rights of persons who
may be harmed in violation of its provisions. ACCUMULATION as that term is used
in this division (3), means prohibited items or conditions in any number or
amount.
   (B)    Unlawful acts and enforcement.
      (1)   It is unlawful to park or store any unlicensed, unregistered or
inoperable motor vehicle, household furniture, furnishings or appliances, or
parts or components thereof, or scrap metal, wood, glass, paper, rubber,
concrete, or other material, whether organic or inorganic, on private property,
unless such accumulation is stored within a lawfully operated junkyard, housed
within a lawfully erected building, or a container permitted, and the contents
disposed of, under other provisions of the city code.
      (2)   It is unlawful to permit, on premises to which the public has
access or may be exposed, any accumulation of food particles or other material
causing discomfort to patrons, or disrepair of seating, floor covering,
plumbing heating or electrical facilities, or failure to maintain a reasonable
standard of cleanliness and absence of noxious odors.
      (3)   As to any provision of this section which constitutes an unlawful
act, and in addition to all of the civil proceedings described in this section,
each day that a violation continues, or is permitted to continue, shall
constitute a separate offense in prosecution of such unlawful act.
   (C)   Definitions. The following terms, as used in this section, shall have
the meanings stated:
      (1)  JUNK. Means and includes all:
         (a)   Unregistered, unlicensed or inoperable (including but not
limited to, the lack of component parts) motor vehicles, motorized vehicles or
equipment, bicycles, boats, outboard motors, or trailers, or parts or
components thereof;
         (b)   Inoperable (including, but not limited to, the lack of component
parts) agricultural implements or parts or components thereof, machines and
mechanical equipment of all kinds or parts or components thereof, and by-
products or waste from manufacturing operations of all kinds;
         (c)   Used lumber or waste resulting from building construction,
renovation, remodeling, or demolition; or
         (d)   Felled trees and tree branches that are not immediately
processed into lumber, wood for fuel, fence components, or other such ultimate
use.
      (2)   REFUSE. All organic and inorganic:
         (a)   Material resulting from the manufacture, preparation or serving
of food or food products;
         (b)   Spoiled, decayed or waste feed from any source;
         (c)   Bottles, cans, glassware, paper or paper products, crockery,
ashes, rags and discarded clothing;
         (d)   Tree, lawn or bush clippings and weeds;
         (e)   Furniture, household furnishings or appliances, or parts or
components thereof;
         (f)   Scrap metal, wood, glass, paper, rubber, concrete; or
         (g)   Human or household waste of all kinds not included in any other
portion of this definition.
   (D)   Junk storage.
      (1)   It is unlawful to park or store junk on any premises unless it is
housed within a completely enclosed building or on duly licensed junk yard
premises and a permitted use pursuant to
Chapter 154, Zoning.
      (2)   If any person fails or refuses to comply with division (D)(1) of
this section, the city may, proceed with §
93.03 below as an additional and not alternate to any other remedy provided
herein.
   (E)   Refuse storage.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to store refuse on residential
premises or commercial premises for a continuous period in excess of seven
days.
      (2)   It is unlawful to store organic refuse unless it is drained,
wrapped (in paper or plastic) and placed in an impervious and leak-proof
container with a tight-fitting cover.
   (F)   Mandatory collection of refuse.
      (1)   It is unlawful for each occupant of residential premises or
commercial premises to fail or refuse to subscribe for, receive and pay for the
refuse connection services of a garbage and refuse hauler contracted for by the
city. For purposes of this paragraph OCCUPANT shall include any occupant having
attained the age majority, and shall also include a minor occupant if such
minor is the owner or lessee of, or otherwise has legal control over, such
premises.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to impede, hinder or interfere with a
garbage and refuse hauler in the performance of its duties.
      (3)   If any person fails or refuses to comply with divisions (F)(1) or
(2) of this section, the city may proceed with §
93.03 below as an additional and not alternate to any other remedy provided
herein.
   (G)   Additional unlawful acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to deposit offal or the body of a
dead animal in any place other than facilities approved by statute or the city
code.
      (2)    It is unlawful for any person to store, deposit or dispose of any
refuse which is in flames or heated to the point of danger of fire.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE WITHOUT SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Investigation and notice of hearing. Upon receipt of a written signed
complaint of violation of this section, or at its own initiative, the Council
shall investigate the premises and if it is alleged that there is a public
nuisance condition on any premises in violation of this section, the same shall
be reported to the City Administrator or City Clerk who shall prepare a notice
addressed to owners of the property and to the residents of the property, if
different than the owners, and bearing the legal description of the premises on
which the alleged violation appears. The notice shall state the date, time and
place of hearing and describe the violation in general terms.
   (B)   Service of notice. The notice shall be served at least 14 days before
the date of hearing in the following manner:
      (1)   It shall be served personally on the addressee or left at his or
her residence with a person of suitable age and discretion. Addressees not
served personally shall be served by regular and certified mail at their
addresses appearing in records selected by the City Clerk; and
      (2)   Inadvertent failure to serve any addressee via regular and
certified mail shall not invalidate the proceedings, but publication 14 days
prior the hearing shall then suffice.
   (C)   Content of notice. The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, and location of public hearing;
      (2)   The general nature of proposed abatement of nuisance condition;
      (3)   Legal description of real property of proposed abatement of
nuisance and special assessment;
      (4)   A statement that written and oral objections regarding the proposed
abatement of public nuisance on real property will be considered at the public
hearing; and
      (5)   Statement that the Council may move to abate the public nuisance at
the hearing.
   (D)   Hearing, findings and decision.
      (1)   The hearing shall be held before the Council at a regular or
special meeting. All persons desiring to be heard shall be afforded an
opportunity to present evidence.
      (2)   The Council shall decide whether or not the item or items
constitute a public nuisance in violation of this section and direct the
drawing and serving of a resolution with the findings of fact and decision by
certified mail on all addressees.
      (3)   Estimated value, if any, of all offensive items described in
division (D)(2) above, shall be included in the evidence and in the findings.
VALUE , for the purpose of this section, means the amount of money, in cash,
which can be obtained in a negotiated sale on a known and ready market in the
city.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07; Ord. 1140.12, passed 8-6-12)
§ 93.04 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES WITH SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Investigation and notice of hearing. Upon receipt of a written signed
complaint of violation of this section, or at its own initiative, the Council
shall investigate the premises and if it is found that there is a public
nuisance condition on any premises in violation of this section, the same shall
be reported to the City Administrator or City Clerk who shall prepare a notice
addressed to owners of the property and to the residents of the property, if
different than the owners, and bearing the legal description of the premises on
which the alleged violation appears. The notice shall state the date, time and
place of hearing and describe the violation in general terms.
   (B)   Service of notice. The notice shall be served at least 14 days before
the date of hearing in the following manner:
      (1)   It shall be served personally on the addressee or left at his or
her residence with a person of suitable age and discretion. Addressees not
served personally shall be served by regular and certified mail at their
addresses appearing in records selected by the City Clerk;
      (2)   By publication of the notice twice in the official newspaper for
two consecutive weeks at least 14 days prior to the date of hearing; and
      (3)   Inadvertent failure to serve any addressee via regular and
certified mail shall not invalidate the proceedings, but publication shall then
suffice.
   (C)   Content of notice. The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, and location of public hearing;
      (2)   A general nature of proposed abatement of nuisance condition;
      (3)   Legal description of real property of proposed abatement of
nuisance and special assessment;
      (4)   A reasonable estimate of the amount of the special assessment;
      (5)   A statement that a reasonable estimate of the impact of the
assessment will be available at the hearing;
      (6)   A statement that written and oral objections regarding the proposed
special assessment against the real property will be considered at the public
hearing;
      (7)   A statement that no appeal may be taken as the amount of the
assessment unless a written objection is filed prior to the hearing or
presented to the presiding officer at the hearing;
      (8)   A statement that an owner may appeal an assessment to district
court pursuant to M.S. § 429.081 by serving notice of the appeal on the Mayor
or Clerk of the city within 30 days after the adoption of the assessment and
filing such notice with the district court within ten days after service upon
the Mayor or Clerk.
      (9)   Notice should also inform property owners of the provision of M.S.
§§ 435.193 to 435.195, and the existence of any deferment procedure established
pursuant thereto in the municipality.
      (10)   Statement that adoption by the Council of the proposed assessments
may be taken at the hearing, and the property owners have the right to prepay
the entire special assessments to the city and whether partial prepayment has
been authorized by ordinance;
      (11)   Statement of the time which prepayment may be made without the
assessment of interest; and
      (12)   Statement of the rate of interest to be accrued if the assessment
is not prepaid within the required time.
   (D)   Hearing, findings and decision.
      (1)   The hearing shall be held before the Council at a regular or
special meeting and conducted in the same manner as an administrative appeal.
All persons desiring to be heard shall be afforded an opportunity to present
evidence.
      (2)   The Council shall decide whether or not the item or items
constitute a nuisance in violation of this section and state the estimated
amount of special assessments and direct the drawing and serving of a
resolution with the findings of fact and decision by certified mail on all
addressees.
      (3)   Estimated value, if any, of all offensive items described in
division (D)(2) above, shall be included in the evidence and in the findings.
VALUE , for the purpose of this section, means the amount of money, in cash,
which can be obtained in a negotiated sale on a known and ready market in the
city.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07; Ord. 1140.12, passed 8-6-12)
§ 93.05 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If abatement of the items described herein is not completed by the date
stated in the resolution of Council, the city may enter upon the premises,
remove the offending item or items, and clean up the nuisance.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07; Ord. 1140.12, passed 8-6-12)
§ 93.06 DISPOSAL OF ITEMS BY CITY AND ALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS.
   (A)   If the city abates the nuisance it shall dispose of the items as
follows:
      (1)   Any item or items of value shall be sold locally in a negotiated
sale.
      (2)   Items of no value shall be disposed of in a landfill or other site
acceptable to governmental regulatory authority.
   (B)   Allocation of proceeds and assessment. If the city abates the nuisance
all costs thereof, including, but not limited to, cost of sale, if any, shall
be aggregated, sale proceeds deducted, and the remainder either certified as a
special assessment and/or collected through a collection action.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07; Ord. 1140.12, passed 8-6-12)
§ 93.07 FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE ON BUSINESS PREMISES.
   If the hazardous condition(s)/nuisance(s) described in this section is not
abated within the time limited, all present licenses issued by the city to
carry on the business on such premises shall be revoked, and no future license
shall be issued therefor until full abatement has been completed.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07; Ord. 1140.12, passed 8-6-12)
§ 93.08 IMMEDIATE ABATEMENT.
   Nothing in this section shall prevent the city, without notice or process,
from immediately abating any condition which poses an imminent and serious
hazard to human life or safety.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07; Ord. 1140.12, passed 8-6-12)
§ 93.09 RECOVERY OF COST.
   Personal liability.  The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official designated
by the City Council shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner.
Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07; Ord. 1140.12, passed 8-6-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.10 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The City Engineer, Street Superintendent, Police Department, or other
designated official shall enforce the provisions of this chapter relating to
nuisances affecting public safety. The Police Department shall enforce
provisions relating to other nuisances and shall assist the other designated
officers in the enforcement of provisions relating to nuisances affecting
public safety. Such officers shall have the power to inspect private premises
and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance
of public nuisances.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07)
§ 93.11 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse, or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Garbage and rubbish in residential and multiple dwelling districts; garbage
cans, see §
51.02
   Use of municipal sewers required; privies, see §
52.15
   Diseased animals, see § 90.02
   Burial of dead animals, see § 90.03
   Weeds and grasses as nuisances, and abatement of such, see §§
92.43 and
92.44, inter alia
§ 93.12 MAINTENANCE OF WOODLAND, TURFGRASSES, NOXIOUS WEEDS, AND VEGETATIONS ON
PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the primary responsibility of any owner or occupant of
any lot or parcel of land to maintain the property in such a manner so as not
to constitute or create a public nuisance or degrade the value of the
neighborhood.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Those plants designated as such by M.S. § 18.77,
subd. 8 or as amended.
      (2)   PROPERTY. All lots or parcels within the city.
      (3)   REGULARLY CUT. Mowing or otherwise cutting vegetation so it does
not exceed 12 inches in height.
      (4)   TURFGRASSES. An area of land, which is occupied by a minimum of 90%
of turfgrasses. TURFGRASSES are commercially available cultured turfgrass
varieties including blue grass, fescue, rye grass blends, commonly used in
regularly cut lawn areas.
      (5)   VEGETATION. Any non-woody plant.
      (6)   WOODLAND. An area of coniferous or deciduous trees interspersed
with shrubs, grasses, broad-leaf plants, and other vegetation, excluding
noxious weeds, which are native or adaptive to the state of Minnesota.
   (C)   Lawn maintenance. All disturbed or occupied areas, which are not
covered by buildings, storage, landscape beds or other physical improvements,
shall be covered by maintainable turfgrasses.
      (1)   Prior to establishment of the turfgrass the lot shall be brought to
grade by the installation of no less than three inches of topsoil. Topsoil
shall be black dirt with no more than 35% sand. It is the duty of all property
owners to establish a lawn within eight months of issuance of the certificate
of occupancy or 12 months of issuance of building permit, whichever is earlier.
Turfgrasses which are drought resistant, such as fescue varieties, are
preferred. The property owner shall be responsible for supplemental watering of
all areas established with turfgrass to ensure sufficient establishment and
root development. All areas shall have sufficient ground cover as to prevent
erosion. At the discretion of the city a shorter time period may be imposed.
      (2)   Prior to issuance of a building permit for a single and two family
residential structure, the builder shall provide an escrow of $2,000 per lot to
the city to be held in escrow until the sod is completed for the entire lot or
seeding has taken and substantial growth has occurred to prevent erosion. Once
substantial growth or sod has been established $1,900 shall be returned to the
builder.
   (D)   Native grasses or gardens. No more than 50% of all disturbed areas may
be restored to native grasses or wildflowers indigenous to the state of
Minnesota, which are planted and maintained on any property, as part of a
garden, or landscape treatment. A minimum width of three feet of turfgrass
shall be established and maintained along the edge of the property and abutting
both sidewalk and roadway if native grasses are to be used.
   (E)   Woodland preserve or restoration. No more than 50% of areas within the
lot can be devoted to woodlands. Property owners must trim and maintain the
woodland areas such that public ways are kept clear for passage.
   (F)   Turfgrass maintenance.
      (1)   All property within the city shall have turfgrass maintained
through regularly cutting to prevent grass vegetation from exceeding 12 inches.
      (2)   On vacant property where mowing of grass is physically difficult
because of topography or other physical constraints the height requirement as
in division (F)(1) shall only apply to a six foot strip of land abutting
roadways or developed properties.
      (3)   Division (F)(1) above shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   Highway ditches.
         (b)   Railroad track ditches.
         (c)   Agricultural areas.
         (d)   Designated wetlands areas (based on DNR standards).
         (e)   Large tracts of undeveloped land.
         (f)   Residential subdivisions that are less than 50% developed except
where lots about developed and improved property. In this instance division (F)
(2) above shall apply.
         (g)   Designated areas in city parks.
         (h)    Up to a 50-foot buffer surrounding drainage ponds, water
quality ponds, streams, lakes and floodplain areas.
         (i)   Woodlands.
   (G)   Trimming plants at intersections. The owner or occupant of any
property lying and abutting any intersection of two streets, and having shrubs
or bushes on such property, shall trim or cause to be trimmed bushes or
shrubbery so that they shall not exceed three feet in height. The area included
in this restriction is defined by a triangle, created 20 feet back from the
intersection of property lines on both sides.
   (H)   Public nuisances. The following shall constitute a public nuisance and
shall be immediately abated by the property owner:
      (1)   Noxious weeds.
      (2)   Vegetation in violation of division (E) above.
      (3)   All insect infested or diseased trees.
      (4)   Accumulation of materials which would harbor rodents.
      (5)   Accumulations of trash, rubbish, cans or other debris.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07)
§ 93.13 DEMOLITION WASTE AND TIRE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intention of the Council to prohibit the disposal
of any demolition waste and tires within the city for the purpose of promoting
the public health, safety, welfare, and aesthetics of the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   AUTHORIZED DISPOSAL SITES. Any disposal site which is licensed by
the state of Minnesota to receive demolition waste.
      (2)   CLEAN FILL. Clean sand, gravel, earth, rocks, sod, and boulders.
      (3)   DEMOLITION WASTE. Metal, concrete, glass, wood, asphalt,
insulation, brick, mortar, wire, conduit, pipes, plumbing and lighting
fixtures, other fixtures, any combustible and noncombustible waste, and any
other materials normally handled in construction operations, and shall also
include any substance which is defined by state statute law or regulation to be
hazardous waste. This definition shall not include clean fill, as defined
herein.
   (C)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful for any person to dispose of
demolition waste and discarded tires within the city.
   (D)   Enforcement. The City Administrator or City Clerk and any duly
authorized count, or state health officers, any city enforcement officer, and
any other duly authorized city, county, or state officer, may enforce the
provisions of this section. Such officers shall have the power to inspect
public and private premises and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the
commission and maintenance of prohibited waste disposal.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.14 OBSTRUCTIONS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Obstructions. It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit, display
or offer for sale, any fence, goods or other obstructions upon, over, across or
under any public property without first having obtained a written permit from
the Council, and then only in compliance in all respects with the terms and
conditions of such permit, and taking precautionary measures for the protection
of the public. An electrical cord or device of any kind is hereby included, but
not by way of limitation, within the definition of an obstruction.
   (B)   Fires. It is unlawful for any person to build or maintain a fire upon
public property, except within public parks where such fire is at all times
contained in a fire ring, grate, grill or other receptacle permanently affixed
to the ground and designed to contain fire. Fires will be allowed upon areas of
public property not within a public park only upon prior written permission of
the city.
   (C)   Dumping on public property. It is unlawful for any person to throw or
deposit on public property any nails, dirt, glass or glassware, cans, discarded
cloth or clothing, metal scraps, garbage, leaves, grass or tree limbs, paper or
paper products, shreds or rubbish, oil, grease or other petroleum products, or
to empty any water containing any salt or other injurious chemicals thereon. It
is a violation of this section to place or store any building materials or
waste resulting from building construction or demolition on public property
without first having obtained a written permit from the Council.
   (D)    Snow or ice on public property. It is unlawful for any person not
acting under a contract with the city to dump snow or ice on public property.
   (E)   Continuing violation. Each day that any person continues in violation
of this section shall be a separate offense and punishable as such.
   (F)   Condition. Before granting any permit under any of the provisions of
this section, the Council may impose such insurance or bonding conditions
thereon as it, considering the projected danger to public or private property
or to persons, deems proper for safeguarding such persons and property. Such
insurance or bond shall also protect the city from any suit, action or cause of
action arising by reason of such obstruction.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.15 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines, and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state, or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in such occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining such a place;
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Ch. 110
   Gambling, see
Ch. 111
§ 93.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 12 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All unnecessary noises and annoying vibrations;
   (E)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds except under such conditions as
are permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (F)   Radio aerials or television antennas erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (G)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (H)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, or so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not
constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (I)   The allowing of rain water, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (J)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (K)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (L)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (M)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies, or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health, or safety
hazards from such accumulation;
   (N)   Any well, hole, or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
such other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person
coming on the premises where it is located;
   (O)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (P)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over such
substance;
   (Q)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (R)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks; obstructions, see §
92.03
   Streets and sidewalks; awnings, see §
92.07
   Streets and sidewalks; excavations; regulations for public safety, see §
92.25
   Snow and rubbish as nuisances, and abatement of such, see §§
92.41 and
92.42, inter alia
   Accumulation of junk, see §
93.08
   Zoning regulations; height limitations for traffic visibility, see §
154.019
§ 93.17 FUEL STORAGE; ACCUMULATION OF JUNK.
   Wood or other fuel stored on any lot or piece of land within the city limits
shall be kept at the back part of such lot or piece of land and piled neatly.
No person shall store or keep any equipment, materials, or junk on his or her
premises or in his or her possession or control in such a manner that it is
unsightly or creates a public nuisance.
(‘75 Code, § 20.210) (Am. Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES CAUSED BY SOUND.
   (A)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made any
distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures
or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or welfare of a
reasonable person or reasonable persons, or precludes their enjoyment of
property, or adversely affects their property’s value. This general prohibition
is not limited by the specific prohibitions contained in the following section.
   (B)   Unlawful acts.  The following acts are hereby declared to be loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noises and are public nuisances in violation of this
chapter but said enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn, whistle, siren or signaling device except
as a danger warning;
      (2)   The play, use or operation of any radio, stereo, tape player, disc
player, musical instrument, phonograph, loud speaker, sound amplifier or any
other machine or device used for the production or amplification of sound in
such a manner as to be audible at a distance of 50 feet from said machine or
device;
      (3)   The operation of any noise-creating vehicle, machinery or equipment
powered by an electric or internal combustion engine unless such engine is
equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noise;
      (4)   The operation of any other vehicle in such manner as to create
through the use of any mechanical component of said vehicle, noise which is
audible at a distance of 50 feet from said vehicle. This section shall include
the use of “jake brakes” by motor vehicles unless such use is required as a
result of an emergency situation;
      (5)   Excavation activities or erection, demolition, alteration or repair
of any structure in such a manner as to create noise which is audible at a
distance of 50 feet from the site thereof between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m.
   (C)   Permitted acts. This section shall not apply to sound produced by the
following:
      (1)   Amplifying equipment used in connection with an activity sponsored
by Benson Public Schools or by the city or for which a permit has been granted
by the city provided that such use is consistent with the provisions of such
permit;
      (2)   Anti-theft devices and security alarms;
      (3)   Machines or devices for the production of sound or in authorized
emergency vehicles;
      (4)   Horns, sirens, whistles or other signaling devices when used as a
danger warning;
      (5)   Excavation, construction, demolition, alteration or repair
activities when authorized by the City Building Inspector in an emergency
situation or when required to protect health and/or safety;
      (6)   Snow removal operations on commercial property or public rights-of-
way;
      (7)   Church bells, chimes, carillons or school bells.
   (D)   Scope of applicability. The terms of this section shall apply to any
loud, disturbing or unnecessary sound whether produced on public or private
property and whether indoors or outdoors or in a motor vehicle.
   (E)   Responsible person for violations involving motor vehicles. When sound
violating this section is produced by a machine or device that is located in or
on a motor vehicle, the vehicle’s owner shall be guilty of the violation of
this section unless the owner is not present, in which case, the person in
charge of the vehicle at the time of the violation shall be guilty of the
violation of this section.
   (F)   Non-exclusivity. This section is supplemental to and does not
supersede any other provision of this city code or state law.
(Ord. 1106.01, passed 6-11-01; Am. Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07; Ord. 1143.14,
passed 5-19-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.19 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, division, or provision of this chapter when
he/she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or fails to act
when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or performs an
act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act when such failure is
prohibited or declared unlawful by a code adopted by reference by this chapter,
and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Ord. 1124.07, passed 7-9-07) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: TREES
Section
Dutch Elm Disease
   
94.01   City Forester; duties
   
94.02   Dutch Elm Disease Program
   
94.03   Nuisances declared
   
94.04   Abatement required
   
94.05   Inspections by City Forester; right of entry
   
94.06   Diagnosis
   
94.07   Abatement procedure
   
94.08   Abatement methods
   
94.09   Abatement costs; records and reports
   
94.10   Unpaid charges; assessment
   
94.11   Preventative spraying; notice
   
94.12   Transportation of elm wood; permits
   
94.13   Prohibited interference with City Forester
Cross-reference:
   
Current services; tree care and the like, see § 92.40 et seq.
   
Subdivisions; street trees, see § 153.47
DUTCH ELM DISEASE
§ 94.01 CITY FORESTER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The powers and duties of the City Forester as set forth in section
subsection (B) shall be conferred upon a designated city official or such other
person as the City Council may determine to be qualified by training and
experience.
('75 Code, § 10.201)
   (B)   It is the duty of the Forester to coordinate, under the direction and
control of the Council, all activities of the municipality relating to the
control and prevention of Dutch elm disease. He or she shall recommend to the
Council the details of a program for the control of Dutch elm disease, and
perform the duties incident to such a program adopted by the Council.
('75 Code, § 10.202)
Cross-reference:
   
City Forester, see § 31.24
§ 94.02 DUTCH ELM DISEASE PROGRAM.
   It is the intention of the Council to conduct a program of plant pest
control pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 18.023, as amended. This
program is directed specifically at the control and elimination of Dutch elm
disease fungus and elm bark beetles and is undertaken at the recommendation of
the State Commissioner of Agriculture. The City Forester shall act as a
coordinator between the Commissioner of Agriculture and the Council in the
conduct of this program.
('75 Code, § 10.203)
§ 94.03 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   The following things are public nuisances whenever they may be found within
the city:
   (A)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any degree
with the Dutch elm disease fungus Ceratocstis Ulmi (Busman) Moreau, or which
harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hyluigopinus Rooftops (Marsh);
   (B)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including legs, branches, stumps,
firewood, or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide.
('75 Code, § 10.204)
Cross-reference:
   
Nuisances, see Ch. 93
§ 94.04 ABATEMENT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit any public nuisance as defined in §
94.03 to remain on any premises owned or controlled by him or her within the
city. Such nuisances may be abated in the manner prescribed by this code.
('75 Code, § 10.205)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.05 INSPECTIONS BY CITY FORESTER; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Forester shall inspect all premises and places within the city as
often as practicable to determine whether any condition described in §
94.03 exists thereon. He or she shall investigate all reported incidents of
infestation by Dutch elm fungus or elm bark beetles.
('75 Code, § 10.206)
   (B)   The Forester or his or her duly authorized agents may enter upon
private premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of carrying out any of
the duties assigned him or her under this subchapter.
('75 Code, § 10.207)
§ 94.06 DIAGNOSIS.
   The Forester shall, upon finding conditions indicating Dutch elm
infestation, immediately send appropriate specimens or samples to the State
Commissioner of Agriculture for analysis, or take such other steps provided in
§
94.07. No action to remove infected trees or wood shall be taken until positive
diagnosis of the disease has been made.
('75 Code, § 10.208)
§ 94.07 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever the Forester finds with reasonable certainty that the
infestation defined in §
94.03 exists in any tree or wood in any public or private place in the city, he
or she shall proceed as follows:
      (1)   If the Forester finds that the danger of infestation of other elm
trees is not imminent because of elm dormancy, the Forester shall make a
written report of his or her finding to the Council which shall proceed by
abating the nuisance as a public improvement under M.S. Ch. 429 or abating the
nuisance as provided in subsection (B).
      (2)   If the Forester finds that danger of infestation of other elm trees
is imminent, he or she shall notify the abutting property owner by certified
mail that the nuisance will be abated within a specified time, not less than 5
days from the date of mailing of such notice. The Forester shall immediately
report such action to the Council, and after the expiration of the time limited
by the notice he or she may abate the nuisance.
('75 Code, § 10.210)
   (B)   Upon receipt of the Forester's report, the Council shall by resolution
order the nuisance abated. Before action is taken on such resolution, the
Council shall publish notice of its intention to meet to consider taking action
to abate the nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to affected property owners
and published once no less than one week prior to such meeting. The notice
shall state the time and place of the meeting, the streets affected, the action
proposed, the estimated cost of the abatement, and the proposed bases of
assessment, if any, of costs. At such hearing or adjournment thereof, the
Council shall hear property owners with reference to the scope and desirability
of the proposed project. The Council shall thereafter adopt a resolution
confirming the original resolution with such modifications as it considers
desirable and provide for the doing of work by day labor or by contract.
('75 Code, § 10.211)
§ 94.08 ABATEMENT METHODS.
   In abating the nuisances defined in §
94.03, the Forester shall cause the infected tree or wood to be sprayed,
removed, burned, or otherwise effectively treated so as to destroy and prevent
as fully as possible the spread of Dutch elm disease fungus and elm bark
beetles. Such abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance with
current technical and expert opinions and plans as may be designated by the
State Commissioner of Agriculture.
('75 Code, § 10.209)
§ 94.09 ABATEMENT COSTS; RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Forester shall keep a record of the costs of abatements done under this
section and shall report monthly to the City Manager all work done for which
assessments are to be made stating and certifying the description of the land,
lots, and parcels involved and the amount chargeable to each.
('75 Code, § 10.212)
§ 94.10 UNPAID CHARGES; ASSESSMENT.
   On or before October 1 of each year the City Manager shall list the total
unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate lot or parcel to which
they are attributable under this subchapter. The Council may then spread the
charges or any portion thereof against the property involved as a special
assessment under M.S. § 429.101 and other pertinent statutes for certification
to the County Auditor and collection the following year along with current
taxes.
('75 Code, § 10.213)
§ 94.11 PREVENTATIVE SPRAYING; NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Forester determines that any elm tree or elm wood within
the city is infected with Dutch elm fungus, he or she may spray all nearby high
value elm trees with an effective elm bark beetle destroying concentrate.
Spraying activities authorized by this section shall be conducted in accordance
with technical and expert opinions and plans of the State Commissioner of
Agriculture and under the supervision of the Commissioner and his or her agents
whenever possible.
('75 Code, § 10.214)
   (B)   The notice provisions of §
94.07(A) apply to spraying operations conducted under this section.
('75 Code, § 10.215)
§ 94.12 TRANSPORTATION OF ELM WOOD; PERMITS.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport within the city any bark-bearing
elm wood without having obtained a permit from the Forester. The Forester shall
grant such permits only when the purposes of this code will be served thereby.
('75 Code, § 10.216)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.13 PROHIBITED INTERFERENCE WITH CITY FORESTER.
   Any person preventing, delaying, or interfering with the Forester or his or
her agents while they are engaged in the performance of duties imposed by this
subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
('75 Code, § 10.217)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 95: ABANDONED AND OTHER NUISANCE VEHICLES
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Applicability of provisions
   
95.03   Notice letter
   
95.04   Citation
   
95.05   Abandoned and/or junk vehicles prohibited
   
95.06   Nuisance declared
   
95.07   Abatement
   
95.08   Impoundment notice and procedure
   
95.09   Reclamation; rights of lienholders preserved
   
95.10   Disposition of unclaimed vehicles; proceeds of sale; title
Cross-reference:
   Unclaimed property, see §
33.30 et seq.
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that:
      (1)   Has remained illegally for a period of more than 48 hours on any
property owned or controlled by a unit of government, or more than four hours
on that property when it is properly posted;
      (2)   Has remained illegally on private property for more than 24 hours
without the consent of the person in control of the property; or
      (3)   Lacks vital component parts or is in an inoperable condition such
that it has no substantial potential for further use consistent with its usual
functions, unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is apparently inoperable and exhibits one
or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   The vehicle is three years old or older;
      (2)   The vehicle is extensively damaged, with the damage including such
things as broken or missing wheels, motor, drive train, or transmission;
      (3)   The vehicle does not have a valid, current registration plate;
      (4)   The vehicle has an approximate fair market value equal only to the
approximate value of the scrap in it.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property that is not public property as defined in
this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property under the control of any unit of government or
agency thereof including that portion of the right-of-way of any street lying
between the traveled portion thereof and the adjacent property line.
   STREET. Any public street, avenue, highway, alley, or other roadway located
within the limits of the city.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Any part of a motor vehicle which is necessary for
the legal operation of such motor vehicle upon a street, including but not
limited to the motor, drive train, wheels, lights, windshield, and current
vehicle license.
('75 Code, § 7.165(2)) (Ord. 1052.84, passed 12-20-84; Ord. 1100.97, eff. 8-20-
97; Ord. 1138.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 95.02 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any person or corporation,
including those whose principal business is that of selling, trading, or
repairing motor vehicles, and where motor vehicles are held, stored, or parked
upon the premises in the normal course of his or her business operation.
('75 Code, § 7.165(8)) (Ord. 1052.84, passed 12-20-84; Ord. 1100.97, eff. 8-20-
97; Ord. 1138.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 95.03 NOTICE LETTER.
   (A)   For abandoned vehicles or junk vehicles on private property with the
consent of the property owner, the city shall give notice of the violation to
the owner of the property. This notice shall be in the form of a letter either
hand delivered or sent via certified mail. This notice shall state the nature
of the violation, the steps needed to remedy the violation, and the date by
which the violation must be remedied.
   (B)   For abandoned vehicles or junk vehicles on public property or on
private property without the consent of the property owner, the city may issue
a citation as described in §
95.04 without giving notice. This citation shall be issued to the registered
owner of the vehicle by mail, or may be attached to the motor vehicle, as
described in §
95.04(B).
(Ord. 1138.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 95.04 CITATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who does any of the following may be
issued a state citation by the Benson Police Department:
      (1)   Abandons a motor vehicle on any public or private property without
consent of the person in control of such property; or
      (2)   Allows an abandoned motor vehicle or junk motor vehicle to remain
on private property for a period of more than 14 days after receiving notice
from the city as described in §
95.03.
   (B)   The citation must be issued in person or by mail to the person
responsible for the violation or attached to the motor vehicle. The citation
must state the date, time and nature of the offense, the name of the peace
officer issuing the citation, the amount of the penalty, the manner for paying
the penalty, and that the violator has the right to contest the citation. The
amount of the penalty for the first citation shall be set by the City Council's
uniform fee resolution.
   (C)   If, after receiving the first citation, the vehicle has not been moved
within 14 days, a second citation may be issued, and the city may impound the
vehicle pursuant to §
95.08.
(Ord. 1138.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 95.05 ABANDONED AND/OR JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any person who fails to remove an abandoned motor vehicle or junk
motor vehicle within 14 days of receipt of the notice given pursuant to §
95.03 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who fails to remove an abandoned motor vehicle or junk
motor vehicle within 14 days of receipt of the first citation issued pursuant
to §
95.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
('75 Code, § 7.165(9)) (Ord. 1052.84, passed 12-20-84; Ord. 1100.97, eff. 8-20-
97; Ord. 1138.12, passed 6-25-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   Abandoned motor vehicles and junk motor vehicles are hereby declared
to be public nuisances because they constitute a hazard to the health and
welfare of the people of the city in that such vehicles can harbor noxious
diseases, furnish shelter and breeding places for vermin, present physical
dangers to the safety and well-being of children and other citizens, and
constitute a blight on the landscape of the city and therefore a detriment to
the environment, and may be abated as provided herein or as provided under any
other ordinance of the city or the statutes of the state.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle that is found impeding firefighting, street
sweeping, snow removal or plowing, or the orderly flow of traffic is declared
to be a public nuisance and may be abated as provided herein or as provided
under any other ordinance of the city or the statutes of the state.
('75 Code, § 7.165(1)) (Ord, 1052.84, passed 12-20-84; Am. Ord. 1100.97, eff.
8-20-97; Ord. 1138.12, passed 6-25-12)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 93
§ 95.07 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle or abandoned motor vehicle which constitutes a
public nuisance, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, other duly
appointed official of the city, or any police officer of the city, may be
removed, impounded, and sold or otherwise disposed of in the manner provided
herein.
   (B)   Any vehicle determined to constitute a public nuisance shall be
transported to a facility designated by the city for the storage of such
vehicles. Any police officer or other person authorized by the city shall be
empowered to enter upon private property for the purpose of removing and
transporting such vehicle. Any impounded vehicle shall be tagged for
identification which tag shall show the date of and reason for impoundment.
   (C)   The police officer or other authorized person responsible for the
impoundment of a vehicle shall prepare and file in the office of the Police
Department a written report which shall contain the make of the vehicle, the
name and address of the owner of the vehicle, the license number, the date of
license, the motor number, identification of missing vital component parts, a
general description of the condition of the vehicle, identification of any
personal property located in the vehicle, and such other information as may be
necessary to adequately describe the vehicle.
('75 Code, § 7.165(3)) (Ord. 1052.84, passed 12-20-84; Am. Ord. 1100.97, eff.
8-20-97; Ord. 1138.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 95.08 IMPOUNDMENT NOTICE AND PROCEDURE.
   For impounded vehicles, the city shall give notice of the impoundment of
said vehicle within ten days thereof to the registered owner and lienholders of
record by first class mail sent to the address shown on the vehicle's
registration. The notice shall:
   (A)   Set forth the date and place of the impoundment and the year, make,
model, and serial number of the impounded motor vehicle if such information can
be reasonably obtained, and the place where the vehicle is being held;
   (B)   Inform the owner and any lienholders of their right to reclaim the
vehicle under §
95.08 of this chapter; and
   (C)   State that failure of the owner or lienholders to exercise their right
to reclaim the vehicle and contents shall be deemed a waiver by them of all
right, title, and interest in the vehicle and contents and a consent to the
sale of the vehicle and contents at a public auction pursuant to §
95.09 of this chapter.
('75 Code, § 7.165(5)) (Ord. 1052.84, passed 12-20-84; Am. Ord. 1100.97, eff.
8-20-97; Ord. 1138.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 95.09 RECLAMATION; RIGHTS OF LIENHOLDERS PRESERVED.
   The owner of any lienholder of a motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this
chapter shall have a right to reclaim such vehicle from the city within 15 days
after the date of the notice required by §
95.08 of this chapter upon payment of all towing and storage charges resulting
from the impoundment of said vehicle. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to impair any lien of a garage keeper under the laws of this state or
the right of a lienholder to foreclose. For the purpose of this section, GARAGE
KEEPER is an operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a
storage facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair,
or maintenance of motor vehicles.
('75 Code, § 7.165(6)) (Ord. 1052.84, passed 12-20-84; Am. Ord. 1100.97, eff.
8-20-97; Ord. 1138.12, passed 6-25-12)
§ 95.10 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES; PROCEEDS OF SALE; TITLE.
   (A)   A motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter and not reclaimed
under §
95.08 shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public auction or sale following
reasonable published notice thereof. The purchaser shall be given a receipt
which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the vehicle. The receipt shall
also entitle the purchaser to register the vehicle and receive a certificate of
title free and clear of all liens and claims of ownership.
   (B)   From the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle, the city shall reimburse
itself for the cost of towing, preserving, and storing the vehicle and all
administrative, notice, and publication costs incurred in handling the vehicle
pursuant to this chapter. Any remainder from the proceeds of the sale shall be
held for the owner of the vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days and then
shall be deposited in the General Fund of the City Treasury.
('75 Code, § 7.165(7)) (Ord. 1052.84, passed 12-20-84; Am. Ord. 1100.97, eff.
8-20-97; Ord. 1138.12, passed 6-25-12)
CHAPTER 96: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
96.01   Fuel oil tanks
   
96.02   Open burning
Cross-reference:
   
Motor vehicles impeding fire fighting as nuisances, see § 95.04
§ 96.01 FUEL OIL TANKS.
   (A)   Installation of tanks. No person shall connect, alter, or use any fuel
oil tank in any building or structure in the city unless the tanks shall be
equipped with proper overflow pipes, outlets, and vents such as shall conform
to the Safety Code of the Fire Underwriters Laboratories.
('75 Code, § 11.401)
   (B)   Filling of tanks. No person shall fill any tank in any building not
equipped as specified in subsection (A).
('75 Code, § 11.402)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.02 OPEN BURNING .
   (A)   Open burning prohibited. Except as otherwise permitted by this
section, all open burning is prohibited within the geographical or fire limits
of the city.
   (B)   Recreational fires and mobile cooking devices. Recreational fires and
mobile cooking devices are permitted in the city except as otherwise set forth
herein.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MOBILE COOKING DEVICES. Devices such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal
grills, wood smokers and propane gas devices and are not defined as
recreational fires.
      OPEN BURNING. A fire burning in matter, whether concentrated or
dispersed, which is not contained within a fully enclosed firebox or structure
from which the products of combustion are emitted directly to the open
atmosphere without passing through a stack, screen, duct or chimney.
      RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuels no more than
three feet in height, contained within a pit, portable fire pits, and portable
fireplaces passing through a stack, screen,  duct or chimney. The use of a unit
under an overhang is prohibited. A portable outdoor fireplace or fire pit must
be located a safe distance from any structure. No portable outdoor fireplace or
fire pit may be located on or beneath any balcony, stairway or similar outdoor
projection. Only dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or
soot; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for recreational,
ceremonial, food preparation or social purposes; extinguished completely before
quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions, neighbors, burning
bans, and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety hazards will not be
created. If a county-wide fire ban is announced, no recreational fires are
permitted.
      STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted wood and kindling.
      WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such twigs, branches, limbs, "presto logs",
charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. WOOD does not include wood
that is green, leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked or treated with
paint, glue or preservatives.
   (D)   Recreational burning. Recreational fires are permitted under the
following conditions:
      (1)   Burning shall occur between 9:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight during any
day of the week.
      (2)   The fire shall not exceed three feet in diameter and a flame height
of approximately three feet and shall be contained in a pit, portable fire
pits, and portable fireplaces passing through a stack, screen, duct or chimney.
      (3)   Only natural firewood less than two feet in length may be burned.
No burning of trash, leaves or brush is allowed.
      (4)   The use of flammable or combustible liquids is not permitted.
      (5)   The fire is constantly attended by a person knowledgeable in the
use of fire-extinguishing equipment and that person supervises the fire until
the fire has been totally extinguished.
      (6)   Fire-extinguishing equipment such as a fire extinguisher, buckets,
shovels, or garden hoses, are readily available.
      (7)   Recreational fires must be conducted at a safe distance from any
structure.
      (8)   Recreational fires are not permitted on commercial or industrial
sites with construction activity.
        (9)   Police officers, fire officials or building official are
authorized to require that a recreational fire be immediately extinguished if
it is determined that the fire is not in compliance with the above rules, the
smoke is offensive to neighbors or the burning is determined to constitute a
hazardous condition.
(Ord. 1120.06, passed 6-12-06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 97: DANGEROUS OR SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS
Section
   
97.01   Policy
   
97.02   Findings
   
97.03   Dangerous or substandard buildings declared a nuisance
   
97.04   Conditions rendering building dangerous or substandard
   
97.05   Securing vacant buildings
   
97.06   Inspections and orders; appeals
   
97.07   Council to call hearing
   
97.08   Notice of hearing
   
97.09   Service of notice
   
97.10   Hearing
   
97.11   Order to repair, vacate and repair, remove or demolish
   
97.12   Order to be served
   
97.13   Standards for repair, vacation and repair, removal or demolition
   
97.14   Penalty for disregarding, defacing or destroying order; Council may
order work
§ 97.01 POLICY.
   Pursuant to authority provided in M.S. § 463.26, permitting cities to enact
and enforce ordinances on hazardous buildings, and in order to enhance the
livability and preserve the tax base and property values of buildings within
the city, and based upon the findings contained in §
97.02; and because of the need to assure that buildings which are capable of
rehabilitation are promptly rehabilitated and buildings which are not capable
of rehabilitation be promptly demolished, the city hereby declared that it is
the policy of the city to promote rehabilitation of vacant and unoccupied
buildings, and to assure a prompt process for demolition of hazardous buildings
through a procedure fixing appropriate responsibility in accordance with due
process requirements.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
§ 97.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds, determines and declares that buildings which remain
vacant and unoccupied for any appreciable period of time become an attractive
nuisance to children, a harborage for rodents, and invitation to derelicts,
vagrants and criminals as a temporary abode, and an increased fire hazard, and
that the unkept grounds surrounding such property invite the dumping of garbage
and rubbish thereon; that such buildings are permitted to become dilapidated
since such buildings are often economically obsolete and the owners of such
buildings are unwilling to expend the necessary funds to repair or raze the
buildings; that such buildings contribute to the growth of blight within the
city, depress market values of surrounding properties to the detriment of the
various districts and require additional governmental services; that the use
and maintenance of property in such condition and manner endangers the public
safety and health, constitutes an unreasonable use and condition to the
annoyance, discomfort and repose of a considerable number of the public, is
detrimental to the public good and to the common welfare; and renders a
considerable number of the public insecure in the use and enjoyment of their
property, and thus may constitute a nuisance condition. Adequate protection of
public health, safety and welfare, therefore, requires the establishment and
enforcement of the means by which such nuisance conditions may be abated.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
§ 97.03 DANGEROUS OR SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   Any structure or building, or portion of a structure or building, in which
there exists any of the conditions listed in §
97.02 is a dangerous or substandard building, and is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
§ 97.04 CONDITIONS RENDERING BUILDING DANGEROUS OR SUBSTANDARD.
   (A)   Structural hazards.
      (1)   Any stress in any material, element, member or portion thereof, due
to all dead and live loads, which is greater than the working stresses deemed
reasonable and safe by the Building Official.
      (2)   Damage to any portion of a building by earthquake, wind, fire,
flood, or by any other cause, in such a manner that the structural ability or
strength thereof is appreciably less than the minimum requirements set forth in
existing codes for a new building or structure of similar size, construction,
location and purpose.
      (3)   Likelihood of any portion or member or appurtenance of a building
to fall, or become dislodged or detached, or to collapse, and thereby cause
bodily injury or property damage.
      (4)   Settling of any building or portion thereof to such an extent that
walls or other structural portions have been displaced or distorted and
rendered structurally unstable or dangerous, or that the basic function of such
element has been impaired.
      (5)   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, or because of the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of
supporting such building or structure or portion thereof, or other cause, is
likely to partially or completely collapse, or some portion of the foundation
or underpinning is likely to fall or give way.
      (6)   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, is for any
reason whatsoever manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used or
intended to be used.
      (7)   The exterior walls or other vertical structural members list, lean,
or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center of
gravity of that wall or structural member does not fall inside the middle third
of the base.
      (8)   The building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows 33%
or more of damage or deterioration to the member or members, or 50% of damage
or deterioration of a non-supporting enclosing or outside wall covering.
      (9)   The building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated, from any
cause whatsoever, as to become an attractive nuisance to children who might
play therein to their danger, or as to afford a harbor for vagrants, criminals,
or as to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing
nuisances or unlawful acts.
      (10)   Any building or structure which has been constructed or now exists
or is maintained in violation of a specific requirement or prohibition,
applicable to such building or structure, of the building code provisions of
the city or of any law or ordinance of this state or city relating to the
location, use and physical condition of buildings or structures.
      (11)   Any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and this code, because of dilapidation,
deterioration, damage, or other cause is so weakened or defective as to have in
any non-support part, member or portion less than 50%, or in a supporting
member less than 66%, of the strength or fire-resistive qualities or
characteristics or weather-resistive qualities or characteristics required by
law or ordinance in the case of a newly constructed building or structure of
similar size, purpose and location.
   (B)   Hazardous wiring. All wiring except that which conformed with all
applicable laws in effect at the time of installation and which has been
maintained in good condition and is being used in a safe manner.
   (C)   Hazardous plumbing. All plumbing except that which conformed with all
applicable laws in effect at the time of installation and which has been
maintained in operating condition and which is free of cross-connections and
siphonage between fixtures.
   (D)   Hazardous mechanical equipment. All mechanical equipment, including
vents, except that which conforms to all applicable laws in effect at the time
of installation and which has been maintained in safe condition.
   (E)   Faulty weather protection.
      (1) Deteriorated, crumbling or loose plaster.
      (2) Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roof,
foundations, or floors, including broken windows or doors.
      (3) Defective or lack of weather protection for exterior wall coverings,
including lack of paint, or weathering due to lack of paint or other approved
protective covering.
      (4) Broken, rotted, split, or buckled exterior walls or roof coverings.
   (F)   Inadequate fire protection. All buildings which are not provided with
the fire-resistive construction required by the Minnesota State Building Code
except those buildings which conformed to all applicable laws at the time of
their construction and whose fire-resistive integrity has been adequately
maintained or improved.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
§ 97.05 SECURING VACANT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In general, if any building becomes vacant or unoccupied and is deemed
hazardous due to the fact that the building is open to trespass and has not
been secured and the building could be made safe by securing the building, the
city may order the building secured and shall cause notice of the order to be
served upon the owner of the premises. Such notice may be served personally or
by mail. Service by mail is complete upon mailing a copy of the order to the
owner at the last known address. If the owner fails to comply with the order
within six days after the order is served, the Building Official shall cause
the building to be boarded up or otherwise properly secured. Whenever a
building is boarded up pursuant to the authority of this chapter, the Building
Official may cause all openings to the building to be boarded and secured.
   (B)   Emergency. When it is determined by the Building Official or the Chief
of Police, or the Fire Chief that an emergency exists with respect to the
health or safety of persons in the community, and immediate boarding and
securing of a building is required, and where danger will exist to children,
transients or others in the absence of an immediate boarding or securing of the
building, the director of inspections or the chief of police, or the fire chief
may waive all requirements herein and immediately board or otherwise secure the
building, provided that:
      (1)   The conditions showing the existence of an exigency are documented
in writing by the Director of Inspections or the Chief of Police or the Fire
Chief or their designees.
      (2)   Notice is to be mailed immediately by the department invoking this
section to the address of the owner and taxpayer, and, if recorded on the
assessors rolls, the address of the mortgage holder, of the date of boarding or
otherwise securing and the reasons therefore.
   (C)   After a vacant or unoccupied building has been boarded or otherwise
secured under this section, should the owner fail to maintain the building in a
secured condition until such time as it has been repaired and reoccupied, the
director of inspections shall resecure any openings into the building whenever
it again becomes open to trespass, without further notice to the owner. An
administrative fee of $75.00 and all other costs incurred by the city for
boarding or otherwise securing a building under this chapter, including, but
not limited to the actual costs for boarding, inspecting, posting and
monitoring the building, shall be assessed as provided in §
93.04. OWNER, for the purposes of this section, shall mean the person who is
listed as the contact person on the current rental licensing application on
file with the City, if any; or, if none, the person listed as owner by the City
Assessor on the homestead record; or, if none, the taxpayer as shown by the
records of the City Assessor.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
§ 97.06 INSPECTIONS AND ORDERS; APPEALS.
   (A)   Inspection responsibilities of official. Whenever it shall come to the
attention of the Building Official by written complaint of any person or
agency, or otherwise, that a building or structure is a dangerous or
substandard building, the Official shall cause a preliminary examination to be
made of the building or structure and premises. In the execution of the
inspection, the Official shall avail to the services of such other agencies,
employees, departments and officers of the city as the Official deems
necessary. Upon completion of the inspection, if it then appears that the
building or structure is a dangerous or substandard building, the city shall
issue a written order to the owner or occupant requiring repair, removal,
demolition or compliance. If no appeal is filed within ten days of the order,
the order shall be deemed final.
   (B)   Appeal of order. Any person who deems to be aggrieved by any such
order may appeal the order of the city to the City Council by filing a written
appeal with the Clerk within ten days of such order. Such appeal shall fully
state the order appealed from, the date thereof, and the facts of the matter.
Upon such an appeal being filed, the Official also shall make a written report,
supplemented by written reports from the other agencies, employees, departments
and officials called upon by the Official in the execution of the inspection,
and submit the reports to the Council.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
§ 97.07 COUNCIL TO CALL HEARING.
   The Council shall examine the report of the Official, and if there is
probable cause to believe that the building or structure is a dangerous or
substandard building, shall have the matter set for hearing.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
§ 97.08 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The Council shall hear the appeal not later than 30 days after the date the
appeal is filed. Notice of the hearing shall be given in a form prescribed by
the Council. It shall set forth the street address and legal description
sufficient for identification of the premises upon which the building or
structure is located. It shall contain a brief statement of the conditions
mentioned in the report of the Official which show probable cause to believe
that the building or structure is a nuisance within the meaning of this
section. It shall also state the date, hour and place of the hearing and shall
order all interested parties who desire to be heard in the matter to appear
before the Council to show cause why the building or structure should not be
ordered repaired, vacated and repaired, removed, or demolished.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
§ 97.09 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Person to whom notice is served. One copy of the notice shall be
served upon the person, if any, in real or apparent charge and control of the
premises involved; the record owner, the holder of any mortgage, trust, deed or
other lien or encumbrance of record; the owner or holder of any lease of
record; and the record holder of any other estate or interest in or to the
building or structure or and upon which it is located.
   (B)   Posting of notice. One copy of the notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place upon the building or structure or premises involved.
   (C)   Date of serving and posting notice. The notice of hearing shall be
posted and served at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (D)   Notice sent by certified mail. The notice of hearing shall be served
upon all persons entitled thereto either personally or by certified mail.
Service by certified mail shall be effective on the date of mailing if a copy
of such notice is so mailed, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to each
such person at the address of such person as it appears on the last equalized
assessment roll of the County or as known to the Clerk. If no such address so
appears or is known to the Clerk, then a copy of the notice shall be addressed
to such person at the address of the building or structure involved in the
proceedings. The failure of any owner or other person to receive such notice
shall not affect in any manner the validity of any of the proceedings taken.
   (E)   Affidavit of notice served. The officer or employee upon serving the
notice as provided herein shall file an affidavit thereof with the Clerk
certifying to the time and manner in which such notice was served. The officer
or employee shall also file therewith any receipt which may have been returned
to the officer or employee in acknowledgment of the receipt of such notice by
certified mail.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
§ 97.10 HEARING.
   (A)   Hearing and considering evidence. The Council shall, at such hearing,
hear and consider any evidence offered by the person or persons having any
estate or interest in such building or structure pertaining to the matter set
forth in the report of the Official.
   (B)   Conclusion of hearing. After hearing the oral and written views of all
interested persons, the Council shall make its decision at the same meeting or
at a specified future meeting.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
§ 97.11    ORDER TO REPAIR, VACATE AND REPAIR, REMOVE OR DEMOLISH.
   If the Council finds that the building or structure involved is a dangerous
or substandard building within the terms of this section, then it shall issue
an order:
   (A)   That the building or structure must be repaired, or vacated and
repaired, or removed or demolished.
   (B)   That the occupant, lessee, or other person in possession must vacate
the building, or that the occupant, lessee, or other person may remain in
possession while repairs are being made.
   (C)   That any mortgage, beneficiary under deed of trust, or any other
person having an interest or estate in said building may, at their own risk,
repair, vacate and repair, remove or demolish said building or structure
according to existing law and code provisions.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
§ 97.12 ORDER TO BE SERVED.
   Copies of the order to repair, or vacate and repair, or remove or demolish
shall be served upon the individuals and in the manner as prescribed in §
97.09. A copy of the order shall also be posted in a conspicuous place upon the
building or structure as prescribed in said subsection.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
§ 97.13 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION AND REPAIR, REMOVAL OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance and spirit by
ordering the repair, vacation and repair, removal or demolition of any building
or structure. Any order to remove or demolish, rendered pursuant to this
section, shall not indicate an alternative permission to repair; however, an
order to repair may be satisfied by removal or demolition.
   (A)   Repairing building. If the dangerous or substandard building can
reasonably and economically be repaired so that it will no longer exist in
violation of the provisions of this section, it shall be ordered repaired. For
the purposes of this section, the term REPAIR shall include any improvements
necessary to make such building comply with the applicable provisions of this
code.
   (B)   Vacating building. If the dangerous or substandard building is in such
condition as to make it dangerous to the health, moral, safety, or general
welfare of its occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (C)   Damaged buildings. In any case where a dangerous building is 50% or
more damaged, decayed, or deteriorated, it shall be ordered to be removed or
demolished.
   (D)   Unrepairable buildings. In all cases where a dangerous or substandard
building cannot be repaired, with reasonable economy, so that it will no longer
exist in violation of the terms of this section, it shall be ordered to be
vacated and removed or demolished.
   (E)   Fire hazardous buildings. In all cases where a dangerous or
substandard building is a fire hazard, whether existing or erected in violation
of the provisions of this code, or state law, and cannot reasonably and
economically be repaired pursuant to § 470.08, it shall be ordered demolished.
   (F)   Particulars of order. The order shall set forth the street address of
the building or structure and a legal description of the premises sufficient
for identification. It shall contain a statement of the particulars which
render the building or structure a dangerous or substandard building, and a
statement of the things required to be done. The order shall state the time
within which the work required must be commenced, the time being not earlier
than ten days and no later than 30 days after the issuance of the order, and
the order shall further specify a reasonable time within which the work shall
be completed. The time for completion may, by action of the council, be
extended for just causes and such authority for extended time shall be given in
writing by the Council upon written application of any interested party or
parties.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
§ 97.14 PENALTY FOR DISREGARDING, DEFACING OR DESTROYING ORDER; COUNCIL MAY
ORDER WORK.
   (A)   Penalty.
      (1)   The owner or other person having charge and control of the building
or structure cited in the order who shall fail to comply with any order to
repair, or vacate and repair, or remove or demolish said building or structure
shall be subject to the penalties as provided by §
10.99 of the code.
      (2)    The occupant or lessee in possession cited in the order who shall
fail to comply with any order to vacate said building or structure in
accordance with any order given as provided for in this section shall be
subject to the penalties provided by §
10.99 of the code.
   (B)   Defacing or destroying order. Any person who removes or defaces or
destroys a notice or order posted as required in this section shall be subject
to the penalties provided by §
10.99 of the code.
   (C)   Council may order repair or removal. The Council may order the repair
or removal of the building or structure cited in the order and obtain
enforcement of the order and entry of judgment by the district court shall be
in accordance with M.S. §§ 463.15 to 463.26 where such statutory provisions
apply, which statutes are hereby adopted and incorporated into this chapter by
reference and made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 1125.07, passed 9-19-07)
CHAPTER 98: STRUCTURES IN DISREPAIR
Section
   
98.01   Findings
   
98.02   Requirements for structures
   
98.03   Nuisance declared
   
98.04   Abatement
   
98.05   Citation
   
98.06   Notice
§ 98.01 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds that there exist in the city structures used for
human habitation which are now or may become in the future substandard with
respect to structure, equipment or maintenance, and such conditions, together
with inadequate provisions for light and air, insufficient protection against
fire hazards, lack of proper heating, unsanitary conditions and overcrowding,
constitute a danger to the public health, safety and welfare of its citizens.
Additionally, such conditions, factors or characteristics adversely affect
public health and safety and lead to the extension and aggravation of urban
blight. It is in the best interest of the public health, safety and welfare of
the people of the city to establish and enforce minimum standards for such
structures.
(Ord. 1144.15, passed 2-2-15)
§ 98.02 REQUIREMENTS FOR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Maintenance. All structures which are intended to be occupied or let
to another for occupancy, and all dwellings or apartments existing for the
purpose of living therein, whether occupied or vacant, must comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Foundations, exterior walls and surfaces, roofs. Every foundation,
chimney, exterior wall and surface, and roof shall be weathertight, watertight,
rodent-proof and insect proof, and shall be kept in a workmanlike state of
maintenance and repair.
      (1)   The foundation elements shall support the building at all points.
      (2)   Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or rotten
boards or timbers, and any other condition which might admit rodents, rain or
dampness to the interior portions of the walls or to the interior space of the
dwelling.
      (3)   The roof shall be tight and have no defects which admit rain or
other forms of moisture. Roof drainage shall be such that it prevents rainwater
from causing dampness in the walls.
      (4)   All exterior surfaces shall be of a material manufactured and
processed specifically for use in a weather-exposed location, including
roofing, exterior painted wood, masonry, exposed redwood and other naturally
suitable materials. Exterior walls shall be maintained and kept free from
dilapidation, including those conditions caused by extensive cracks, tears or
breaks and by extensively deteriorated plaster, stucco, brick, wood or other
materials or combinations of materials.
      (5)   The exposed surface of exterior walls on a building above ground
level shall be maintained in good repair so as to provide both sufficient
covering and sufficient protection of the surface underneath against its
deterioration. Without limiting the generality of this section, an exposed
surface of a building shall be deemed not to be in a workmanlike state of
maintenance and not to be in good repair if either or both of the following
conditions exist:
         (a)   The painted surface area is blistered, cracked, flaked, scaled
or chalked away, and such condition(s) extends over more than 25% of the
surface area of any plane or wall or other area, including window trim, cornice
members, porch railings and other such areas; or
         (b)   More than 10% of the pointing of any masonry chimney or more
than 25% of the pointing of any masonry wall is loose, has fallen out, or
otherwise does not exist.
      (6)   Any exterior surface or plane required to be repaired under the
provisions of this section shall be repaired in its entirety to make it
weathertight, watertight, and rodent-proof.
   (C)   Windows, exterior doors, basement hatchways. Every window, exterior
door and basement hatchway shall be weather-tight and rodent-proof and shall be
kept in working condition and in a workmanlike state of maintenance and repair.
      (1)   Every window shall be fully supplied with window panes which are
without open cracks or holes.
      (2)   Every window sash shall be in good condition and fit tight within
its frame.
      (3)   Every window other than a fixed window shall be capable of being
easily opened and shall be held in an open position by window hardware.
      (4)   Every exterior door, door hinge and door latch shall be in good
condition.
      (5)   Every exterior door when closed shall fit in a workmanlike
condition within its frame.
      (6)   Every window, door and frame shall be constructed and maintained in
such relation to the adjacent wall construction as completely to exclude rain
and substantially to exclude wind from entering the structure.
      (7)   Every basement hatchway shall be so constructed and maintained as
to prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water into the
dwelling.
      (8)   Every door available as an exit shall be capable of being opened
from the inside, easily and without the use of a key.
      (9)   Every entrance door to an apartment or rooming unit within a
dwelling shall be equipped with a suitable lock in good working condition to
provide security for the occupants.
   (D)   Exterior stairways, exterior porches and decks, landings, and floor
levels. Every inside and outside stairway, every exterior porch and deck,
landing and floor level and every appurtenance attached thereto shall be so
constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting the load that normal
use may cause to be placed thereon and shall be kept in a sound condition and
in a reasonably good state of maintenance and repair.
      (1)   Every flight of stairs and exterior porch and deck, landing and
floor level shall be free of holes, grooves and cracks which are large enough
to constitute a possible accident hazard. The construction, design and headroom
of stairways, exterior porches and decks, landings and floor levels shall
conform to the Minnesota State Building Code.
      (2)   Every stairwell and every flight of stairs which are four or more
risers high shall have hand rails not less than 30 inches nor more than 34
inches above the nosing of treads and every exterior porch and deck, landing,
and floor level which is more than 30 inches above grade shall have hand rails
not less than 36 inches above the platform. The construction and design of
handrail intermediates shall conform to the Minnesota State Building Code.
      (3)   Every rail and balustrade shall be fastened and maintained in a
workmanlike condition. No flight of stairs shall have settled more than one
inch out of its intended position or have pulled away from supporting or
adjacent structures.
      (4)   No flight of stairs shall have rotten or deteriorated supports. The
treads of every flight of stairs shall be uniform in height. Every stair tread
shall be sound and securely fastened in position.
      (5)   Every stair tread shall be strong enough to bear the load required
by the Minnesota State Building Code.
      (6)   Every exterior porch and deck, landing, and floor level shall have
sound floor and supports.
      (7)   All outside stairways, fire escapes and exits shall be maintained
unobstructed, and free of ice and snow. All outside stairways that serve as an
entrance to an upper story apartment or rooming unit shall have a light located
at the head of the stairway capable of lighting the entire stairway. This light
may be controlled by three-way switches, one at the bottom of the stairway, and
one at the top, or it may be a sensor light, activated by motion or dusk.
   (E)   Discontinuance of required services, facilities, equipment or
utilities. No owner or operator shall cause any service, facility, equipment or
utility which is required to be supplied under the provisions of this code to
be removed, shut off, or discontinued in any structure owned, let or occupied
by such person, except for such temporary interruption as may be necessary
while actual repairs, replacements, or alterations are in process of being
made.
   (F)   Responsibility of owner for public areas. Every owner of a structure
containing two or more apartments shall be responsible for maintaining in a
clean and sanitary condition the shared or public areas of the dwellings and
premises thereof.
   (G)   Responsibility for rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a structure
shall dispose of all refuse in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in
garbage disposal facilities or refuse storage containers as prescribed in §
51.02 of this code.
   (H)   Extermination. Every occupant of a single family structure shall be
responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of an apartment in a structure
containing more than one apartment shall be responsible for such extermination
whenever his or her apartment is the only one infested. Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of this division, whenever infestation is caused by
failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a rat-proof or reasonably
insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the apartments in any dwelling,
or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two or more
apartments, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (I)   Non-dwelling structures. Every foundation, exterior wall, roof,
window, exterior door, basement hatchway, and every other entranceway of every
structure, whether intended for occupancy or not, shall be so maintained as to
prevent the structure from becoming a harborage for rodents, vermin and insects
and shall be kept in a reasonably good state of maintenance. In addition, every
non-dwelling structure located on any dwelling premises shall be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of division (B) of this section.
   (J)   Fences. Every fence in such condition as to constitute a public health
or safety hazard shall be repaired or removed.
   (K)   Grading and draining of premises. All premises shall be graded and
maintained so no stagnant water will accumulate or stand on the premises or
within any building or structure located on the premises.
   (L)   (1)   Open areas. OPEN AREA means that part of a lot or property that
is not covered by an enclosed building or structure, regardless of whether the
view from outside the property is shielded by a fence, vegetation or other
structure. The term OPEN AREA includes, but is not limited to, the yard, open
porches, and areas under structures that are not entirely enclosed, such as a
carport.
      (2)   All open areas and parts of premises shall be maintained and kept
in a reasonably clean and neat condition. This requirement shall include the
removal of dead trees and brush, the removal of inoperable machines,
appliances, fixtures and equipment; the removal of lumber piles and building
materials not being used in actual construction on the premises unless such
premises are being used by a business dealing in or requiring the use of such
lumber and materials, and the storage of these materials for business use is
allowed or permitted by ordinance; the removal of tin cans, broken glass,
broken furniture, mattresses, box springs, boxes, crates, cardboard, tires, and
other garbage and debris; and the removal of furniture and other items of the
type not designed or intended to be stored outside or in such a manner that
they are exposed to weather and climatic conditions.
(Ord. 1144.15, passed 2-2-15)
§ 98.03 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Violations a public nuisance. A person or business entity that creates,
maintains or allows to continue a condition in violation of this chapter shall
be deemed to have created a public nuisance as defined in §
93.01 of this code, which is subject to abatement by the city as provided in
this code.
(Ord. 1144.15, passed 2-2-15)
§ 98.04 ABATEMENT.
   Abatement with or without special assessments. Any nuisance created by a
condition in violation of this chapter may be, subject to the discretion of the
City Council, abated with or without special assessments as described in
Chapter 93 of this code.
(Ord. 1144.15, passed 2-2-15)
§ 98.05 CITATION.
   (A)   Violations subject to citation. After the notice required by §
98.06, any person or business entity that allows a nuisance condition in
violation of this chapter to continue past the deadline given in the notice
letter may be issued a citation by the Police Department.
   (B)   Issuance of citation. The citation shall be issued in person or by
mail to the occupant of the property on which the violation exists and to the
owner of the property if not owner-occupied. The citation shall state the date,
time and nature of the offense, the name of the peace officer issuing the
citation, the amount of the penalty, the manner for paying the penalty, and
that the violator has the right to contest the citation.
   (C)   Continued violation. Each day that a violation continues, or is
permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense in prosecution of
such unlawful act.
(Ord. 1144.15, passed 2-2-15)
§ 98.06 NOTICE.
   Written notice required. Prior to the issuance of a citation as described in
§
98.05, notice of the violation shall be given to the occupant of the property
on which the violation exists, as well as the owner of the property if not
owner-occupied. This notice shall be in the form of a letter either hand
delivered or sent via certified mail to the address shown on the real estate
tax certificate. This notice shall state the nature of the violation, the steps
needed to remedy the violation, and the date by which the violation must be
remedied. This date shall be determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 1144.15, passed 2-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 99: RESIDENCY OF CONVICTED SEX OFFENDERS
Section
   
99.01   Findings
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Prohibited locations of residence
   
99.04   Measurement of distance
   
99.05   Exceptions
   
99.06   Property owners prohibited from renting property to predatory offenders
in any exclusion zone
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds that repeat predatory offenders present a threat to
public safety due to the risk of physical violence or repeat offense against
the citizens of Benson.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-21-17)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   DESIGNATED PREDATORY OFFENDER. Any person that is required to register as a
predatory sexual offender under M.S. § 243.166, or any successor statute, and
who has been categorized as a Level III predatory offender under M.S. §
244.052, Subd. 2, or any successor statute, or a similar statute from another
state.
   LICENSED CHILD CARE PROVIDER. Any child care provider, whether a child care
center or home care provider, that is licensed to provide child care by the
State of Minnesota and/or Swift County.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges or resides for 14
or more consecutive days.
   PUBLIC TRAIL. A trail designated by a City, County, State or Federal
Government for the use of the public for recreational pursuits such as hiking,
walking, running or cycling.
   SCHOOL. Any public or nonpublic preschool, elementary school or secondary
school.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE.
      (1)   A place where a person abides, lodges or resides for a period of 14
or more days in the aggregate during any 365 day period and which is not the
person's permanent residence; or
      (2)   A place where the person routinely abides, lodges or resides for a
period of four or more consecutive or non-consecutive days in any month and
which is not the person's permanent residence.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-21-17)
§ 99.03 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS OF RESIDENCE.
   It is unlawful for any designated predatory offender to establish a
permanent residence or temporary residence within 600 feet of any of the
following:
   (A)   Public or private school;
   (B)   Licensed child care provider;
   (C)   Public park;
   (D)   Public playground;
   (E)   Recreational center;
   (F)   Place of worship that provides regular programs to individuals under
the age of 18;
   (G)   Public or private gymnasium;
   (H)   Public and private libraries open to the public;
   (I)   Sports facilities including but not limited to baseball fields,
softball fields, football fields, ice rinks, hockey rinks, soccer fields,
basketball courts, sliding hills, tennis courts, volleyball courts, or any
other sports facility where children are known to congregate; or
   (J)   The permanent or temporary residence of any other designated predatory
offender.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-21-17)
§ 99.04 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   For purposes of determining the minimum distance of separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the permanent or temporary residence to the nearest outer
property line of the properties listed in §
99.03 above.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-21-17)
§ 99.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   This section shall not apply under the following circumstances:
   (A)   The designated predatory offender established the permanent residence
or temporary residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to
M.S. § 243.3166 and 243.1767 or a successor statute prior to February 1, 2017;
   (B)   The designated predatory offender was a minor when convicted of the
offense and has not been convicted of an offense as an adult;
   (C)   The designated predatory offender is a minor;
   (D)   The designated predatory offender has been granted a risk reduction by
the End of Confinement Review Committee, pursuant to M.S. § 244.052, Subd. 3(i)
or a successor statute;
   (E)   The school, licensed child care provider, public park, recreational
area or sport facility was opened after the designated predatory offender
established the permanent or temporary residence and properly reported and
registered the same pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166 and 243.147 or a successor
statute;
   (F)   The residence is also the primary residence of the designated
predatory offender's parents, grandparents, siblings, spouse or child and this
was their residence prior to February 1, 2017; or
   (G)   The residence is property purchased, leased or contracted with and
licensed by the Minnesota Department of Corrections prior to February 1, 2017.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-21-17)
§ 99.06 PROPERTY OWNERS PROHIBITED FROM RENTING PROPERTY TO PREDATORY OFFENDERS
IN ANY EXCLUSION ZONE.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any property owner to rent or
lease real estate to any designated predatory offender if the property is in a
prohibited zone established under §
99.03 above. If the property owner discovers or is informed that a tenant is a
designated offender after a rental agreement is signed, the property owner
shall commence eviction proceedings against the designated offender and take
action to ensure that the designated offender is not residing in the exclusion
zone.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-21-17)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and penalized as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-21-17)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section:
General Provisions
   
110.01   Consumption and open container restrictions
Intoxicating Liquor
   
110.10   Adoption of state law
   
110.11   License application
   
110.12   Liability insurance
   
110.13   License fee and term
   
110.14   License approval
   
110.15   License conditions; transferability; inspections
   
110.16   License suspension and revocation
3.2 Malt liquor
   
110.25   Definitions
   
110.26   License required; types of licenses
   
110.27   License application
   
110.28   Liability insurance
   
110.29   License fee and term
   
110.30   License approval; posting of license
   
110.31   License conditions; transferability; inspections
   
110.32   Premises requirements
   
110.33   License revocation
   
110.34   Sale and the like of more potent liquor
Municipal Liquor Dispensary
   
110.45   Definitions
   
110.46   Dispensary established
   
110.47   Location; operator and employees
   
110.48   Dispensary Fund created
   
110.49   Hours of operation
   
110.50   Conditions of operation; sales and purchases
   
110.51   Enforcement
   
110.52   On sale wine license
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency; places and property used for
the unlawful manufacture and consumption of alcoholic beverages, see §
93.03
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 CONSUMPTION AND OPEN CONTAINER RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume “intoxicating liquor” or “3.2
malt liquor,” hereinafter referred to as “intoxicating beverages,” or to
possess any bottle or receptacle containing such an intoxicating beverage which
has been opened, had the seal broken, or had the contents partially removed, in
or upon all public rights-of-way and alleys within the city and in or upon all
parks and recreation areas now owned or hereafter acquired by the city,
subject, however, to the following exceptions, terms, and conditions:
   (A)   The city may issue special permits to allow the possession and
consumption of intoxicating beverages in or upon any of the above-mentioned
publicly owned property. The City Council may adopt a set of guidelines and
criteria for the issuance of such permits allowing those permits to be issued
by the City Manager as an administrative action. Any such permits so issued
shall specify the particular publicly owned property the permit applies to, the
time frame in which the permit applies, and the group or activity for which the
permit is issued. The City Council may by its guidelines or direct actions
impose such limitations and conditions upon the possession and consumption of
intoxicating beverages for each such permit issued as the City Council deems
necessary.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to registered Ambush
Park campers in regard to possession or consumption of intoxicating beverages
within the confines of their reserved campsite.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not restrict the Benson Golf Club
from allowing the possession and consumption of intoxicating beverages by its
patrons within the limits of the city golf course as the same is now laid out
and existing.
   (D)   The words “intoxicating liquor” and “3.2 malt liquor” as used herein
shall be defined in the same manner as they are defined under the laws of the
state as they relate to the control and use of said beverages.
('75 Code, § 14.501(1)-(4)) (Ord. 1023.81, passed 10-1-81; Am. Ord. 1069.91,
passed 2-7-91)
Penalty, see § 110.99
INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 110.10 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, known as the Liquor Act, relating to the
definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales, conditions of bonds of
licensees, hours of sale, and all other matters pertaining to the retail sale,
distribution, and consumption of intoxicating liquor are adopted and made a
part of this code as if set out in full.
('75 Code, § 14.101)
§ 110.11 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every application for a license to sell liquor shall state the name of the
applicant, his or her age, representations as to his or her character, with
such references as the Council may require, his or her citizenship, the type of
license applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license
will operate and its location, whether the applicant is owner or operator of
the business, how long he or she has been in that business at that place, and
such other information as the Council may require from time to time. In
addition to containing such information, the application shall be in the form
prescribed by the State Liquor Control Commissioner and shall be verified and
filed with the Clerk. No person shall make a false statement in an application.
('75 Code, § 14.102)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.12 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Prior to the issuance of a liquor license, the applicant shall file with the
City Manager a liability insurance policy with coverage in at least the
following amounts:
   (A)   For bodily injury in the amount of $50,000 for one person in any one
occurrence and subject to the limit of $100,000 for two or more persons in any
one occurrence;
   (B)   For damage to property of others in the amount of $25,000 in any one
occurrence;
   (C)   For loss of means of support in the amount of $50,000 for one person
in any one occurrence and subject to the limit of $100,000 for two or more
persons in any one occurrence;
and the applicants shall comply with the provisions of M.S. § 340A.409 relating
to liability insurance policies.
('75 Code, § 14.103) (Ord. 1055.86, passed - -86)
§ 110.13 LICENSE FEE AND TERM.
   (A)   The annual fee for a liquor license shall be determined by the City
Council and set by resolution subject to the provisions of M.S. § 340A.408.
   (B)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt from
the City Treasurer for payment in full of the license fee. All fees shall be
paid into the General Fund. If an application for a license is rejected, the
Treasurer shall refund the amount paid.
   (C)   Each license shall be issued for a period of one year except that if
the application is made during the license year, a license may be issued for
the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee, with any expired fraction of a
month being counted as one month. Every license shall expire April 13.
   (D)   No refund of any fee shall be made except as authorized by statute.
   (E)   All license fees collected shall be used only for purposes relating to
drug and alcohol education and enforcement.
('75 Code, § 14.104) (Ord. 1067.90, passed 4-2-90)
§ 110.14 LICENSE APPROVAL.
   The City Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application.
Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the
granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the Council
shall, in its discretion, grant or refuse the application.
('75 Code, § 14.105)
§ 110.15 LICENSE CONDITIONS; TRANSFERABILITY; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Person and premises licensed; transferability. Each license shall be
issued only to the applicant and for the premises described in the application.
No license may be transferred to another person or place without City Council
approval. Any transfer of the license and a transfer of stock without prior
Council approval is a ground for revocation of the license. ('75 Code, §
14.106)
   (B)   Places ineligible for license.
      (1)   Ineligible under state law. No license shall be issued for any
place or any business ineligible for such a license under state law.
      (2)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments, or other financial
claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
      (3)   Distance from school or church. No license shall be granted within
200 feet of any school or within 200 feet of any church.
('75 Code, § 14.107) (Ord. 1014.80, passed - -80)
   (C)   Other conditions. Every license is subject to the conditions in the
following subdivisions and all other provisions of this code and of any other
applicable ordinance, state law, or regulation.
      (1)   Licensee's responsibility. Every licensee is responsible for the
conduct of his or her place of business and the conditions of sobriety and
order in it. The act of any employee on the licensed premises authorized to
sell intoxicating liquor there is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and
the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this subchapter and
state law equally with the employee.
      (2)   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health
officer, or properly designated officer or employee of the city to enter,
inspect, and search the premises of the licensee during business hours without
a warrant.
      (3)   Display during prohibited hours. No “on-sale” establishment shall
display liquor to the public during hours when the sale of liquor is
prohibited.
      (4)   Federal stamps. No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale
liquor dealer's special tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
('75 Code, § 14.108) (Ord. 1067.90, passed 4-2-90)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.16 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Council may revoke any liquor license for violation of any statute or
ordinance relating to the sale of liquor or may suspend the license for a
period not exceeding 60 days if revocation is not mandatory. The licensee shall
be granted a hearing upon at least 10 days' notice before revocation or
suspension is ordered except where mandatory revocation is provided by law.
('75 Code, § 14.109)
3.2 MALT LIQUOR
§ 110.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   3.2 MALT LIQUOR. Any potable malt beverage with an alcoholic content of less
than 3.2% by weight.
   CAFE or RESTAURANT. Any place where preparing and serving lunches or meals
to the public to be consumed on the premises constitutes the major portion of
the business.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. The sealed container in which the liquor is placed at the
place of manufacture for shipment or transportation.
('75 Code, § 14.201)
§ 110.26 LICENSE REQUIRED; TYPES OF LICENSES.
   No person shall sell, vend, or deal in, or dispose of by gift, sale, or
otherwise, or keep or offer for sale, any 3.2 malt liquor within the city
without having received a license therefore. Licenses shall be of two kinds:
“on-sale” and “off-sale.”
   (A)   “On-sale” licenses shall be granted to permit the sale of such liquor
for consumption on the premises only.
   (B)   “Off-sale” licenses shall be granted to permit the sale at retail or
wholesale of such liquor in the original packages for removal from and
consumption off the premises only.
('75 Code, § 14.202)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.27 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   All applications for any license to sell 3.2 malt liquor shall be made on
forms to be supplied by the city setting forth the name of the applicant, his
or her age and citizenship, the location of the premises where such business is
to be carried on, whether such application is for on- or off-sale, the business
in connection with which the proposed license will operate, whether the
applicant is the owner and operator of such business, the time such applicant
has been in that business at that place, and such other information as the
Council may require from time to time. It shall be unlawful to make any false
statements in an application.
('75 Code, § 14.203)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.28 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a license to sell 3.2 malt liquor, unless
excepted as provided hereunder, the applicant shall file with the City Manager
a liability insurance policy with coverage in at least the following amounts:
      (1)   For bodily injury in the amount of $50,000 for one person in any
one occurrence and subject to the limit of $100,000 for two or more persons in
any one occurrence;
      (2)   For damage to property of others in the amount of $25,000 in any
one occurrence;
      (3)   For loss of means of support in the amount of $50,000 for one
person in any one occurrence and subject to the limit of $100,000 for two or
more persons in any one occurrence.
   (B)   (1)   The provisions of this section relating to liability insurance
shall not apply to licensees who, prior to the issuance of a license, establish
by affidavit that:
         (a)   They are on-sale 3.2 malt liquor licensees with sales of less
than $10,000 of 3.2 malt liquor for the preceding year; or,
         (b)   They are off-sale 3.2 malt liquor licensees with sales of less
than $20,000 of 3.2 malt liquor for the preceding year.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to verify the facts contained in said
affidavit by examination of the licensee's business records relating to sales
of 3.2 malt liquor at any time.
('75 Code, § 14.210) (Ord. 1057.86, passed 10-2-86)
§ 110.29 LICENSE FEE AND TERM.
   (A)   All licenses shall expire on April 13 in each year. All applications
for licenses shall be accompanied by a receipt from the City Treasurer for the
required fee for the respective license. All such fees shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city. Upon rejection of any application for a license, the
Treasurer shall refund the amount paid.
   (B)   The annual fee for an “on-sale” or “off-sale” license shall be
determined by the City Council and set by resolution. The license fee may be
prorated on a monthly basis when the applicant is engaged in a strictly
seasonal business, or when the first application is for a fractional part of a
year. All license fees collected shall be used only for purposes relating to
drug and alcohol education and enforcement.
('75 Code, § 14.204) (Ord. 1067.90, passed 4-2-90)
§ 110.30 LICENSE APPROVAL; POSTING OF LICENSE.
   The Council shall cause an investigation to be made of all facts set forth
in the application. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of a license. After such investigation the Council shall
grant or refuse the application in its discretion. All licensed premises shall
have the license thereof posted in a conspicuous place.
('75 Code, § 14.205)
§ 110.31 LICENSE CONDITIONS; TRANSFERABILITY; INSPECTIONS.
   All licenses shall be granted subject to the following conditions of this
code and subject to all other ordinances of the city applicable thereto,
including state and federal laws:
   (A)   No license shall be granted to any person under 21 years of age.
   (B)   No license shall be granted to any person who has been convicted of a
felony or any law of this state or local ordinances relating to the manufacture
and sale of or transportation of intoxicating liquors.
   (C)   No license shall be granted for “on-sale” on any premises where a
licensee has been convicted of a violation of this subchapter or where any
license hereunder has been revoked for cause for at least one year after the
said conviction or revocation.
   (D)   No sale of any 3.2 malt liquor shall be made to any person under 21
years of age.
   (E)   All premises where any license hereunder is granted shall be open to
inspection by any police or health officer or other properly designated officer
or employee of the city at any time during which the place so licensed is open
to the public for business.
   (F)   No gambling, nor any gambling device prohibited by law, shall be
permitted in any licensed premises.
   (G)   All licenses granted shall be issued to the applicant only and shall
be issued for the premises described in the application and shall not be
transferred to another place without the approval of the City Council.
   (H)   No license shall be granted to anyone manufacturing non-intoxicating
malt liquor nor to anyone interested in the control of any such place, and no
equipment or fixture in any licensed place shall be owned in whole or in part
by such manufacturer.
   (I)   No license shall be granted for any premises within 100 feet of any
public school or church.
   (J)   Licenses shall be granted only to persons who are citizens of the
United States of America and the residents of the city, and persons of good
moral character.
('75 Code, § 14.206)
Penalty, see § 110.99
Cross-reference:
   
Gambling, see Ch. 111
§ 110.32 PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   In any place licensed for “on-sale,” except a private club, the windows of
the building shall be of clear glass, and the view of the interior shall not be
obstructed by screens, curtains, displays, or partitions. Booths shall be
permitted when they do not cut off the view of the interior of the premises and
are not enclosed from all sides. Cafes and restaurants shall be permitted to
sell 3.2 malt liquors in a private dining room for dinners or banquets at which
more than six persons are served.
('75 Code, § 14.207)
§ 110.33 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   Any license granted hereunder may be revoked by the City Council without
notice to the licensee. A hearing may first be held by the Council and the
violation of conditions of this code or any falsification of any statement in
the application shall be cause for immediate revocation of the license. No
portion of the license fee shall be refunded upon revocation.
('75 Code, § 14.208)
§ 110.34 SALE AND THE LIKE OF MORE POTENT LIQUOR.
   Nothing hereunder shall permit the manufacture, sale, transportation, or
keeping or having in possession for sale or transportation of, or taking,
receiving, or soliciting any order for any liquor of a greater alcoholic
content than 3.2% by weight, except for medical, pharmaceutical, or scientific
purposes, and any such act is hereby made unlawful except where otherwise
authorized by law. Any violation of this provision upon any premises licensed
hereunder shall also constitute cause for revocation of the license, and the
same shall automatically be revoked upon a conviction for a violation of this
provision.
('75 Code, § 14.209)
Penalty, see § 110.99
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR DISPENSARY
§ 110.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER. Any malt beverage with an alcoholic content of more than 0.5% by
volume and not more then 3.2% by weight.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Distilled, vinous, and fermented beverages containing
more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight.
   MINOR. Any person not having attained the age of majority as defined by the
Minnesota Statutes.
   OFF-SALE. Retail sale in the original package for consumption away from the
Dispensary.
   ON-SALE. Sale by the drink for consumption in the Dispensary.
   SELL. Includes all barters, gifts, and other means for furnishing
intoxicating liquors or beer in violation or evasion of this subchapter.
('75 Code, § 14.301)
§ 110.46 DISPENSARY ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Municipal Liquor Dispensary for the on- and
off-sale of intoxicating liquor.
('75 Code, § 14.302)
Cross-reference:
   
Municipal Liquor Operations Department, see § 32.31
§ 110.47 LOCATION; OPERATOR AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Dispensary shall be located at such suitable place in the city as
the Council may determine by resolution. However, no premises upon which taxes
or other public levies are delinquent shall be leased for dispensary purposes.
   (B)   The Dispensary shall be in the immediate charge of a liquor store
manager selected by the Council and paid such compensation as fixed by the
Council. The manager shall operate the Dispensary under the City Finance
Director's direction and shall perform such duties in connection with the
Dispensary as may be imposed upon him or her by the administration for the
conduct of the Dispensary in full compliance with this code and the laws
relating to the sale of liquor and beer.
   (C)   The City Finance Director shall also appoint such additional employees
as may be required for the Dispensary and shall fix their compensation. No
minor shall be employed in the Dispensary.
('75 Code, § 14.303) (Am. Ord. 1061.88 passed 1-7-88)
§ 110.48 DISPENSARY FUND CREATED.
   (A)   A Municipal Liquor Dispensary Fund is hereby created in which all
revenues received from the operation of the dispensary shall be deposited and
from which all ordinary operating expenses shall be paid.
   (B)   Any amounts it may be necessary to borrow from the General Fund of the
city for initial costs of rent, fixtures, and stock or for the operating
expense shall be reimbursed to that Fund out of the first available monies
coming into the Dispensary Fund thereafter. Surpluses accumulating in the
Dispensary Fund may be transferred to the General Fund or to any other
appropriate fund of the city by resolution of the Council and expended for any
municipal purpose.
   (C)   The handling of Municipal Liquor Dispensary receipts and disbursements
shall comply with the procedure prescribed by Charter for the receipts and
disbursements of city funds generally.
('75 Code, § 14.305)
Cross-reference:
   
Taxation and finances, see Charter Ch. 7
§ 110.49 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The Dispensary shall observe the following restrictions upon the days of
operation:
   (A)   No sale of intoxicating liquor shall be made at any time or on any day
which is prohibited by M.S. Ch. 340A or laws amendatory or supplementary
thereof.
('75 Code, § 14.306) (Am. Ord. 1063.88, passed 9-8-88)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.50 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION; SALES AND PURCHASES.
   (A)   No liquor or beer shall be sold on credit.
   (B)   No minor shall be permitted to remain on the Dispensary premises.
   (C)   No minor shall misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
obtaining liquor or beer.
   (D)   No liquor or beer shall be sold or served to a minor, directly or
indirectly.
   (E)   No liquor or beer shall be sold or served to an intoxicated person.
   (F)   No person shall be permitted to loiter about the Dispensary
habitually.
   (G)   No person of a known immoral character and disorderly person shall be
permitted on the Dispensary premises.
   (H)   No liquor or beer shall be sold or served to any person who, in the
opinion of the liquor store manager or liquor store employee, is not properly
attired, and said person upon request shall leave the Dispensary.
('75 Code, § 14.307)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.51 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all police officers of the city to enforce the
provisions of this code and to search the premises and seize evidence of law
violations and preserve the same as evidence against any person alleged to be
violating this code.
('75 Code, § 14.308)
§ 110.52 ON SALE WINE LICENSE
   (A)   Adoption of state law. The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, relating to
the consumption and sale of intoxicating liquor are adopted and made a part of
this section as if set out in full.
   (B)   Wine licenses. An on-sale wine license authorizes the sale of wine not
exceeding 14% alcohol by volume for consumption on the licensed premises only
in conjunction with the sale of food. An on-sale wine license may be issued
only to a restaurant having facilities for seating not fewer than 25 guests at
one time. For purposes of this section, a restaurant means an establishment
under the control of a single proprietor or manager having appropriate
facilities for serving meals and where, in consideration of payment therefore,
meals are regularly served at tables to the general public, and which employs
an adequate staff to provide the usual and suitable service to its guests.
   (C)   License required for on-sale of wine. No person shall sell any wine
not exceeding 14% alcohol by volume by the glass without an on-sale wine
license as provided herein or an on-sale intoxicating liquor license as
provided in M.S. Ch. 340A.
   (D)   Application of license.
      (1)   Form. Every application for on-sale wine license shall state the
name of the applicant, his or her age, representations as to his character with
such references as the Council may require, his or her citizenship, the
restaurant in connection with which the proposed licensee will operate and its
location, whether the applicant is owner and operator of the restaurant, how
long he has been in the restaurant business at that place, and such other
information as the Council may require from time to time. In addition to
containing such information, the application shall be in a form prescribed by
the State Liquor Control Commissioner and shall be verified and filed with the
City Administrator. No person shall make a false statement in an application.
      (2)   Liability insurance. Prior to the issuance of a wine license, the
applicant shall file with the City Administrator a liability insurance policy
in the amount of $50,000 coverage for bodily injury for one person in any one
occurrence; $100,000 coverage for bodily injury for two or more persons in any
one occurrence; $10,000 because of injury to or destruction of others in any
one occurrence, $50,000 for loss of means of support of any one person in any
one occurrence and $100,000 for loss of means of support of two or more persons
in any one occurrence and shall comply with the provisions of M.S. § 340A.409
relating to liability insurance policies.
      (3)    Approval of security. The security offered shall be approved by
the City Council and shall comply with the provisions of M.S. § 340A.409
relating to surety bonds shall be approved as to form by the city attorney.
Operation of a licensed business without having on file with the city at all
times effective security as required in this section is a cause for revocation
of the license.
      (4)    License fees.
         (a)   Amount. The annual fee for a wine license shall be in the amount
duly established by the Council by esolution from time to time. The annual fee
for an extended license shall be as set forth by the State of Minnesota.
         (b)   Payment. Each application for a wine license shall be
accompanied by a receipt from the city treasurer for payment in full of the
license fee. All fees shall be paid into the general fund. If an application
for a license is rejected, the treasurer shall refund the amount due.
         (c)   Term. Each license shall be issued for a period of one year.
Every license shall expire on the last day April 13.
         (d)   Refunds. No refund of any fee shall be made except as authorized
by statute.
   (E)   Granting of licenses.
      (1)   Investigation and issuance. The City Council shall investigate all
facts set out in the application. After the investigation, the Council shall,
in its discretion, grant or refuse the application. No wine license shall
become effective until it, together with the security furnished by the
applicant, and has been approved by the City Council.
      (2)   Persons and premises licensed; transfer. Each License shall be
issued only to the applicant and for the premises described in the application.
No license may be transferred to another person or place without City Council
approval. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed a transfer of
the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval is a ground
for revocation of the license.
      (3)   Persons ineligible for license. No wine license shall be granted to
any person made ineligible for such a license by state law.
      (4)   Places ineligible for license.
         (a)   General prohibition. No wine license shall be issued for any
restaurant ineligible for such a license under state law.
         (b)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments, or other financial
claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (F)   Conditions of license.
      (1)   In general. Every license is subject to the conditions in the
following divisions and all other provisions of this section and of other
applicable ordinance, state law, or regulation.
      (2)   Licensee's responsibility. Every licensee is responsible for the
conduct of his or her place of business and the conditions of sobriety and
order in it. The act of any employee on the licensed premises authorized to
sell intoxicating liquor there is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and
the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this section and the
law equally with the employee.
      (3)   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health
officer, or properly designated officer or employee of the city to enter,
inspect, and search the premises of the licensee during business hours without
a warrant.
      (4)   Display during prohibited hours. No licensee shall display wine to
the public during hours when the sale of wine is prohibited.
      (5)   Federal stamps. No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale
liquor dealers special tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
      (6)   Hours of sale. No sale of wine under this license shall be made on
the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., Monday through
Saturday inclusive, or on any Sunday between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 12:00
p.m., nor permit the presence of customers on the premises between the hours of
2:30 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday inclusive, or on any Sunday
between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 12:00 p.m.
   (G)   Combination wine/3.2 beer on-sale option. Provided that an applicant
meets or exceeds the requirements of this chapter and the requirements of §§
110.25 through
110.34, which pertains to 3.2 beer on-sale, the applicant may apply for a
single license authorizing the sale and consumption of wine not to exceed 14%
alcohol by volume and beer not to exceed 3.2% alcohol by volume. (Intoxicating
malt liquor may be sold on premises holding both a 3.2% malt liquor on-sale
license and a wine license.) Fees for said combination license shall be
according to a fee schedule adopted by the City Council. The annual fee for an
extended hours combination license shall be in an amount established by the
State of Minnesota.
   (H)   Suspensions and revocation. The Council may either suspend for not to
exceed 60 days or revoke any on-sale wine license upon a finding that the
licensee has failed to comply with any applicable statute, regulation, or
ordinance relating to intoxicating liquor, or any of the provisions of this
section. No suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has
been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 through
14.69.
Ord. 1119.06, passed 5-8-06) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be penalized as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
110.01 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
('75 Code, § 14.501(5)) (Ord. 1032.83, passed 2-3-83)
CHAPTER 111: GAMBLING; BINGO
Section
Gambling
   
111.01   Adoption of state law
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   License application
   
111.04   Bond
   
111.05   License fee and term
   
111.06   License approval
   
111.07   License conditions; transferability
   
111.08   License suspension and revocation
   
111.09   Limitation on licensing authority
Bingo
   
111.20   Purpose
   
111.21   Definitions
   
111.22   License required; fee and term, transferability, and the like
   
111.23   License application
   
111.24   License suspension and revocation
   
111.25   Conduct of bingo
   
111.26   Leased premises; duties of lessors; leases
   
111.27   Exemptions
   
111.28   Prizes
   
111.29   Records and receipts
   
111.30   Reports
   
111.31   Records inspections
   
111.32   Use of receipts
   
111.33   Use of profits
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency; unauthorized gambling
devices, betting, and the like, see §
93.03
GAMBLING
§ 111.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of Minnesota Statutes 1974 Section 349.26 (M.S. § 349.26)
relating to the definition of terms, licensing, conditions of bonds of
licensees, and all other matters pertaining to the conduct of raffles and
operation of pull-tabs are adopted and made a part of this code as if set out
in full.
('75 Code, § 13.106) (Ord. 1035.83, passed 4-21-83)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No raffle shall be conducted nor shall any pull-tabs be operated within the
limits of the city without a license. Licenses shall be issued only to
organizations meeting the criteria of M.S. § 349.26(9).
('75 Code, § 13.107) (Ord. 1035.83, passed 4-21-83)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every application for a license to conduct a raffle or operate pull-tabs
shall be made in the form prescribed by the City Council and shall be verified
and filed with the City Manager. The application shall contain, in addition to
any other information called for in the application form, the name of the
applicant organization, the particular facts which qualify the organization for
the license under M.S. § 349.26(9), the name of the gambling manager, the
gambling devices which the organization proposes to operate and the location at
which it will be operated.
('75 Code, § 13.108) (Ord. 1035.83, passed 4-21-83)
§ 111.04 BOND.
   Every application for a license shall be accompanied by a fidelity bond
given by the gambling manager in favor of the organization in the sum of
$10,000 conditioned on the faithful performance of his or her duties. The City
Council may in its discretion by unanimous vote waive the requirement of a bond
in any particular case.
('75 Code, § 13.109) (Ord. 1035.83, passed 4-21-82)
§ 111.05 LICENSE FEE AND TERM.
   (A)   The annual fee for a raffle license, pull-tab license and a single
event pull-tab license shall be as may be adopted from time to time by Council
resolution or ordinance.
   (B)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt from
the City Treasurer for payment in full of the license fee. All fees shall be
paid into the General Fund. If an application for a license is rejected, the
Treasurer shall refund the amount paid.
   (C)   Each license except for a license issued for a single event shall be
issued for a period of one year except that if the application is made during
the license year, a license may be issued for the remainder of the year for a
pro rata fee, with any expired fraction of a month being counted as one month.
Every license shall expire on April 13 of each year.
   (D)   No refund of any fee shall be made except as authorized by statute or
provisions of this code.
('75 Code, § 13.110) (Ord. 1035.83, passed 4-21-83)
§ 111.06 LICENSE APPROVAL.
   The City Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and
shall hold a public hearing at which any person shall have the opportunity to
be heard for or against the granting of the license. After the investigation
and hearing, the Council shall, in its discretion, grant or refuse the
application.
('75 Code, § 13.111) (Ord. 1035.83, passed 4-21-83)
§ 111.07 LICENSE CONDITIONS; TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   Persons and premises licensed; transfer. Each license shall be issued
only to the applicant organization and for the premises described in the
application. No license may be transferred to another person or place without
City Council approval. Any transfer of the license without said approval is a
ground for revocation of the license.
('75 Code, § 13.112)
   (B)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments, or other financial
claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
('75 Code, § 13.113)
(Ord. 1035.83, passed 4-21-83)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.08 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Council may revoke or suspend any license for violation of any statute
or ordinance relating to the operation of gambling devices. The licensee shall
be granted a hearing upon at least 10 days' notice before revocation or
suspension is ordered except where mandatory revocation is provided by law.
('75 Code, § 13.114) (Ord. 1035.83, passed 4-21-83)
Cross-reference:
   
Suspension of sexually oriented business or business employee license for
gambling on premises, see § 117.21
§ 111.09 LIMITATION ON LICENSING AUTHORITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to allow the operation of paddle-
wheels, tip-boards or any other gambling device other than raffles and pull-
tabs, and no license may be granted for the operation of any gambling device
other than raffles and pull-tabs.
('75 Code, § 13.115) (Ord. 1035.83, passed 4-21-83)
BINGO
§ 111.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to closely regulate and control the
conduct of the game of bingo and to prohibit commercialization of bingo.
('75 Code, § 13.501) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
§ 111.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE MEMBER. A member of the organization requesting a license whose dues
are paid for the current membership period and who has been a member for at
least six months.
   BINGO. A game where each player has a card or board for which a
consideration has been paid containing five horizontal rows of spaces, with
each row except the central one containing five figures. The central row has
four figures with the word “free” marked in the center space thereof. A player
wins a game of bingo by completing any pre-announced combination or spaces or,
in the absence of a pre-announcement of a combination of spaces, any
combination of five spaces in a row, either vertically, horizontally, or
diagonally.
   BINGO OCCASION. A single gathering or session at which a series of one or
more successive bingo games is played.
   ELIGIBLE ORGANIZATION. Any fraternal, religious, veterans, or other
nonprofit organization which has been in existence for at least three years and
has at least 30 active members.
   PROFIT. The gross receipts collected from one or more bingo occasions less
reasonable sums necessarily and actually expended for bingo supplies and
equipment, prizes, rent, and utilities used during the bingo occasions, bingo
license fees, and compensation to persons lawfully hired to conduct or assist
in conducting a bingo occasion.
('75 Code, § 13.502) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
§ 111.22 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE AND TERM, TRANSFERABILITY, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No bingo occasion shall be conducted except by an eligible
organization which has secured a license for that purpose as provided in this
subchapter.
   (B)   A license shall be valid for 12 calendar months from the date of
issuance.
   (C)   The annual license fee shall be as may be adopted from time to time by
Council resolution or ordinance.
   (D)   A license application shall be acted upon by the Council no sooner
than 30 days and no later than 180 days after the date of application.
   (E)   No bingo license issued may be transferred to any other person or
organization. No bingo license shall be transferred to any location other than
the location specified in the license, without prior approval by the Council.
('75 Code, § 13.503) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.23 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every application for a bingo license shall be made to the City Clerk on a
form supplied by the city and containing such information as the Clerk or the
Council may require. No person shall make a false statement in an application.
Copies of each application shall be referred to the city's Police Chief, Fire
Chief and Building Inspector for their recommendations.
('75 Code, § 13.504) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
Cross-reference:
   
Reports to accompany license application, see § 111.30
§ 111.24 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Council may suspend for a period not exceeding 60 days or revoke any
bingo license for violation of any provision of M.S. Ch. 349 or this
subchapter. The holder of the license shall be granted a hearing upon at least
10 days' notice before revocation or suspension is ordered. The notice shall
state the time and place of the hearing and the nature of the charges against
the license.
('75 Code, § 13.505) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
§ 111.25 CONDUCT OF BINGO.
   (A)   Bingo manager. Each licensed organization shall appoint a bingo
manager to supervise bingo occasions conducted by it. The bingo manager must be
a member of the licensed organization with dues paid for the current membership
period and must have been a member of the organization for at least two years.
Each bingo occasion shall be conducted under the direct supervision of the
bingo manager, who shall be responsible for the conduct of the bingo occasion
in compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances. No person shall act as a
bingo manager for more than one organization.
   (B)   Checkers. One or more checkers shall be engaged for each bingo
occasion. The checkers shall be active members of the licensed organization or
spouses of active members of the licensed organization. The checker or checkers
shall record the number of cards purchased and played in each game prior to the
completion of each game and record the prizes awarded to the recorded cards.
Each checker shall certify all figures which he or she has recorded as accurate
and correct to the best of his or her knowledge on forms prescribed by the City
Clerk.
   (C)   Other workers. Additional persons may be engaged for other duties in
connection with bingo occasions as needed, but no person shall assist in the
conduct of a bingo occasion who is not an active member of the licensed
organization or the spouse of an active member of the licensed organization.
   (D)   Compensation. No person shall receive more compensation for any duties
in connection with any one bingo occasion than the amount as may be adopted
from time to time by Council resolution or ordinance.
   (E)   Number of bingo occasions authorized. No more than 104 bingo occasions
each year or two bingo occasions each week shall be conducted by any licensed
organization.
   (F)   Duration of bingo occasion. A bingo occasion shall not continue for
more than four consecutive hours.
('75 Code, § 13.506) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.26 LEASED PREMISES; DUTIES OF LESSORS; LEASES.
   (A)   Any person, corporation, or eligible organization which leases any
premises that it owns to two or more eligible organizations for purposes
including the conduct of bingo occasions shall not allow more than four bingo
occasions to be conducted on the premises in any week.
   (B)   Any eligible organization which leases any premises to one or more
other eligible organizations for purposes including the conduct of bingo
occasions shall use the proceeds of the rental, less reasonable sums for
maintenance, furnishings, and other necessary expenses, only for the uses for
which bingo profits may be used, as set out in §
111.33 of this subchapter. Not less than once each year the lessor organization
shall report to the City Council the disposition of all receipts which it has
received during the reporting period from the rental of its facilities to other
organizations for purposes including the conduct of bingo occasions.
   (C)   No eligible organization shall conduct bingo on any leased premises
without a written lease for a term at least equal to the remainder of the term
of the bingo license of the lessee organization. Lease payments shall be at a
fixed monthly rate, or rate per bingo occasion, not subject to change during
the term of the lease. No such lease shall provide that rental payments be
based on a percentage of receipts or profits from bingo occasions.
('75 Code, § 13.507) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.27 EXEMPTIONS.
   Bingo may be conducted without complying with the requirements of §
111.25 (E) and (F), and §
111.26 if conducted:
   (A)   In connection with the county fair conducted by the county
agricultural society or in connection with a civic celebration recognized by
resolution of the City Council, provided that bingo shall not be conducted for
more than 12 days during any one county fair or recognized civic celebration;
or
   (B)   By an organization that conducts fewer than five bingo occasions in
any calendar year.
('75 Code, § 13.514) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
§ 111.28 PRIZES.
   (A)   Prizes for bingo games (single and cover-alls) shall be such amounts
as may be adopted from time to time by Council resolution or ordinance.
Merchandise prizes shall be valued at fair market retail value.
   (B)   Each bingo winner shall be determined and every prize shall be awarded
and delivered the same day on which the bingo occasion is conducted.
('75 Code, § 13.508) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.29 RECORDS AND RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Each licensed organization shall keep records of its gross receipts
and profits for each bingo occasion. All deductions from gross receipts from a
bingo occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records. The
distribution of profits shall be itemized as to payee, amount, and date of
payment. Records required by this subchapter shall be preserved for three
years.
   (B)   Gross receipts shall be compared to the checkers' records for the
bingo occasion by a person who did not sell cards for the bingo occasion. If a
discrepancy exceeding such amount as may be adopted from time to time by
Council resolution or ordinance is found between the amount of gross receipts
for a bingo occasion as determined by the checkers' records, and the amount of
gross receipts as determined by totaling the cash receipts, the discrepancy
shall be reported to and investigated by the Council.
   (C)   Bingo gross receipts shall be segregated from other revenues of an
organization and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall maintain
separate records of its bingo operations. The person who accounts for bingo
gross receipts and profits shall not be the same person who accounts for other
revenues of the licensed organization.
('75 Code, § 13.509) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.30 REPORTS.
   (A)   Each licensed organization shall report monthly to its membership its
gross receipts from bingo, its profits from bingo, and the distribution of
those profits itemized as required by §
111.29(A).
   (B)   At the time of making its first license application under this
subchapter, and on an annual basis thereafter, each licensed organization shall
file with the Council copies of the following:
      (1)   The most recently filed Department of the Treasury, Internal
Revenue Service “Return of Organization Exempt from Income Tax,” Form 990, or a
comparable form if the organization is required to file the form with the
Department of the Treasury;
      (2)   The most recently filed Department of the Treasury, Internal
Revenue Service “Exempt Organization Business Income Tax,”" Form 990-T, or a
comparable form if the organization is required to file the form with the
Department of the Treasury;
      (3)   The most recently filed annual report required of charitable
organizations by M.S. § 309.53, provided that an organization that is licensed
to conduct bingo but is exempt from submitting this report to the Department of
Commerce under M.S. § 309.53(1a) shall nevertheless submit such a report under
this subdivision;
      (4)   The most recently filed Minnesota Department of Commerce “Statement
of Bingo Operations.” All information contained in the statement shall be true,
correct, and complete to the best of the knowledge of the person or persons
signing the statement;
      (5)   Any lease agreements required by this act executed by the
organization in regard to premises leased for the conduct of bingo.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement in any report
required by this section.
('75 Code, § 13.510) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.31 RECORDS INSPECTIONS.
   Any city official or employee having a duty to perform with reference to a
bingo license, and any police officer, may inspect and examine the bingo
records of any licensed organization upon 24 hours' notice.
('75 Code, § 13.511) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
§ 111.32 USE OF RECEIPTS.
   No expense shall be incurred or amounts paid in connection with the conduct
of bingo except those reasonably expended for bingo supplies and equipment,
prizes, rent, or utilities used during the bingo occasion, bingo license fees,
and compensation to persons lawfully hired to conduct or assist in conducting a
bingo occasion.
('75 Code, § 13.512) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.33 USE OF PROFITS.
   (A)   Profits from any bingo occasions shall be expended only as authorized
by a resolution meeting of the licensed organization and only for one or more
of the following purposes:
      (1)   Benefiting persons by enhancing their opportunity for religious or
educational advancement, by relieving or protecting them from disease,
suffering, or distress, by contributing to their physical well-being, by
assisting them in establishing themselves in life as worthy and useful
citizens, or by increasing their comprehension of and devotion to the
principles upon which this nation was founded;
      (2)   Initiating, performing, or fostering worthy public works or
enabling or furthering the erection or maintenance of public structures;
      (3)   Lessening the burdens borne by government or voluntarily
supporting, augmenting, or supplementing services which government would
normally render to the people;
      (4)   The improving, expanding, maintaining, or repairing of real
property owned or leased by the licensed organization.
   (B)   Profits from bingo occasions shall not be expended for the erection or
acquisition of any real property unless the City Council specifically
authorizes the expenditures after finding that the property will be used
exclusively for one or more of the purposes specified in this section.
('75 Code, § 13.513) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be penalized as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of §
111.20 et seq. shall be a misdemeanor. A person convicted of violating any
provision of §
111.20 et seq. shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99, plus the costs of prosecution.
('75 Code, § 13.515) (Ord. 1000.76, passed - -76)
CHAPTER 112: TOBACCO AND RELATED DEVICES AND PRODUCTS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Application, issuance, and conditions of license
   
112.05   License fee
   
112.06   Basis for denial of license
   
112.07   Prohibited sales
   
112.08   Responsibility
   
112.09   Employee education and training
   
112.10   Compliance checks and inspections
   
112.11   Prohibited acts
   
112.12   Exceptions and defenses
 
   
112.99   Violations and penalties
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Tobacco is the leading cause of preventable death in Minnesota and the
United States. Preventing tobacco use among young people is critical to ending
the U.S. tragedy of deaths from tobacco-related causes. Because the city
recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years purchase or otherwise
obtain, possess, and use tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery
devices, or nicotine or lobelia delivery products, and the sale, possession,
and use violates both state and federal laws; and because studies, which are
hereby accepted and adopted, (i.e. CDC, Minnesota Department of Public Health/
ASSIST) have shown that most smokers begin smoking before 18 years of age and
those persons who have reached the age of 18 years without starting smoking are
significantly less likely to begin smoking; and because tobacco has been shown
to be the cause of several serious health problems which place financial
burdens on all levels of government; this chapter shall be intended to regulate
sale, possession, and use of tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic
delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery products for the purpose of
enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect minors against the serious
effects associated with illegal use of tobacco and related devices and
products, and to further the official public policy of the State of Minnesota
in regard to preventing young people from starting to smoke as stated in M.S. §
144.391.
   (B)   The enactment of this chapter directly pertains to and is in
furtherance of the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the
city, particularly those residents under 18 years of age.
(‘75 Code, § 14.901) (Ord. 1090.95, passed 2-16-95; Am. Ord. 1148.16, passed
11-21-16)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING. Packaging that meets the definition set forth in
the Code of Federal Regulations, title 16, § 1700.15(b), as in effect on
January 1, 2015, and was tested in accordance with the method described in Code
of Federal Regulations, title 16, § 1700.20, as in effect on January 1, 2015.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying with the
requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall involve the use of minors
as authorized by this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of
minors who attempt to purchase licensed products for educational, research and
training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws. COMPLIANCE CHECKS
may also be conducted by other units of government for the purpose of enforcing
appropriate federal, state or local laws and regulations relating to licensed
products.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used
by a person to simulate smoking in the delivery of nicotine or any other
substance through inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product. ELECTRONIC
DELIVERY DEVICES includes any component part of a product, whether or not
marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES does not include any
product that has been approved or certified by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as a tobacco-dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for such an
approved purpose.
   INDOOR AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by
walls, doorways, or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than 50% of
the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the perimeter of
the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other
physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent. A standard (0.011 gauge with
an 18 by 16 mesh count) window screen is not considered a wall.
   LICENSED PRODUCTS. The term that collectively refers to tobacco, tobacco-
related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery
products.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette or any other licensed product that has been removed from its intended
retail packaging and offered for sale.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 21 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a kiosk,
truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and
not a fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized
for sales transactions.
   NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCTS. Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such a
product, that is not tobacco or an electronic delivery device as defined in
this section. NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCTS does not include any
product that has been approved or otherwise certified for legal sale by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for tobacco use cessation or for
other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where licensed products are
available for sale to the general public. The phrase shall include but not be
limited to grocery stores, convenience stores, gasoline service stations, bars,
and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of licensed products in any manner
where any person shall have access to the licensed products without the
assistance or intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee. The
assistance or intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the
licensed product between the customer and the licensee or employee. Self-
service sales are interpreted as being any sale where there is not an actual
physical exchange between the clerk and the customer.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. Inhaling or exhaling smoke from any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other tobacco, plant, or synthetic product or
inhaling or exhaling aerosol or vapor from an electronic delivery device.
SMOKING includes being in possession of a lighted or heated cigar, cigarette,
pipe, or any other tobacco, plant, or synthetic product intended for
inhalation, or an electronic delivery device that is turned on or otherwise
activated.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any product containing, made, or derived from
tobacco that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means,
or any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product including but not
limited to cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, stogies, perique, granulated, plug
cut, crimp cut, ready-rubbed, or other smoking tobacco, snuff, snuff flower,
cavendish, plug and twist tobacco, fine cut and other chewing tobaccos, shorts,
refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco, and other kinds
and forms of tobacco. TOBACCO does not include any product that has been
approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a
tobacco-cessation product, as a tobacco-dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for such an approved
purpose.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Any pipe, rolling papers, or other device
intentionally designed or intended to be used in a manner which enables the
chewing, sniffing, smoking, or inhalation of vapors of tobacco or tobacco
products. TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES includes components of tobacco-related
devices which may be marketed or sold separately.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses licensed products upon insertion of money, tokens, or
any other form of payment directly into the machine by the person seeking to
purchase the licensed product.
(‘75 Code, § 14.902) (Ord. 1090.95, passed 2-16-95; Am. Ord. 1098.96, passed 3-
11-96; Am. Ord. 1107.01, passed 7-23-01; Am. Ord. 1148.16, passed 11-21-16; Am.
Ord., passed --)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise dispose of any tobacco,
tobacco-related device, electronic delivery device or nicotine or lobelia
delivery product at any place in the city unless a license therefor shall first
have been obtained.
(‘75 Code, § 14.903) (Ord. 1090.95, passed 2-16-95; Am. Ord. 1148.16, passed
11-21-16) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 APPLICATION, ISSUANCE, AND CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   License application. Application for such license shall be made to the
Clerk on a form supplied by the city. Such application shall state the full
name and address of the applicant, the location of the building and the part
intended to be used by the applicant under such license, the kind of business
conducted at such location, and such other information as shall be required by
the application form. The applicant is required to sign a statement
acknowledging that, as a condition of licensing, each merchant will, at least
once each year, undergo an unannounced compliance check conducted by or under
the authority of the city using minors over the age of 15 years but under the
age of 21 years. Upon the filing of the application with the Clerk and
completion of a brief written questionnaire covering applicable law, the
application shall be presented to the Council for consideration.
   (B)   Action. The City Council or its designee may either approve or deny
the license, or it may delay action for such reasonable period of time as
necessary to complete any investigation of the application it deems necessary.
If the City Council shall approve the license, the City Clerk shall issue the
license to the applicant upon payment of the required fee. If the license is
denied, notice of the denial shall be given to the applicant along with the
notice of the applicant's right to appeal the decision.
   (C)   Term. Every license shall expire on December 31 after its issuance.
   (D)   Transfers. All licenses issued shall be valid only on the premises for
which the license was issued and only for the person to whom the license was
issued. No transfer of any license to another location or person shall be
valid.
   (E)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed.
   (F)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premise.
   (G)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the
expiration of the current license.
   (H)   Issuance as privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license shall
be considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the applicant and shall
not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the license.
   (I)   Revocation or suspension. Every such license may be revoked or
suspended by the Council for a violation of any provision of this code if the
licensee has been given reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard.
(‘75 Code, § 14.905) (Ord. 1090.95, passed 2-16-95; Am. Ord. 1107.01, passed 7-
23-01; Am. Ord. 1148.16, passed 11-21-16; Am. Ord., passed --)
§ 112.05 LICENSE FEE.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee is paid in full. The fee shall be established by resolution and may be
amended from time to time.
(‘75 Code, § 14.906) (Ord. 1090.95, passed 2-16-95; Am. Ord. 1148.16, passed
11-21-16)
§ 112.06 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license include but
are not limited to the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to licensed products;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products suspended
or revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false and misleading information; or
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license.
   (B)   However, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of
any particular ground for denial does not mean that the city must deny the
license.
   (C)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for a license under
this chapter.
(Ord. 1148.16, passed 11-21-16)
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   General. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to
sell or offer to sell any licensed products:
      (1)   To any person under the age of 21 years;
      (2)   By means of loosies as defined in §
112.02 of this chapter;
      (3)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intent of this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes or
other tobacco products; or
      (4)   By any other means, to any other person, in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state, or other local law, ordinance provision, or
other regulation.
   (B)   Vending machines. No license shall sell or dispense any licensed
product by use of a vending machine.
   (C)   Self-service sales. It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this
chapter to allow the sale of licensed products by any means whereby the
customer may have access to such items without having to request the item from
the licensee or the licensee's employee; and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the licensed products between the licensee or his/her clerk and the
customer.
   (D)   Liquid packaging. The sale of any liquid, whether or not such liquid
contains nicotine, intended for human consumption and use in an electronic
delivery device, that is not contained in child-resistant packaging is
prohibited. All licensees under this chapter must ensure that any liquid
intended for use in an electronic delivery device is sold in child-resistant
packaging. Upon request, a licensee shall provide a copy of the certificate of
compliance for full laboratory testing report for the packaging used.
(Ord. 1148.16, passed 11-21-16; Am. Ord., passed --)
§ 112.08 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of licensed products on the licensed
premises, and the sale of such an item by an employee shall be considered a
sale by the license holder. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the city from also subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are
appropriate under this chapter, state or federal law, or other applicable law
or regulation.
(Ord. 1148.16, passed 11-21-16)
§ 112.09 EMPLOYEE EDUCATION AND TRAINING.
   A licensee shall be responsible for educating its employees about the
penalties for violations of the provisions of this chapter and providing
periodic training to employees about applicable laws governing sales of tobacco
products. At the time of licensing, the licensee will be provided with
materials to be used to train retail clerks.
(Ord. 1148.16, passed 11-21-16)
§ 112.10 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by law enforcement or
other authorized city official during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks by
engaging, with the written consent of their parents or guardians, minors over
the age of 15 years but less than 21 years to enter the licensed premises to
attempt to purchase licensed products. Minors used for the purpose of
compliance checks shall be supervised by law enforcement or other designated
personnel. Minors used for compliance checks shall not be guilty of illegal
possession when those items are obtained as a part of the compliance check. No
minor used in compliance checks shall attempt to use a false identification
misrepresenting the minor's age, and all minors lawfully engaged in a
compliance check shall answer all questions about the minor's age asked by the
licensee or his or her employee and shall produce any identification, if any
exists, for which he or she is asked. Violations will result in more frequent
checks. Data obtained from compliance checks shall be provided as soon as is
reasonably possible to the tobacco vendor that was the subject of such check
and to the City Council. Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance
checks authorized by state or federal laws for educational, research, or
training purposes, or required for the enforcement of a particular state or
federal law.
(Ord. 1148.16, passed 11-21-16; Am. Ord., passed --)
§ 112.11 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter:
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any licensed products to any minor.
   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any licensed product. This shall not
apply to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any licensed product.
   (D)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any licensed
product, and it shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to purchase
or otherwise obtain those items on behalf of a minor. It shall further be a
violation for any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a minor to illegally
purchase or otherwise obtain or use any licensed product. This shall not apply
to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (E)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false
form of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or
one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to
represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
   (F)   Smoking. Smoking shall not be permitted and no person shall smoke
within the indoor area of any establishment with a retail tobacco license.
Smoking for the purposes of sampling licensed products is prohibited.
   (G)   Distribution of samples prohibited. No person shall distribute samples
of any licensed product free of charge or at a nominal cost.
(Ord. 1148.16, passed 11-21-16)
§ 112.12 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco or tobacco
related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully recognized religious,
spiritual, or cultural ceremony. It shall be an affirmative defense to an
alleged violation of this chapter for a person to have reasonably relied on
proof of age as described by state law.
(Ord. 1148.16, passed 11-21-16)
§ 112.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   Notice. A person violating this chapter may be issued, either
personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the alleged violation and
that informs the alleged violator of his or her right to a hearing on the
matter. The citation shall provide notice that a hearing must be requested
within ten business days of receipt and that hearing rights shall be terminated
if a hearing is not promptly requested. The citation shall provide information
on how and where a hearing may be requested, including a contact address and
phone number.
      (2)   Hearings.
         (a)   Upon issuance of a citation, a person accused of violating this
chapter may request in writing a hearing on the matter. Hearing requests must
be made within ten business days of the issuance of the citation and delivered
to the City Clerk or other designated city officer. Failure to request a
hearing within ten business days of the issuance of the citation will terminate
the person's right to a hearing.
         (b)   The City Clerk or other designated city officer shall set the
time and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and place
shall be mailed or delivered to the accused violator at least ten business days
prior to the hearing.
      (3)   Hearing officer. The City Council shall designate a hearing
officer. The hearing officer must be an impartial employee of the city or an
impartial person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
      (4)   Decision. A decision shall be issued by the hearing officer within
ten business days. If the hearing officer determines that a violation of this
chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officer's reasons for
finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under division (B) of this
section, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the
city and the accused violator by in person delivery or mail as soon as
practicable. Likewise, if the hearing officer finds that no violation occurred
or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, those findings shall be recorded
and a copy provided to the city and the acquitted accused violator by in-person
delivery or by mail as soon as practicable. The decision of the hearing officer
is final.
      (5)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall
be filed in Swift County District Court within ten business days.
      (6)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   Licensees. Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or
whose employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an
administrative fine of $75 for a first violation; $200 for a second offense at
the same licensed premises within a 24-month period; and $250 for a third or
subsequent offense at the same location within a 24-month period. Upon a fourth
violation, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   Other individuals. Other individuals, other than minors regulated
by division (C)(3) of this section, found to be in violation of this chapter
shall be charged an administrative fine of $50.
      (3)   Minors. Minors found in unlawful possession of, or who unlawfully
purchase or attempt to purchase licensed products, shall be subject to an
administrative fine, or may be subject to tobacco-related education classes,
diversion programs, community services, or another penalty that the city
believes will be appropriate and effective. The administrative fine or other
penalty shall be established by the City Council upon consultation with
interested parties of the courts, educators, parents and children to determine
an appropriate penalty for minors in the city. This administrative fine or
other penalty may be established by ordinance and amended from time to time.
      (4)   Statutory penalties. If the administrative penalties authorized to
be imposed by M.S. § 461.12, as it may be amended from time to time, differ
from those established in this section, then the higher penalties shall
prevail.
   (C)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1148.16, passed 11-21-16)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Roller-Skating Rinks
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   License application
   
113.03   License fee and term
   
113.04   License issuance
 
   
113.99   Penalty
ROLLER-SKATING RINKS
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or maintain within the city a roller-skating rink
without having first obtained a license therefor.
('75 Code, § 15.201)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person operating or maintaining a roller-skating rink shall file with
the Clerk a written application designating the place of operation and the name
of the applicant.
('75 Code, § 15.202)
§ 113.03 LICENSE FEE AND TERM.
   (A)   Fee. The annual license fee for a roller-skating rink shall be as may
be adopted from time to time by Council resolution or ordinance, payable in
advance with the application, for each year or portion of a year.
('75 Code, § 15.203)
   (B)   Term. All licenses must be renewed annually and shall expire on March
31 each year.
('75 Code, § 15.205)
§ 113.04 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   Upon submission of the required application, the Council may in its
discretion authorize the issuance of a license. No license shall be issued
except as authorized by the Council.
('75 Code, § 15.204)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and penalized as provided in §
10.99.
('75 Code, §§ 15.04 and 15.206) (Ord. 1017.80, passed - -80)
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
114.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
114.04   License ineligibility
   
114.05   License suspension and revocation
   
114.06   Transferability
   
114.07   Registration
   
114.08   Prohibited activities
   
114.09   Exclusion by placard
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place for the purpose
of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering immediately upon sale the goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
HAWKER.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership, or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships, and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent, or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the City Hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place for the purpose
of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property, or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
§ 114.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise, or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold
by the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes
initial contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
114.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
(Am. Ord. 1116.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 114.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Ch.
329 as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a license for
the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are still required to register pursuant to §
114.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Clerk. All applications shall be signed by the
applicant. All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's full legal name;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like);
      (4)   The full address of the applicant's permanent residence;
      (5)   The telephone number of the applicant's permanent residence;
      (6)   The full legal name of any and all business operations owned,
managed, or operated by the applicant, or for which the applicant is an
employee or agent;
      (7)   The full address of the applicant's regular place of business (if
any);
      (8)   Any and all business-related telephone numbers of the applicant;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days);
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any requested county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form
of identification;
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information, and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the city's fee schedule as adopted from
time to time by a resolution passed by the City Council.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk, within two regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk
determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk shall inform the
applicant of the required necessary information which is missing. If the
application is complete, the City Clerk must order any investigation, including
background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the
application. Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete
application the City Clerk must issue the license unless there exist grounds
for denying the license under §
114.04, in which case the Clerk must deny the license. If the City Clerk denies
the license, the applicant must be notified in writing of the decision, the
reason for denial, and of the applicant's right to appeal the denial by
requesting, within 20 days of receiving the notice of rejection, a public
hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal within
20 days of the date of request. The decision of the City Council following the
public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals
for a writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Term of license. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be
valid for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted
under this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place when such activity is for the purpose of exercising that
person's state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech,
press, religion, and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the
person's exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fundraisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
(Am. Ord. 1116.05, passed 12-12-05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Such violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant;
   (E)   The applicant is determined to have a bad business reputation.
Evidence of a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the
existence of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better
Business Bureau, the Attorney General's Office, or other similar business or
consumer rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three such
complaints filed against the applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 114.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statements on the
application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made during the
course of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
114.04;
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each such authorized person's authority
to conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the
licensee whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten regular
business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with
the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall
be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated timeframe, a hearing shall be
scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.06 TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.07 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under §
114.03, shall be required to register with the city. Persons engaging in door-
to-door advocacy shall not be required to register. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as vehicles for
the dissemination of religious, political and other ideas. Registration shall
be made on the same form required for a license application, but no fee shall
be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City
Clerk shall issue to the registrant a certificate of registration as proof of
the registration. Certificates of registration shall be non-transferable.
(Am. Ord. 1116.05, passed 12-12-05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall conduct business in any
of the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in such a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person;
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or
otherwise conducting business in a manner a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating, or abusive.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors, or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient
Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface, or otherwise tamper with any
sign or placard under this section.
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 115: TAXI CABS
Section
   
115.01   License required
   
115.02   License application
   
115.03   License fee and term
   
115.04   Bond or insurance
   
115.05   License issuance
   
115.06   License transferability
   
115.07   Conditions of operation
   
115.08   Rates for service
   
115.09   License revocation
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of operating auto liveries or
taxicabs on the streets of the city without a license issued by the Clerk.
('75 Code, § 17.101)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to operate such business shall make application in
writing stating the place of business, and the type, make, body style, and year
of each vehicle to be operated as a taxicab or auto livery.
('75 Code, § 17.102)
§ 115.03 LICENSE FEE AND TERM.
   (A)   The license fee shall be as may be adopted from time to time by
Council resolution or ordinance.
('75 Code, § 17.103)
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued for a period of one year and shall expire on
April 1 each year.
('75 Code, § 17.106)
§ 115.04 BOND OR INSURANCE.
   No license shall be issued until the applicant shall file with the Clerk a
good and sufficient surety bond or certificate of insurance whereby each car or
motor vehicle shall be covered against loss, injury, or liability in the
following amounts: $25,000 for each passenger, and $50,000 for property damage.
Such bond or insurance shall provide for the giving of notice to the city of
the termination or cancellation of said policy or bond and every license issued
hereunder shall terminate upon the termination of said policy or bond.
('75 Code, § 17.104)
§ 115.05 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of the proper application and payment of the appropriate fees
the Clerk shall issue a license to the applicant.
('75 Code, § 17.105)
§ 115.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   Licenses are not transferable.
('75 Code, § 17.110)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.07 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a taxicab or auto livery unless he or she
possesses a chauffeur's license duly issued by the state, and unless he or she
submits to the City Council at such times as the Council may direct a
certificate of approval on inspection of the brakes and principal mechanical
operating parts of each motor vehicle operated by him or her. These
certificates shall be obtained from a reputable mechanic established in the
business of automobile repair and maintenance. Upon request of the Council,
succeeding certificates shall be issued by such inspection mechanics other than
those who issued preceding certificates, or by inspectors appointed by the
Council.
   (B)   No more than two passengers shall be carried in the front seat of any
taxicab or auto livery.
('75 Code, § 17.107)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.08 RATES FOR SERVICE.
   Each taxicab or auto livery shall charge such rates as shall be approved by
the Council from time to time.
('75 Code, § 17.108)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.09 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   Each license shall be subject to revocation by the Council upon 10 days'
written notice to the licensee. The licensee shall be given opportunity to show
cause why his or her license should not be revoked.
('75 Code, § 17.109)
CHAPTER 116: AUCTIONS
Section
   
116.01   Permit required; exceptions; display of permit
   
116.02   Permit application
   
116.03   Permit fee and duty; permit term
   
116.04   Duty to be paid daily; accountings
   
116.05   Permit approval procedure
   
116.06   Permit issuance or denial; appeal
   
116.07   Permit suspension
   
116.08   Notice to Mayor of upcoming sale; appointment of inspector
   
116.09   Truth in advertising; price tag requirement
   
116.10   Boosters and false bidding
   
116.11   Hours and days of sale
   
116.12   Business dissolution sales; fraud
   
116.13   Liability of owner and auctioneer
§ 116.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS; DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Excepting sales made under authority of law, no person, for him- or
herself or for another, shall sell or offer for sale at public auction any
stock or stocks of merchandise in whole or in part without first obtaining from
the Mayor a permit in writing to do so. The Mayor shall not issue a permit for
the sale or sales until an inventory of the stock or merchandise to be sold has
been submitted to him or her, said inventory to be detailed as to article and
retail price, and until the Mayor is satisfied that neither fraud nor deception
of any kind is contemplated or will be practiced and that neither the sale, the
reasons therefore, nor the goods to be sold have been or will thereafter be
fraudulently or falsely advertised or in any way whatsoever misrepresented as
far as the public auction is concerned. Said permit must be posted in a
conspicuous place where the sale is held.
('75 Code, § 18.101)
   (B)   No permit as herein provided shall be required for the sale of any
wagon, carriage, automobile, truck, mechanics, tools, used farm implements,
livestock, including game and poultry, dressed or undressed, vegetables,
fruits, melons, berries, flowers, or the sale of used household furniture and
effects when made by an individual citizen and not a dealer, nor for the sale
of real estate located within said city.
('75 Code, § 18.110)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.02 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Application for said permit shall be by verified petition stating the name
of the applicant, his or her residence, and the street and number of the
proposed place of sale. The application shall set forth in detail the goods to
be sold and what statements or representations are to be made or advertised as
to the same, the length of time for which the permit is desired, and, if the
applicant has been previously engaged in a like or similar business, shall
designate the places where the same was conducted, and the applicant shall
furnish the Mayor with such further evidence as shall be deemed necessary to
establish the truth of the statements made in said petition.
('75 Code, § 18.108)
§ 116.03 PERMIT FEE AND DUTY; PERMIT TERM.
   (A)   Fee and duty.
      (1)    Before a permit shall be issued, the applicant shall pay to the
Treasurer the sum as may be adopted from time to time by Council resolution or
ordinance as a license fee. In addition to the above-mentioned fee, there shall
be paid to the Treasurer for the use of the city by every auctioneer or the
owner of any goods, wares, and merchandise sold by auction, except household
goods which have been used as such, 10% of the gross receipts accruing from
said sale except in when the sale is made:
         (a)   By virtue of a chattel mortgage, a rule, order, or judgment of a
court, or some law of the state or the United States respecting the collection
of some tax or duty;
         (b)   In consequence of a general assignment of property or effects
for the benefit of creditors
         (c)   Of property belonging to the state or of the United States;
         (d)   By or on behalf of any executor or administrator; or
         (e)   For the purpose of closing up his or her business by or on
behalf of any merchant residing in the city who shall have paid the taxes
lawfully levied on his or her stock in trade to the city.
      (2)   Whenever the auctioneer or owners of the property shall buy
anything at said sale, the same duty shall be paid as if any other person were
the purchaser thereof and sales on credit shall be liable to duty as those made
for cash.
('75 Code, § 18.105)
   (B)   Term. Every permit contemplated by §
116.01 shall be issued for a definite period of time and the date and hour of
expiration shall be stated in the permit.
('75 Code, § 18.104)
§ 116.04 DUTY TO BE PAID DAILY; ACCOUNTINGS.
   The above-mentioned 10% of the gross sales shall be paid to the Treasurer
daily at or before 10:00 a.m. on the day following said sale, Sundays and legal
holidays excluded, and at the time of payment thereof, said auctioneer or owner
shall file with the Treasurer an itemized report, verified by affidavit,
stating the description and number of articles sold and the sale price of each
article; and until 10% of the gross sales has been paid to the Treasurer, all
funds received on auction sales within the city shall be kept separate and not
mingled with other funds.
('75 Code, § 18.106)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.05 PERMIT APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Inventory to be filed.
      (1)   The inventory required in §
116.01 shall be filed with the Mayor 60 days prior to the granting of the
permit, except where the sale is made:
         (a)   By virtue of a chattel mortgage, or of a rule, order, or
judgment of a court, or some law of the state or of the United States
respecting the collection of some tax or duties;
         (b)   In consequence of a general assignment of property or effects
for the benefit of creditors;
         (c)   Of property belonging to the state or of the United States; or
         (d)   By or on behalf of an executor or administrator.
      (2)   In any of the foregoing exceptions the Mayor may grant the permit
immediately after the filing of the inventory.
('75 Code, § 18.103)
   (B)   Investigation. The Mayor shall cause some suitable person to inspect,
investigate, and verify the inventories submitted to the Mayor of the stock or
stocks of merchandise and report to the Mayor whether or not the provisions of
this chapter as regards fraud or deception or fraudulent or false advertising
apply or are likely to apply to said stock or stocks of merchandise.
('75 Code, § 18.102)
§ 116.06 PERMIT ISSUANCE OR DENIAL; APPEAL.
   The Mayor shall inform the Council when any permit as herein provided has
been either issued or denied. In any case where a permit has been issued,
granted, or denied, the applicant or any citizen of the city may, prior to the
next regular meeting of the Council, and after the Mayor has informed the
Council of his or her action upon the application of the permit, file an appeal
to the Council, in writing, with the Clerk. The appeal shall set forth such
facts as may be necessary to an intelligent understanding of the issues. The
Council shall have the power to either grant or deny a permit. This section
shall be in conjunction with §
30.05.
('75 Code, § 18.109)
§ 116.07 PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   The Mayor is hereby vested with authority to temporarily suspend the
operation of the license or permit herein provided for whenever he or she may
believe that this code, any part thereof, or regulation made in pursuance
thereof is apt to be or is being violated, and thereupon forthwith appropriate
proceedings shall be instituted in county or district court in accordance with
this code and in the event that the proceedings shall terminate in favor of the
defendant, then, and in that event, the suspension of said permit shall be at
an end and the permit shall thereupon be restored and be in full force and
effect.
('75 Code, § 18.111)
§ 116.08 NOTICE TO MAYOR OF UPCOMING SALE; APPOINTMENT OF INSPECTOR.
   Whenever any sale at auction either under license or special permit shall be
about to commence, notice thereof shall be given to the Mayor of the city by
the person conducting the sale. The Mayor may cause some suitable person or
persons to attend such sale on behalf of the city. The person or persons so
appointed shall keep an accurate account of the goods sold at the sale each day
and the amounts realized on the sale. For that purpose those appointed shall
have access to the books and accounts of the auctioneer and shall be entitled
to inspect them at all times. Those appointed shall render to the city a daily
statement of the sales made on or before 10:00 a.m. of the succeeding business
day.
('75 Code, § 18.115)
§ 116.09 TRUTH IN ADVERTISING; PRICE TAG REQUIREMENT.
   Any person selling or offering for sale at public auction any goods, wares,
or merchandise under the provisions of this code shall in describing the same
be truthful with respect to the character, quality, kind, and description of
the same. Each article sold or offered for sale shall have a tag attached with
the retail price plainly marked thereon. Any statements as to the nature of
said goods made for the purpose of sale shall be considered as warranties, and
any breach of the same shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
('75 Code, § 18.112)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.10 BOOSTERS AND FALSE BIDDING.
   No person shall act and no auctioneer or owner shall employ any person as
bidder or what is commonly known as “caper,” “booster,” or “shiller” at any
such auction or place, or offer or make any false bid to buy or pretend to buy
any article sold or offered for sale at any public auction.
('75 Code, § 18.113)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.11 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   Sales at public auction of the stock of any person, firm, or corporation
shall be held on successive days, Sundays and legal holidays excepted, and
shall continue not more than 30 days, except by vote of the Council. No such
auction shall be held between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the
following day, or any day between December 1 and December 31.
('75 Code, § 18.114)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.12 BUSINESS DISSOLUTION SALES; FRAUD.
   A merchant conducting an auction for the purpose of closing out his or her
business shall add no merchandise to his or her stock for the purpose of the
auction. Any merchant making any addition to his or her stock for the purpose
of the auction prior to the filing of the inventory and in any case after the
filing of the inventory shall not be conducting a sale for the purpose of
closing out his or her business and shall be subject to the license fee herein
provided. The addition of any stock shall be deemed prima facie evidence of an
intent to defraud the city of the license fee.
('75 Code, § 18.116)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.13 LIABILITY OF OWNER AND AUCTIONEER.
   The obligation to comply with §§
116.01(A), and
116.03 through
116.05 shall devolve upon the owner of the goods offered for sale and the
auctioneer jointly and separately, and each shall be individually liable for
failure to comply with any of such provisions.
('75 Code, § 18.107)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 117: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
117.01   Purpose and findings
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Classification of sexually oriented businesses
Licensing
   
117.15   License or employee card required
   
117.16   Issuance of license or employee card
   
117.17   Fees
   
117.18   Inspection
   
117.19   Term; renewal
   
117.20   Suspensions
   
117.21   Revocation
   
117.22   Hearing, denial, revocation, and suspension; appeals
   
117.23   Transfer of license
Regulations
   
117.35   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
117.36   Hours of operation
   
117.37   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or
videos
   
117.38   Loitering and exterior lighting and monitoring requirements
   
117.39   Prohibited acts on sexually oriented business premises generally
   
117.40   Additional regulations concerning live public nudity
   
117.41   Regulation of dual purpose businesses
   
117.42   Scienter required to prove violation of business licensee liability
   
117.43   Applicability of chapter to existing businesses and employees
   
117.44   Sexually oriented business locations: measurements
   
117.45   Inapplicability of Minnesota Statute § 617.242
 
   
117.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances affecting health; unlicensed offensive trades or
businesses, see §
93.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 117.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of
any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly,
it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access
by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment to
the United States Constitution or the corresponding provisions of the Minnesota
Constitution, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor
effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material.
   (B)   Findings. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary effects of adult
uses presented in reports made available to the City Council as set forth in
the ordinance enacting this chapter, and on findings, interpretations, and
narrowing constructions incorporated in the cases described in the ordinance,
the City Council has made specific findings concerning the adverse secondary
effects of sexually oriented businesses and the need for additional
requirements for the operation of such businesses.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the words and phrases defined in the
sections hereunder, whether or not the terms are capitalized in the text of the
chapter, shall have the meanings therein respectively ascribed to them unless a
different meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-
producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, OR ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment that devotes 50% or more of its interior
sales or display space to the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of
any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations which characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
      (2)   The term ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, OR ADULT VIDEO STORE
shall also include a commercial establishment which regularly maintains one or
more “adult arcades.” Floor space shall be measured by dividing the floor space
where patrons or customers of the establishment are permitted where the primary
sales or displays are of materials described above by the total floor space
where patrons or customers of the establishment are permitted regardless of the
materials.
   ADULT CABERET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment which features persons who appear semi-nude.
Regularity of appearances are not required for an establishment to constitute
an adult cabaret; a single occasion of such appearance or appearances shall be
sufficient to cause the establishment to be classified as an adult cabaret.
   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, other photographic reproductions, or live
performances which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”; and which
advertises the availability of such material by means of a sign visible from
the public right-of-way, or by means of any on or off-premises advertising,
including but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets,
radio or television; or
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” are regularly
shown for any form of consideration.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the City of Benson or his or her
designee.
   CONTROLLING INTEREST. The power, directly or indirectly, to direct the
operation, management or policies of a business or entity, or to vote 20% or
more of any class of voting securities or ownership interests of a business.
The ownership, control, or power to vote 20% or more of any class of voting
securities or ownership interests of a business shall be presumed, subject to
rebuttal, to be the power to direct the management, operation or policies of
the business.
   DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON. The dominant or
principal theme of the object described by such phrase. For instance, when the
phase refers to films which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
upon the exhibition or description of “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are those whose dominant
or principal character and theme are the exhibition or description of
“specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”.
   DUAL PURPOSE BUSINESS. A commercial establishment that devotes at least 10%
of its interior sales or display space to the sale or rental, for any form of
consideration, of any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, digital
video discs, slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by
their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”;
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others; and which does not meet
the definition of ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE set
forth above. Floor space shall be measured by dividing the floor space where
patrons or customers of the establishment are permitted where the primary sales
or displays are of materials described above by the total floor space where
patrons or customers of the establishment are permitted regardless of the
materials.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, AND EMPLOYMENT. Describes and pertains to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business, on a full
time, part time, or contract basis, whether or not the person is denominated an
employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise. EMPLOYEE does not
include an independent contractor or a person working for an independent
contractor who performs any service on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises, or
for the rendition of services incidental to the business of the establishment
but not an integral part thereof, such as accounting or legal services.
   ESCORT. A person who, for compensation, agrees or offers to engage in any of
the following acts:
      (1)   Act as a social companion, guide, or date for another person;
      (2)   Privately model lingerie with the intention of and for the purpose
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customer;
      (3)   Privately disrobe for another person with the intention of
providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customer;
      (4)   Agree to come to a specified location for the purpose of disrobing
and for the purpose of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to
the customer;
      (5)   To perform a massage where one or more of the persons is nude,
semi-nude or in a state of nudity or for the purpose of providing sexual
stimulation or sexual gratification to the customer.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who, whether on or off the
licensed premises, furnishes, offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish
escorts, as defined herein, for compensation.
   ESTABLISH OR ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business; or
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business.
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   EXOTIC DANCE SERVICE. Any business or person who provides exotic dancers to
perform at a private residence, business, or other location (other than an
adult cabaret) within the city limits.
   EXOTIC DANCER. A male or female dancer that performs semi-nude or nude for
compensation.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business license. In case
of an employee, it shall mean the person in whose name the sexually oriented
business employee license has been issued.
   MASSAGE CENTER. A commercial business which allows its employees who do not
have a diploma or certificate of graduation from a school by the American
Massage Therapist Association or other similar reputable massage association,
and its employees have also not completed 100 hours of training in massage, and
who, for compensation, manipulate soft tissue including effleurage (stroking),
patrissage (kneading), tapotement (percussion), compression, vibration,
friction, (active/passive range of motion), Shiatsu, and acupressure, either by
hand, forearm, elbow, foot, or with mechanical appliances for the purpose of
body massage.
   MASSAGIST. A person that does not have a diploma or certificate of
graduation from a school approved by the American Massage Therapist Association
or other similar reputable massage association, and has not completed 100 hours
of training in massage, and who, for compensation, manipulates soft tissue
including effleurage (stroking), patrissage (kneading), tapotement
(percussion), compression, vibration, friction, (active/passive range of
motion), Shiatsu, and acupressure, either by hand, forearm, elbow, foot, or
with mechanical appliances for the purpose of body massage.
   NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female breast with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple and areola.
   OPERATE OR CAUSE TO OPERATE. To cause to function or to put or keep in a
state of doing business. “Operator” means any persons on the premises of a
sexually oriented business who is authorized to exercise overall operational
control of the business or who causes to function or who puts or keeps in
operation the business. A person may be found to be operating or causing to be
operated a sexually oriented business whether or not that person is an owner,
part owner, or licensee of the business.
   PERSON. Individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity.
   PROSTITUTE. A person who has been convicted of prostitution or prostitution
by massage, or who engages in activities, that, if prosecuted, would constitute
the criminal offense of prostitution or prostitution by massage under M.S. Ch.
609; provided, however, that a person shall not be considered a prostitute if
he or she is not currently engaging in activities, that, if prosecuted, would
constitute the criminal offense of prostitution or prostitution by massage
under M.S. Ch. 609; and if
      (1)   More than two years have elapsed since the date of the conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for such person’s last
conviction of prostitution or prostitution by massage, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction was for a misdemeanor offense; or
      (2)   More than five years have elapsed since the date of the conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for such person’s last
conviction of prostitution or prostitution by massage, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction was for a felony offense.
   REGULARLY FEATURES OR REGULARLY SHOWN. A consistent or substantial course of
conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing business.
   SEMI-NUDE OR STATE OF SEMI-NUDITY. A state of dress in which opaque clothing
covers no more than the genitals, anus, anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area,
vulva, and nipple and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of the
body covered by supporting straps or devices. This definition shall not include
any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel provided that
the areola and nipple are not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly appears in a
state of semi-nudity is provided for money or any form of consideration to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons. It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of
this chapter that a person appearing in a state of nudity or semi-nudity did so
in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any establishment that is an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel,
adult motion picture theater, massage center, exotic dance service, or semi-
nude model studio as defined in this section, as well as any other
establishment that regularly features or regularly shows any sexually oriented
entertainment activity, including any dual purpose business.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITY. The sale, rental, or exhibition
for any form of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines,
periodicals, or live performances which are characterized by an emphasis on the
exposure or display of specific sexual activity.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals, anus, and/or the female breast
areola or nipple.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Rape and sexual battery; sexual offenses affecting minors; offenses
concerning prostitution; offenses concerning disorderly places and obscenity;
operating places of prostitution, voyeurism; offenses concerning controlled
substances law; engaging in organized criminal activity relating to a sexually
oriented business, specifically money laundering; tax evasion; criminal
attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of the foregoing offenses; or
offenses in other jurisdictions that, if the acts would have been committed in
Minnesota would have constituted any of the foregoing offenses; for which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (2)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, including intercourse, oral
copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (2)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in division (1) above.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.  TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL of a
sexually oriented business shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities (including interests in a limited
liability company or partnership) or other ownership interests which constitute
a controlling interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar
means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   VALID PHOTOGRAPHIC ID. VALID PHOTOGRAPHIC ID refers to a driver’s license,
selective service card or other lawful federal or state issued photographic
identification, which, on its face, establishes the age and identity of the
bearer, and leaves no reasonable doubt as to the authenticity or correctness of
the identification. No form of identification mentioned above shall be accepted
as proof of age if it is expired, defaced, mutilated or altered. If the
identification submitted is a duplicate, the person shall submit additional
identification which contains the name, date of birth and photograph of the
person. In addition, an educational institution identification card, check
cashing identification card, or employee identification card shall not be
considered as a valid photographic ID.
   VIDEO. Includes image reproduction and display by videotape or any other
medium, such as digital video disk or compact disk, that produces moving or
still images on a screen, wall, or other similar display.
   VIEWING ROOM. Shall mean the room, booth, or area where a patron of sexually
oriented business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film,
videocassette, or other video or visual production or reproduction.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.03 CLASSIFICATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   Sexually oriented businesses shall be classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades, adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, adult video
stores;
   (B)   Adult cabarets;
   (C)   Adult motels;
   (D)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (E)   Escort agencies;
   (F)   Exotic dance services;
   (G)   Massage centers;
   (H)   Dual purpose businesses;
   (I)   Other sexually oriented businesses.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
LICENSING
§ 117.15 LICENSE OR EMPLOYEE CARD REQUIRED.
   (A)   Sexually oriented business license.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented
business in the City of Benson without a valid sexually oriented business
license. Separate sexually oriented business licenses shall be required for
each place of business of an operator.
      (2)   (a)   Application form. An applicant for a sexually oriented
business license or a sexually oriented business employee license shall file in
person at the office of the City Clerk a completed application made on a form
provided by the City of Benson. The application shall be signed by the
applicant. An application shall be considered complete when it contains the
following information and is accompanied by all the documents required by this
section:
            1.   The applicant’s full true name and any other names used in the
preceding five years;
            2.   Current home address and, if desired by the applicant, another
mailing address of the applicant;
            3.   Written proof of age, in the form of a valid photographic ID;
            4.   The business name, location, legal description, mailing
address and phone number of the sexually oriented business;
            5.   The name and business address of the statutory agent or other
agent authorized to receive service of process;
            6.   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted or has
pled guilty or no contest to a specified criminal activity as defined in this
chapter, and if so, the specified criminal activity involved, including the
date, place, and jurisdiction of each as well as the dates of conviction and
release from confinement, where applicable; and
            7.   A statement whether the applicant, or any entity in which the
applicant owns a controlling interest, has had a license or permit to operate a
sexually oriented business or to be an employee of a sexually oriented business
issued by the United States, any state, or by any political subdivision of any
state, authorized to issue permits or licenses, revoked within two years prior
to the application, or been convicted or had a judgment of court rendered
against him involving violation of sexually oriented business ordinances by
this or any other state or local government or by the United States within one
year prior to the application.
         (b)   The information provided pursuant to division (A)(2)(a)1.
through 7. of this section shall be supplemented in writing by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the City Clerk within ten working days of a change
of circumstances which would render the information originally submitted false
or incomplete.
      (3)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants who are
required to comply with §§
117.36 and
117.40 of this chapter shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of those
sections. A valid certificate of occupancy, lease agreement or proof of
ownership, articles of incorporation or organization, operating agreement, or
other instruments indicating the true direct and indirect ownership of the
applicant, beneficial or otherwise, evidence of measurement from protected
activities, will also be required when making application.
      (4)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he or she shall sign the application for a license as applicant.
If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each officer, director, general partner or other person who will
participate directly in decisions relating to management and control of the
business shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant
must be qualified under §
117.16 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted.
   (B)   Sexually oriented business employee card.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow any employee to engage in employment requiring a sexually
oriented business employee card unless such employee is in possession of a
sexually oriented business employee card issued under the authority of this
chapter. The license holder shall have such person obtain such a card prior to
engaging in employment for which a permit is required by this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an employee, as defined
in this chapter, of a sexually oriented business, or for an employee of a dual
purpose business who engages in the activities described in §
117.40 of this chapter, in the city without a valid sexually oriented business
employee card.
      (3)   (a)   An applicant for a sexually oriented business employee card
shall file in person at the office of the City Clerk a completed application
made on a form provided by the City Clerk. The application shall be signed by
the applicant. An application shall be considered complete when it contains the
following information:
            1.   The applicants full true name and any other names used in the
preceding five years;
            2.   Current home address and, if desired by the applicant, another
mailing address of the applicant;
            3.   Written proof of age, in the form of valid photographic I.D.;
            4.   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted or has
pled guilty or no contest to a specified criminal activity as defined in this
chapter, and if so, the specified criminal activity involved, including the
date, place, and jurisdiction of each as well as the dates of conviction and
release from confinement, where applicable; and
            5.   A statement whether the applicant has had a license, permit or
card to be an employee of a sexually oriented business issued by the United
States, any state, or by any political subdivision of any state, authorized to
issue permits or licenses, revoked within two years prior to the application,
or been convicted or had a judgment of court rendered against him involving
violation of sexually oriented business ordinances by this or any other state
or local government or by the United States within one year prior to the
application;
         (b)   The information provided pursuant to division (B)(3)(a)1.
through 5. of this section shall be supplemented in writing by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the City Clerk within ten working days of a change
of circumstances which would render the information originally submitted false
or incomplete.
   (C)   Fingerprinting. All applicants for licenses or cards under this
chapter shall be fingerprinted.
   (D)   Confidentiality of information. The information provided by an
applicant in connection with an application for a license or card under this
chapter shall be maintained pursuant to the requirements and regulations set
forth in the Government Data Practices Act, M.S. Ch. 13, as amended or as may
otherwise be required by governing law or court order.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.16 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE OR EMPLOYEE CARD.
   (A)   Sexually oriented business license.
      (1)   Within 30 days after the filing of a completed application under §
117.15 for a sexually oriented business license, the Planning Commission will
review the application and make recommendation to the City Council, and the
City Council shall then either approve the application or shall issue a written
denial of the application. Each person having a controlling interest in any
entity applying for a sexually oriented business license shall be considered an
applicant, and each such person must meet the requirements for the approval of
the issuance of the license to the entity. The City Council shall approve the
issuance of a license unless one or more of the following is found to be true:
         (a)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age;
         (b)   An applicant has failed to provide information as required by §
117.15 for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
         (c)   Any taxes, fees or charges due to the city by the applicant or
his or her business have not been paid;
         (d)   An applicant has been shown to have committed a violation of §
117.18(A), §
117.21(B), §
117.39(A),(B), or (C) of this chapter within the previous year;
         (e)   The sexually oriented business premises are not in compliance
with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter or are not in
compliance with location requirements established in the applicable zoning
regulations;
         (f)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
activity, as defined in this chapter;
         (g)   An applicant, or the entity in which an applicant has a
controlling interest, is not the owner of the premises or the tenant under a
bona fide written lease therefor;
         (h)   An applicant, or an entity in which an applicant has a
controlling interest, has had a license or permit to operate an sexually
oriented business issued by the United States, any state, or by any political
subdivision of a state, authorized to issue permits or licenses, revoked within
two years prior to the application, or been convicted or had a judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction rendered against him involving violation of
sexually oriented business ordinances by this or any other state or local
government or by the United States for two years prior to the application;
         (i)   Any applicant is a person interposed for another person who does
not meet the requirements for the issuance of a license. A person is considered
an interposed person if such person is subsidized, financed or employed by an
applicant to operate a sexually oriented business without disclosing the true
and beneficial ownership of the business; or
         (j)   An applicant has any outstanding warrants for arrest for any
crime.
      (2)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to
the licensee(s), the expiration date, and the address of the sexually oriented
business. The sexually oriented business license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so
that it may be easily read at any time or in the case of a dual purpose
business, the sexually oriented business license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in the area of the adult entertainment materials.
   (B)   (1)   Sexually oriented business employee card. Within 30 days after
the filing of a completed application under §
117.15 for a sexually oriented business employee card and the payment of a non-
refundable application fee, the Planning Commission will review the application
and make recommendation to City Council, and the City Council shall then either
approve the application or shall issue a written denial of the application. The
City Council shall approve the issuance of a card unless one or more of the
following is found to be true:
         (a)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age;
         (b)   An applicant has failed to provide information as required by §
117.15;
         (c)   For issuance of a card or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
         (d)   An applicant has been shown to have committed a violation of §
117.18(A), §
117.21(B), §
117.39(A), (B) or (C) of this chapter within the previous year;
         (e)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
activity, as defined in this chapter;
         (f)   An applicant has had a card, license or permit to operate a
sexually oriented business or to be an employee of a sexually oriented business
issued by the United States, any state, or by any political subdivision of a
state, authorized to issue cards, permits or licenses, revoked within two years
prior to the application, or been convicted or had a judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction rendered against him involving violation of sexually
oriented business ordinances by this or any other state or local government or
by the United States for two years prior to the application; or
         (g)   An applicant has any outstanding warrants for arrest for any
crime.
      (2)   An employee card issued pursuant to this section shall contain the
card holder’s photograph, full name, date of birth, race, sex and fingerprint.
A sexually oriented business employee shall keep the employee’s card on his or
her person or on the premises where the card holder is then working or
performing and shall produce such card for inspection upon request by a law
enforcement officer or other city official performing functions connected with
the enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Issuance of license or card. After any application for a license under
this chapter has been approved, it shall be submitted to the City Clerk, who
shall forthwith issue and sign the license or card upon payment of the
prescribed fee. Any license for a sexually oriented business shall be
restricted to the single location described in the application; that is, each
location for a sexually oriented business must have a separate license. After
any application for a sexually oriented business employee card under this
chapter has been approved, the City Clerk shall issue the card. A sexually
oriented business employee card shall be good and valid for use on the premises
of any sexually oriented business, provided that the licensee has notified the
city of the name and address of the sexually oriented business employee card
holder within five days of the hire date.
   (D)   Effect of failure to act. The failure of the City Council to act on an
application within the time set forth in this section shall be deemed a denial
of the application for a license or card, and shall be deemed to be the
issuance of a written notice of intent to deny the license or card.
   (E)   Appeal from notice of intent to deny. Upon issuance or deemed issuance
of a written notice of intent to deny a license or card, the applicant may
appeal the denial to the Swift County, Minnesota, District Court by making a
written request for appeal to the City Clerk within ten days after issuance or
deemed issuance of the written notice of intent to deny the license or card.
The applicant’s temporary license or card, if any, shall continue in effect
during such ten-day period. Upon timely appeal, the applicant’s temporary
license or card, if any, shall continue in effect until the Swift County,
Minnesota, District Court has acted on the applicant’s appeal or the applicant
has withdrawn his or her appeal. The only issue on the appeal shall be whether
the applicant meets the criteria for issuance of the license or card in
question; the Swift County, Minnesota, District Court shall not have the
authority to waive any of the requirements for the license or card in question.
   (F)   Temporary sexually oriented business employee card. The temporary
sexually oriented business employee card issued pursuant to this section shall
state on its face an expiration date 45 days after its date of issuance;
provided, however, that, if the employee’s card application or appeal from a
denial of a card or card renewal is continuing at the end of each successive
45-day period, at the request of the applicant the City Clerk shall issue a
renewal temporary card, which shall expire 45 days after its issuance.
Notwithstanding the stated 45-day expiration date, the temporary card shall
expire upon either the issuance of a permanent card, the withdrawal of any
appeal from the denial of issuance of a card, or the termination of any appeal
of the denial of issuance of a card. Upon the denial of the issuance of the
card (if not appealed), or the unsuccessful or withdrawal of appeal of the
denial of issuance of the card, the applicant shall immediately return the
temporary card to the City Clerk. It shall be unlawful for any applicant to
fail to return the temporary card to the City Clerk within three business days
after the denial of the issuance of the card (if not appealed), or the
unsuccessful or withdrawal of appeal of the denial of issuance of the card.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.17 FEES.
   (A)   Sexually oriented business license. The annual fee for the issuance or
renewal of a sexually oriented business license shall be determined by the City
Council and set by resolution based on the cost of administering and regulating
sexually oriented businesses.
   (B)   Sexually oriented business employee card. The fee for the application
for issuance or renewal of a sexually oriented business employee card shall be
determined by the City Council and set by resolution based on the cost of
administering and regulating employees of sexually oriented businesses.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.18 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees
shall permit officers or agents of the city to inspect the business premises
for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the specific regulations of this
chapter, during those times when the sexually oriented business is occupied by
patrons or is open for business. This section shall be narrowly construed by
the city to authorize reasonable inspections of the licensed premises pursuant
to this chapter, but not to authorize a harassing or excessive pattern of
inspections.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.19 TERM; RENEWAL.
   (A)   Sexually oriented business license.
      (1)   A sexually oriented business license issued under this chapter
shall be dated from the effective date as shown on the license and be valid for
one year from the date of issuance, unless sooner suspended or revoked.
Application for the renewal of such a license shall be filed in the manner
provided by this chapter for the initial license on or before 60 days prior to
the expiration date as shown on the existing license. The renewal license will
be dated from the date of expiration of the existing license.
      (2)   The City Council shall approve or deny the renewal within 30 days
after receipt of the completed renewal application. If approved, the renewal
license shall be issued as provided in §
117.16. If denied, the City Council shall issue a written notice of intent to
deny the renewal application in the same manner as for the denial of an initial
license application, and the appeal rights and any rights to continue operating
set forth in §
117.16 shall apply to such renewal application. The failure of the City Council
to act on an application within the time set forth in this section shall be
deemed a denial of the application for a license or card, and shall be deemed
to be the issuance of a written notice of intent to deny the license or card
application.
      (3)   If a licensee fails to complete its renewal application within the
time set forth in this section, its application shall be treated as a new
application under §§
117.15 and
117.16 hereof, but the late filing shall not affect the expiration of the
previous license; that is, if the license renewal application has not been
acted upon prior to the expiration of the existing license, the existing
license shall expire, and the business shall not be entitled to operate as a
sexually oriented business unless and until a new license is issued.
   (B)   Sexually oriented business employee card.
      (1)   A sexually oriented business employee card issued under this
chapter shall be dated from the effective date as shown on the card and be
valid for two years from the date of issuance, unless sooner suspended or
revoked. Application for the renewal of such a card shall be filed in the
manner provided by this chapter for the initial card on or before 60 days prior
to the expiration date as shown on the existing card. The renewal card will be
dated from the date of expiration of the existing card.
      (2)   The City Council shall approve or deny the renewal within 30 days
after receipt of the completed renewal application. If approved, the renewal
card shall be issued as provided in §
117.16. If denied, the City Council shall issue a written notice of intent to
deny the renewal application in the same manner as for the denial of an initial
card application, and the appeal rights and any rights to continue operating
set forth in §
117.16 shall apply to such renewal application. The failure of the City Council
to act on an application within the time set forth in this section shall be
deemed a denial of the application for a license or card, and shall be deemed
to be the issuance of a written notice of intent to deny the license or card
applied for.
      (3)   If a card holder fails to complete his or her renewal application
within the time set forth in this section, his or her application shall be
treated as a new application under §§
117.15 and
117.16 hereof, but the late filing shall not affect the expiration of the
previous card; that is, if the card renewal application has not been acted upon
prior to the expiration of the existing card, the existing card shall expire,
and the person shall not be entitled to be employed by a sexually oriented
business (or in certain operations of a dual purpose business, as the case may
be), unless and until a new card is issued.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.20 SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The following shall be the causes for the suspension of a sexually
oriented business license.
      (1)   If any applicant who possessed the qualifications for the license
at the time of issuance of the license fails to maintain such qualifications
during the licensed year.
      (2)    If there was any misstatement or suppression of fact in the
application for the license.
      (3)    If the license was granted to any person who is or has been
engaged in a sexually oriented business with a person whose application for a
license has been denied or whose license has been revoked.
      (4)   If the license was issued to an interposed person.
      (5)   If the licensee has violated any section of this chapter.
      (6)   If any sexually oriented business licensee allows any person to
consume any intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor on the licensed premises or
on any parking lot or open or closed space within or contiguous to the licensed
premises.
      (7)   Violation of any controlled, dangerous substance law on the
premises of the business holding the sexually oriented business license.
      (8)   Violation of any obscenity law on the premises of the sexually
oriented business.
      (9)   If the licensee knowingly permits an employee to violate any
section of this chapter on the licensed premises.
   (B)   The following shall be the causes for the suspension of a sexually
oriented business employee card.
      (1)   If any applicant who possessed the qualifications for the card at
the time of issuance of the license fails to maintain such qualifications
during the term of the card.
      (2)   If there was any misstatement or suppression of fact in the
application for the card.
      (3)   If the card holder has violated any section of this chapter.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend
the license or card in question for a period not to exceed six months if the
City Council finds that probable cause exists to believe that grounds exist for
the suspension or revocation of a sexually oriented business license or a
sexually oriented business employee card. The licensee or card holder shall
have ten days following the issuance of the letter of intent to suspend the
license or card within which to appeal the suspension to the Swift County,
Minnesota District Court. The appeal shall be perfected by making a written
request for appeal to the City Clerk. If no appeal is perfected within such
time, the license or card holder shall be suspended in accordance with the
written letter of intent to suspend the license or card. If the licensee or
card holder perfects an appeal, no suspension shall take effect until after the
Swift County, Minnesota District Court has acted on the appeal or the appeal
has been withdrawn.
   (D)   No person whose sexually oriented business license or sexually
oriented business employee card has been suspended shall operate a sexually
oriented business or be employed in a sexually oriented business during the
period of such suspension.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.21 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall issue a letter of intent to revoke a sexually
oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee card if the
City Council finds that a cause of suspension in §
117.20 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall issue a letter of intent to revoke a sexually
oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee card if the
City Council determines that:
      (1)   The licensee or card holder has knowingly given false information
in the application for the sexually oriented business license or employee card;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the license was suspended, or a card holder was employed
by a sexually oriented business or in the sexually oriented activity area of a
dual purpose business during a period when the card holder’s sexually oriented
business employee card was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has knowingly allowed any “specified sexual activity” to
occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   The licensee or card holder has failed to maintain any
qualification required for initial issuance or renewal of the license.
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
   (D)   Nature of revocation. When, after the notice and hearing procedure
described in §
117.22, a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business
employee card is revoked, the revocation shall continue for two years and the
licensee or card holder shall not be issued a sexually oriented business
license or sexually oriented business employee card for two years from the date
revocation becomes effective, provided that, if the conditions of §
117.22(I) are met, a provisional license or card will be granted pursuant to
that section. No person whose sexually oriented business license or sexually
oriented business employee card has been revoked shall operate a sexually
oriented business or be employed in a sexually oriented business, unless and
until a new sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business
employee card has been issued to such person pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.22 HEARING; DENIAL; REVOCATION; AND SUSPENSION; APPEAL.
   (A)   Any notice or letter of intent issued under this chapter for the
denial, suspension, or revocation of a license under this chapter shall be in
writing, shall be addressed to the applicant, licensee or card holder
(respondent), shall set forth the grounds therefor, and shall be delivered by
personal delivery, or by certified mail. The notification shall be directed to
the most current business address or other mailing address on file with the
city for the respondent.
   (B)   In hearings of the City Council which finally result in withholding
the issuance of a license or in suspending or revoking a license, the City
Council shall assess the costs of the hearing to the applicant or licensee. The
costs are recoverable by the City Council in any appellate proceeding
instituted by the applicant or licensee or in any other appropriate judicial
proceeding.
   (C)   An applicant or licensee who is aggrieved by a decision of the City
Council to withhold, suspend or revoke his or her license may, within ten days
of the notification of the decision, or within ten days of the deemed action of
the City Council, may seek appeal to the district court having jurisdiction
over his place of business, and on such appeal, the trial shall be de novo.
Upon the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain, or
otherwise enjoin the city’s enforcement of the denial, suspension, or
revocation, the city shall immediately issue the aggrieved party a provisional
license. The provisional license shall allow the aggrieved party to continue
operation of the sexually oriented business or to continue employment as a
sexually oriented business employee and will expire upon the court’s entry of a
judgment on the aggrieved party’s appeal or other action to restrain or
otherwise enjoin the city’s enforcement.
   (D)   Sexually oriented businesses or sexually oriented business employees
operating or working under temporary cards or licenses, provisional cards or
licenses, or de facto temporary cards or licenses shall be subject to the
provisions of §§
117.23,
117.35,
117.36,
117.37,
117.39 and
117.40 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.23 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, transfer
ownership or control or permit the transfer of ownership or control of the
licensee, either voluntarily or by operation of law, or operate a sexually
oriented business under the authority of a license at any place other than the
address designated in the sexually oriented business license application.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
Penalty, see § 117.99
REGULATIONS
§ 117.35 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A person commits a misdemeanor if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business in any zoning district other than
industrial as defined and described in
Chapter 154 of this code or laws amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within 750 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      (2)   A public or private educational facility including but not limited
to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities, school includes the school grounds, but not include facilities
used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a school;
      (3)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in
Chapter 154 of this code or laws amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto;
      (4)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities, including but not limited to a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pools, reservoir, athletic field,
basketball or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas;
      (5)   The property line of a lot devoted to residential use as defined in
Chapter 154 of this code or laws amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto;
      (6)   An entertainment business which is oriented primarily towards
children or family entertainment; or
      (7)    Another business that sells or dispenses intoxicating liquor or
3.2% malt liquor.
   (C)   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually oriented business within 750 feet of another sexually
oriented business.
   (D)   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or the increase
of floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure, or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
   (E)   For the purpose of division (B) of this section, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part
of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in division (B). Presence of a
city, county or other political subdivision boundary shall be irrelevant for
purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements of this section.
   (F)   For purposes of division (C) of this section, the distance between any
two sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to the intervening structures or objects or political boundaries, from
the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located.
   (G)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on, January 1, 2010,
that is in violation of division (A) through (F) of this section shall be
deemed a nonconforming use. The nonconforming use will be permitted to continue
for a period not to exceed one year, unless sooner terminated for any reason or
voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. Such nonconforming
uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended, or altered except that the use
may be changed to a conforming use. If two or more sexually oriented businesses
are within 750 feet of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the
sexually oriented business which was first established and continually
operating at a particular location is the conforming use and the later
established business(es) is/are nonconforming.
   (H)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a use listed in division
(B) of this section within 750 feet of the sexually oriented business. This
provision applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply
when an application for a license is submitted after a license has expired or
been revoked.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.36 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business between
1:00 a.m. until 8:00 a.m. weekdays and Saturdays, and from the hours of 1:00
a.m. to 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.37 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, or other video reproduction characterized by an emphasis on the
display of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” shall
comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall
contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all manager’s
stations, viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, video cameras and monitors
installed for monitoring purposes and restrooms, and shall designate all
portions of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted. Restrooms
shall not contain video reproduction equipment. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or
architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram shall be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn
to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The City Council may waive the foregoing diagram
for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant or acknowledged by the applicant before a notary.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station or viewing room may be made without the prior approval of the City
Council.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section.
      (5)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than one foot candle as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no sexual activity occurs in or on the licensed
premises.
      (7)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that not more than one person is present in a
viewing room at any time. No person shall enter a viewing room that is occupied
by another person.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no openings of any kind exist between viewing
rooms. No person shall make an attempt to make an opening of any kind between
viewing rooms.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the operator, or of any employee who
discovers two or more patrons in a viewing room or discovers any person making
or attempting to make an opening of any kind between viewing rooms, to
immediately escort such persons from the premises.
      (10)   It shall be the duty of the operator, or of any employee, who
discovers an opening of any kind between viewing rooms to immediately secure
such rooms, and prevent entry into them by any patron until such time as the
wall between the rooms has been repaired to remove the opening. Removal and
repairing openings between viewing rooms shall be in a manner that is as
structurally substantial as the original wall construction.
      (11)   It shall be the duty of the operator, at least once each business
day, to inspect the walls between viewing rooms for openings of any kind,
documented by appropriate logs.
      (12)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         (a)   That no loitering is permitted in viewing rooms;
         (b)   That the occupancy of viewing rooms is limited to one person;
         (c)   That sexual activity on the premises is prohibited;
         (d)   That the making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited;
         (e)   That violators will be required to leave the premises; and
         (f)   That violations of this section are unlawful.
      (13)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that floor
coverings in viewing rooms are nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no
rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that all wall
surfaces and seating surfaces in viewing rooms are constructed of or
permanently covered by nonporous easily cleanable material.
      (15)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that premises are
clean and sanitary. Such duty shall be fulfilled if the operator complies with
the following cleaning procedures.
         (a)   The operator shall maintain a regular cleaning schedule of at
least two cleanings per day, documented by appropriate logs.
         (b)   The operator shall provide an employee to check all areas for
garbage, trash, body fluids and excrement and to remove and clean all areas
with a disinfectant. All solid waste generated by the business shall be
collected from the premises for disposal at a lawful solid waste disposal
facility at least twice each week. Prior to collection solid waste shall be
stored in a manner that prevents access by animals or members of the public and
which will not facilitate the creation of a health nuisance.
         (c)    Thorough cleaning of the entire interior of any room providing
patron privacy shall be done using a disinfectant. Cleaning shall include
floors, walls, doors, seating, monitors, video cameras, and windows and other
surfaces.
      (16)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. A manager’s
station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. If the premises has two
or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of the premises shall
be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at
least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in this paragraph must
be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station. It is the duty of the
operator to ensure that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each
manager’s station at all times that any patron is on the premises. It shall be
the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of any employees
present on the premises, to ensure that the view area specified in this
paragraph remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains, walls, merchandise,
display racks or other materials or enclosures at all times that any patron is
present on the premises.
      (17)   It shall be the duty of the operator or manager of the business to
ensure that no sexually oriented entertainment activity or visual depictions
characterized by an emphasis on actual “specified anatomical areas” or
“specified sexual activities” are visible from a public right of way adjacent
to the establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.38 LOITERING AND EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to: (1) post conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is permitted on the
premises; (2) designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on such property by visually inspecting such property at least once
every 90 minutes or inspecting such property by use of video cameras and
monitors; and (3) provide lighting of the exterior premises to provide for
visual inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. If used, video
cameras and monitors shall operate continuously at all times that the premises
are open for business. The monitors shall be installed within a manager’s
station.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.39 PROHIBITED ACTS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS PREMISES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Generally. No person holding a sexually oriented business license, and
no employee of any such person, shall do or permit any of the following acts to
be done on or about the licensed premises:
      (1)   Serve or allow on the premises of a sexually oriented business, any
person under the age of 18 years, unless such person submits a valid
photographic I.D. which, on its face, establishes the age of the person as 18
years or older, and there is no reasonable doubt as to the authenticity or
correctness of the identification; provided, however, that the prohibition of
this §
117.39(A)(1) shall apply only to the partitioned area for sexually oriented
activity of a dual purpose business;
      (2)   Intentionally entice, aid or permit any person under the age of 18
years to visit or loiter in or about any sexually oriented business; provided,
however, that the prohibition of this §
117.39(A)(2) shall apply only to the partitioned area for sexually oriented
activity of a dual purpose business;
      (3)   Permit any prostitute to frequent the licensed premises or to
solicit patrons for prostitution on the licensed premises;
      (4)   Intentionally conduct illegal gambling as defined by law, on the
premises described in the application for the license;
      (5)   Fail to keep the premises clean and sanitary, including any parking
lot, sidewalk, vacant lot, or open or closed space within or contiguous to the
licensed premises which is under the control of the permit holder by lease,
ownership, or otherwise; or
      (6)   Illegally distribute, sell, offer for sale, possess or permit the
consumption or distribution on or about the licensed premises of any kind or
type of narcotics or habit-forming drug.
   (B)   Prohibition on liquor.
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses shall not sell or dispense
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor nor shall the sexually orientated
business be located in a building or on a premise that contains a business that
sells or dispenses intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor.
      (2)   The sale and consumption of alcohol is prohibited on the premises
of a sexually orientated business, including, but not limited to, any parking
areas or lots that are owned or leased by the adult establishment or its owner,
or used by patrons when they are at the sexually orientated business.
      (3)   No sexually orientated business may be operated in a building or
structure lying immediately adjacent to, or having a common wall with, a
business that sells or dispenses intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor.
   (C)   Violation of this section by any sexually oriented business licensee,
agent, associate, employee, representative or servant shall be considered the
licensee’s act for the purposes of suspension or revocation of a license.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the issuance of a license by way of renewal, the Chief
of Police or the city may request revocation or suspension of such license as
prescribed by this chapter, for violations of this section occurring during the
license period immediately preceding the issuance of such license.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.40 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING LIVE PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a patron, employee, or any
other person knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, to
appear in a state of nudity, regardless of whether such public nudity is
expressive in nature.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person, knowingly or
intentionally, in a sexually oriented business to appear in a semi-nude
condition unless the person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at
least six feet from any patron or customer and on a permanent immovable stage
at least 18 inches from the floor.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any employee of a sexually
oriented business, while semi-nude, to knowingly or intentionally touch a
customer or the clothing of a customer.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to knowingly or
intentionally touch an employee of a sexually oriented business or such
employee’s clothing or costume, while such employee is semi-nude.
   (E)   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the Chief of Police and
summarizing the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C), and (D) of this section,
shall be posted near the entrance of the sexually oriented business in such a
manner as to be clearly visible to patrons upon entry. It shall be a violation
of this chapter for an operator to operate a sexually oriented business at any
time when the required sign is not posted and clearly visible to patrons
entering the business.
   (F)   The interior of any business that regularly features persons who
appear in a state of semi-nudity shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station or from a hallway
accessible to all patrons to all places (and all parts of any room) where
patrons are permitted access, excluding restrooms, for any purpose. In any
business that regularly features persons who appear in a state of semi-nudity,
no separate room, other than a restroom, where any patron is allowed access for
any purpose, shall have any door that precludes viewing of all parts of any
such room from a manager’s station or a hallway to which all patrons are
permitted access. A manager’s station as described in the preceding sentences
shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The view required in this
paragraph must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station or the
hallway to all parts of the room in question. It is the duty of the operator to
ensure that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s
station at all times that any patron is on the premises. It shall be the duty
of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of any employees present on the
premises, to ensure that the view area specified in this paragraph remains
unobstructed by any doors, curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other
materials or enclosures at all times that any patron is present on the
premises. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to operate a
business in violation of this paragraph.
   (G)   It is unlawful for a sexually oriented business to knowingly violate
the preceding regulations or to knowingly allow an employee or any other person
to violate the preceding regulations.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.41 REGULATION OF DUAL PURPOSE BUSINESSES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any dual purpose business to fail
to comply with the following regulations.
   (A)   The operator shall maintain a physical barrier between any sexually
oriented entertainment activity and other activity of the business. The barrier
shall consist of a permanent opaque wall or room divider, or a separate room.
The barrier will be a minimum of six feet high. The entrance to the separate
sexually oriented entertainment activity area will be configured as to not
allow a patron of the business below the age of 18 years to view the contents
of the sexually oriented entertainment activity area from outside such area.
   (B)   The area containing sexually oriented entertainment activity shall be
clearly marked by signs, with bold-face lettering in type or handwriting no
less than the equivalent of 70 point type, stating that no persons under the
age of 18 are allowed in the area. Such sign shall be not less than two feet
wide and one foot high, in letters sharply contrasting in color with the
background of the sign.
   (C)   The operator shall insure that only employees holding sexually
oriented business employee cards and qualified patrons are permitted entry into
the separate sexually oriented entertainment area; provided, however, that bona
fide maintenance or cleaning employees may be permitted entry into such area to
perform their maintenance or cleaning responsibilities.
   (D)   Any employee of a dual purpose business will be required to have a
sexually oriented business employee card if the employee has any duties
relating to the sale, rental, restocking, checking in and out of sexually
oriented entertainment materials, or taking inventory of any sexually oriented
entertainment material.
   (E)   The operator shall not advertise or display promotional materials for
any of the materials or activities available in the partitioned sexually
oriented activities section on the exterior of the premises or within the
interior of the premises not partitioned for sexually oriented entertainment
material.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.42 SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LICENSEE LIABILITY.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter,
an act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee’s license shall be imputed to the sexually oriented business
licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or for purposes
of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if an officer, director, or
general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or controlled the
operation of the business premises, knowingly allowed such act to occur on the
premises, or if an officer, director, or general partner, or a person who
managed, supervised, or controlled the operation of the business premises
reasonably should have known that such act was occurring or likely to occur on
the premises.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.43 APPLICABILITY OF ORDINANCE TO EXISTING BUSINESSES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the activities of all
sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees described
herein, whether such businesses or activities were established or commenced
before, on, or after the effective date of this chapter. As of the effective
date of this enacted chapter, any person or business who is engaged in a
business or activity requiring a sexually oriented business license or a
sexually oriented business employee card under this chapter shall apply for the
appropriate license or card within 30 days after the effective date of this
enacted chapter. If such person does not apply for the applicable license or
card within such 30-day period, the person or business shall not be entitled to
operate a sexually oriented business or be an employee of a sexually oriented
business (or an employee of a dual purpose business required to hold a sexually
oriented business employee card) after the expiration of such 30-day period,
and such person shall be subject to prosecution or other action for violation
of this chapter. During the pendency of any application for a sexually oriented
business license or sexually oriented business employee card, and any appeal
from the denial of any such license or card, the applicant is hereby granted a
de facto temporary license or card, as the case may be, to continue operation
or employment until the ultimate termination of the appeal process by
completion or withdrawal of the appeal, subject to suspension or revocation
provisions as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Within 180 days after the effective date of this chapter, existing
sexually oriented businesses and dual purpose businesses must make any
necessary changes to the interior configurations of the regulated business
premises to conform to this chapter.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.44 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LOCATIONS: MEASUREMENTS.
   Any measurement required to be conducted by the provisions of this chapter
shall be performed by the Zoning Administrator, or his or her designee.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.45 INAPPLICABILITY OF MINNESOTA STATUTE § 617.242.
   The regulations provided in
Chapter 117 of the City of Benson Code of Ordinances shall supersede M.S. §
617.242, which is authorized in M.S. § 617.242. The City of Benson hereby
expressly “opts out” of the regulations set forth in M.S. § 617.242, and those
regulations shall not apply within the city. The regulations set forth in
Chapter 117 of the City of Benson Code of Ordinances shall apply within the
city.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be subject to the penalties for a
misdemeanor as prescribed by state law. Each day the violation continues shall
be considered a separate misdemeanor offense punishable by a separate
misdemeanor penalty. The city may also enforce any provision of this chapter by
mandamus, injunction or any other appropriate civil remedy in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1134.10, passed 8-2-10)
CHAPTER 118. LODGING TAX
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Imposition of lodging tax
   
118.03   Exceptions and exemptions
   
118.04   Advertising no lodging tax
   
118.05   Collections
   
118.06   Payment and returns
   
118.07   Processing returns
   
118.08   Failure to file return
   
118.09   Interest
   
118.10   Application of payments
   
118.11   Enforcement
   
118.12   Administration of lodging tax
   
118.13   Examination of records
   
118.14   Appeals
   
118.15   Use of proceeds
   
118.16   Benson Area Tourism Board
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS RECEIPTS . The total amount received, in money or otherwise, for
lodging as measured by the rate for the lodging.
   HOTEL, MOTEL AND TOURISM COURT . Every building or structure or enclosure,
or any part thereof, kept, used as, maintained as, or advertised as, or held
out to the public to be an enclosure where sleeping accommodations are
furnished to the public and furnishing accommodations for periods of less than
one week.
   LODGER . The person obtaining lodging from an operator.
   LODGING . The furnishing for a consideration of lodging by a hotel, motel,
rooming house, tourist court, resort, bed and breakfast, public/private
campground except where lodging shall be for a continuous period of 30 days or
more to the same lodger. The furnishing of rooms owned by religious,
educational or nonprofit organizations for self-sponsored activities shall not
constitute LODGING for purposes of this chapter.
   LODGING TAX . A tax imposed by the city of 3% of the gross receipts from the
furnishing for consideration of lodging.
   MUNICIPAL CAMPGROUND . Property owned by the city used to provide temporary
lodging for the public while fishing, hunting, vacationing, or touring in
tents, campers, or other portable shelters owned by such members of the public.
   OPERATOR . The person who is the proprietor of the lodging facility, whether
in the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, licensee or any other capacity.
   PERSON . Any person, persons, firm, corporation, partnership, trustee,
lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty, the terms  PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to any unincorporated entity
shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
officers and agents thereof.
   RESORT . Any building, structure, or enclosure or any part thereof, located
on, or on property neighboring any lake, stream, or skiing or hunting area for
purposes of providing convenient access thereto, kept, used, maintained or
advertised as, or held out to the public to be an enclosure where sleeping
accommodations are furnished to the public, and primarily to those seeking
recreation, for periods of one day, one week, or longer, and having for rent
five or more cottages, rooms or enclosures.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.02 IMPOSITION OF LODGING TAX.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 469.190, there is hereby imposed a lodging tax on the
gross receipts from the furnishing for consideration of lodging within the
city. The lodging tax shall be at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from the
furnishing for consideration of lodging. In no case shall the lodging tax
imposed by this chapter upon an operator exceed the amount of lodging tax that
the operator is authorized and required by this chapter to collect from the
lodger.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.03 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exceptions. The lodging tax shall not apply to the furnishing for
consideration of lodging for a continuous period of 30 days or more to the same
lodger.
   (B)   Exemptions. An exemption shall be granted to any person as to whom or
whose occupancy it is beyond the power of the city to tax. No exemption shall
be granted except upon a claim made at the time the rent is collected. Such
claim shall be made in writing and under penalty of perjury on forms provided
by the city. All such claims shall be forwarded to the city when the returns
and collections are submitted as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.04 ADVERTISING NO LODGING TAX.
   It shall be unlawful for any operator to advertise or hold out or state to
the public or any customer, directly or indirectly, that the lodging tax or any
party thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not
be added to the rent or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be
refunded.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.05 COLLECTIONS.
   Each operator shall collect the lodging tax imposed by this chapter at the
time the rent is paid. The lodging tax collected shall be deemed to be held in
trust by the operator for the city. The amount of lodging tax shall be
separately stated from the rent charged for the lodging and those persons
paying the lodging tax shall receive a receipt of payment from the operator.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.06 PAYMENT AND RETURNS.
   (A)   Every person who collects lodging tax shall pay the lodging tax
collected to the city monthly on or before the 20th of the month in which the
lodging tax is collected. At the time of payment, such person shall submit a
return upon such forms and containing such information as the City Clerk may
require. At the minimum, the return shall contain the following minimum
information:
      (1)   The total amount of consideration collected for lodging during the
period covered by the return;
      (2)   The total amount of exceptions/exemptions;
      (3)   The amount of lodging tax required to be collected and due for the
period;
      (4)   The signature of the person filing the return or that of his or her
agent duly authorized in writing;
      (5)   The period covered by the return;
      (6)   The amount of uncollectible consideration charged subject to the
lodging tax.
   (B)   The operator may offset against the lodging taxes payable with respect
to any reporting period, the amount of lodging tax that became uncollectible
during such reporting period, but only in proportion to the portion of such
consideration which became uncollectible.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.07 PROCESSING RETURNS.
   The City Clerk shall, after a return is filed, examine the same and make any
investigation or examination of the records and accounts of the person making
the return deemed necessary for determining its correctness. The lodging tax
computed on the basis of such examination shall be the lodging tax due. If the
lodging tax due is found to be greater than paid, such excess shall be paid to
the city within ten days after receipt of a notice thereof given either
personally or sent by registered mail to the address shown on the return. If
the lodging tax paid is greater than the lodging tax found to be due, the
excess shall be refunded to the person who paid the lodging tax to the city
within ten days after determination of such refund.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.08 FAILURE TO FILE RETURN.
   The City Clerk shall notify any operator of a facility who fails to file a
return or who files an incorrect, false or fraudulent return of such fact. Such
operator shall file such return or corrected return within five days of the
receipt of such written notice and pay any lodging tax due thereon. If such
persons shall fail to file such return or corrected return, the City Clerk
shall make a return or corrected return for such person from such knowledge and
information as the City Clerk can obtain, and assess the lodging tax due on the
basis thereof, which said lodging tax shall be paid within five days of the
receipt of written notice and demand for such payment. Any such return or
assessment made by the City Clerk shall be prima facie correct and valid, and
such person shall have the burden of establishing its incorrectness or
invalidity in any action or proceeding in respect thereto.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.09 INTEREST.
   The amount of lodging tax not timely paid, together with any penalty, shall
bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the time such lodging tax should
have been paid until paid. Any interest and penalty shall be added to the
lodging tax and be collected as part thereof.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.10 APPLICATION OF PAYMENTS.
   All payments shall be credited first to penalties, next to interest and then
to the lodging tax due.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   If any portion of the lodging tax imposed by the city, including penalties
thereon, is not paid within 30 days after it is required to be paid, the city
attorney may institute legal action as may be necessary to recover the amount
due plus interest penalties, the costs and disbursement of any action.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.12 ADMINISTRATION OF LODGING TAX.
   The City Clerk shall administer and enforce the assessment and collection of
the lodging taxes imposed by the city. The City Clerk shall prepare blank forms
for the returns and other documents required by this section and shall make
them available to members of the public.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.13 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS.
   The City Clerk may examine the books, papers, and records of any operator of
a facility subject to the lodging tax imposed by the city in order to verify
the accuracy of any return made, or if no return was made, to ascertain the
lodging tax imposed by the city through this chapter. Every such operator is
directed and required to give the City Clerk the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examination and investigations as are hereby authorized.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.14 APPEALS.
   Any operator aggrieved by any notice, order or determination made by the
City Clerk under this section may file with the City Clerk a petition for
review of such notice, order or determination by the City Council. The petition
shall contain the name of the petitioner, the petitioner's address, the
location of the lodging facility, the order, notice or determination subject to
the review and the basis for the request for review. Upon receipt of the
petition, the City Clerk will place the matter on the City Council agenda for a
hearing as soon as practical. The City Clerk shall give the petitioner at least
five days prior written notice of the date, time and place of such hearing. At
the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to show cause why the
notice, order or determination should be modified or withdrawn. The City
Council shall make written findings of fact and conclusions based upon this
chapter and the evidence presented. The City Council may modify, reverse or
affirm the notice, or order or determination that is subject to the review. All
requests for review must be made within one year of the date of notice, order
or determination.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
§ 118.15 USE OF PROCEEDS.
   Ninety-five percent of the gross proceeds obtained from the collection of
lodging taxes shall be used by the city to fund a local convention or tourism
bureau for the purpose of marketing and promotion of the city as a tourist or
convention center.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05; Am. Ord. 215, passed 2-18-25)
§ 118.16 BENSON AREA TOURISM BOARD.
   (A)   Appointment of members. The Benson Area Tourism Board is hereby
established for the purpose of advising and assisting the city government on
the promotion of the Benson area as a tourist destination and/or convention
site and in the allocation and utilization of the lodging tax proceeds
collected within the city to further that purpose. The board shall consist of
five persons; the two persons appointed for a term of one year, two persons
appointed for a term of two years, and one person appointed for a term of three
years. Thereafter, each appointment or reappointment shall be for three years.
The Council may,
at their discretion, ensure that there is representation on the board of a
person or persons engaged in the business of providing lodging in the Benson
area.
   (B)   Meetings, administrative rules and matters. The Benson Area Tourism
Board shall meet a minimum of twice a year, and the members shall determine the
place of the meetings and shall adopt its own rules and regulations governing
such meetings, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Recommendations to city government. The Benson Area Tourism Board
shall make recommendations to city government officials, whether the Council or
the City Economic Development Authority, on the promotion of the Benson area as
a tourist destination and/or convention site and for the allocation and
utilization of the lodging tax proceeds.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05; Am. Ord. 215, passed 2-18-25)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The following penalties shall apply in the given situations:
      (1)   Failure to file a return or pay lodging tax to the city within 30
days of the due date: a penalty of 10% of the unpaid lodging tax.
      (2)   Failure to file a return or pay lodging tax imposed by the city by
more than 30 days but less than 60 days of the due date: a penalty of 15% of
the unpaid lodging tax.
      (3)   Failure to file a return or pay lodging tax imposed by the city by
more than 60 days but less than 90 days of the due date: a penalty of 20% of
the unpaid lodging tax.
      (4)   Failure to file a return or pay lodging tax imposed by the city by
more than 90 days of the due date: a penalty of 25% of the unpaid lodging tax.
   (B)   If the penalty as computed does not exceed $10, a minimum penalty of
$10 shall be assessed. The penalty shall be collected in the same manner as the
lodging tax.
(Ord. 1117.05, passed 12-12-05)
CHAPTER 119: SIDEWALK CAFES
Section
   
119.01   Purpose
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   Permit fee
   
119.04   Permit application
   
119.05   Notice required
   
119.06   Location rules and review criteria
   
119.07   Liability and insurance
   
119.08   Forms and conditions of permit
   
119.09   Denial, revocation, suspension of permit
 
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to permit and encourage sidewalk dining that
is compatible with other uses of the public sidewalk. The city finds that
sidewalk cafes encourage a pedestrian-oriented environment, help to create a
visually attractive atmosphere and streetscape, and promote overall commerce.
(Ord. 1128.09, passed 2-9-09)
§ 119.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS. Any owner or occupant of property
which abuts the subject sidewalk cafe site excluding public right-of-way; and
any other person who has requested in writing to be provided such notice.
   ADJACENT SIDEWALK AREA. That portion of the public sidewalk between the curb
line and the property line demarcated by extending the side building lines of
the premises until they intersect the curb.
   OPERATE A SIDEWALK CAFE. Serving food or beverage from a restaurant to
patrons seated at tables located within the adjacent sidewalk area, including,
in the case of a permittee in possession of a valid license for the sale of
alcoholic beverages covering such sidewalk, the service of such beverages, or
providing seating for patrons in the adjacent sidewalk area.
(Ord. 1128.09, passed 2-9-09)
§ 119.03 PERMIT FEE.
   The permit fee shall be established by resolution of the City Council and
adjusted annually.
(Ord. 1128.09, passed 2-9-09)
§ 119.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a permit to operate a sidewalk cafe shall be made at
the City Manager's Office on a form provided. The request for permit shall
minimally contain:
      (1)   A completed application;
      (2)   A scale diagram of the area for sidewalk café use, with dimensions
shown;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance and endorsement form; and
      (4)   The location and description of the tables and materials requested
to be in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Other information shall be provided as required by the City Manager to
carry out the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 1128.09, passed 2-9-09)
§ 119.05 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Prior to rendering a decision, the City Manager shall mail abutting property
owners and occupants notice that an application for a sidewalk cafe has been
filed. The notice shall contain the diagram submitted by the applicant, state
whether or not the business is licensed to serve alcoholic beverages which may
be served and consumed at the sidewalk cafe if the permit is granted, and state
that all comments concerning the proposed sidewalk cafe must be received by the
City Manager within ten calendar days from the date of mailing the notice.
(Ord. 1128.09, passed 2-9-09)
§ 119.06 LOCATION RULES AND REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   The City Manager shall review the application for its compliance with
the following criteria:
      (1)   The operation of a sidewalk cafe is limited to structures which are
sited within ten feet of a public sidewalk, and which are located in one of the
following zoning districts: B-1 (Central Business District), B-2 (General
Business District) and M-1 (Mixed Use District).
      (2)   The operation of a sidewalk café shall be located such that there
is at least five feet clear and unobstructed passageway between the sidewalk
café tables, chairs and barriers and street trees, bike racks, lamp posts, sign
posts, and any other fixtures or obstructions. The City Manager may require
more than five feet if necessary to protect the public safety. The City Manager
may also reduce this requirement where unusual circumstances exist and where
public safety would not be jeopardized.
      (3)    The sidewalk café may only be located in the adjacent sidewalk
area to the applicant’s business, but may extend in front of adjacent
businesses with the written consent of both the property owner and the business
owner, subject to review by the City Manager.
      (4)   The sidewalk café shall be located five feet from driveways and
alleys, and ten feet from intersections. These requirements may be modified by
the City Manager where unusual circumstances exist.
      (5)    The location of the sidewalk café shall be as approved by the City
Manager.
   (B)   The City Manager shall forward all applications for review to the
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall confirm the zoning of the
request, and confirm that the proposed use is in conformance with the
requirements of the Land Use Ordinance.
(Ord. 1128.09, passed 2-9-09; Am. Ord. 1160.24, passed 3-4-24)
§ 119.07 LIABILITY AND INSURANCE.
   A signed statement that the permittee shall hold harmless the city, its
officers and employees, and shall indemnify the city, its officers and
employees for any claims for damages to property or injury to persons which may
occur in connection with an activity carried on under the terms of the permit.
Permittee shall furnish and maintain such public liability, food products
liability, and property damages insurance as will protect permittee and city
from all claims for damage to property or bodily injury, including death, which
may arise from operations under the permit or in connection therewith. Such
insurance shall provide coverage of not less than the amount of municipal tort
liability under M.S. Ch. 444, Tort Liability, Political Subdivisions. The
permittee shall name the city as an additional insured by attaching an
endorsement to the certificate of insurance (provided by the city). Such
insurance shall be without prejudice to coverage otherwise existing, and shall
name as additional insured the city, its officers and employees, and shall
further provide that the policy shall not terminate or be canceled prior to the
expiration of the permit without 30 days written notice to the city.
(Ord. 1128.09, passed 2-9-09)
§ 119.08 FORMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Requirements for all sidewalk cafes:
      (1)   Each permit issued shall terminate December 31 of the year in which
it is issued.
      (2)   The permit issued shall be personal to the permittee only and is
not transferable in any manner.
      (3)   The permit may be temporarily suspended by the City Manager if the
public interest requires use of the right-of-way for a public event,
construction, repair, or any other purpose.
      (4)   The permit is specifically limited to the area approved or as
modified by the City Manager, and will include a diagram indicating the area
approved for the sidewalk cafe and the location of the tables and materials
permitted to be in the right-of-way.
      (5)   The operation of the sidewalk cafe shall be such that there is at
least five feet from the outermost edge of the sidewalk café to the street
curb, that also includes a minimum of three feet clear and unobstructed
passageway between the sidewalk cafe tables, chairs and barriers and street
trees, bike racks, lamp posts, sign posts, and any other fixtures or
obstructions. The City Manager may require more than five feet if necessary to
protect the public safety. The City Manager may also reduce this requirement
where unusual circumstances exist and where public safety would not be
jeopardized.
      (6)   The sidewalk and all things placed there shall at all times be
maintained in a clean and orderly condition. Only those things authorized by
the permit and shown on the diagram may be stored in the public right-of-way
when the sidewalk cafe is not in operation. Should the permittee not utilize
the sidewalk as authorized for a period of seven days or more, all the tables
and materials shall be removed therefrom.
      (7)   The operation of a sidewalk cafe requires that covered trash
containers be provided on site and emptied on a regular basis.
      (8)   All required building modifications or parking improvements shall
be completed prior to the commencement of the operation of the sidewalk cafe.
      (9)   No signs shall be attached to any furniture, umbrellas, awnings, or
other structure related to the operation of the sidewalk cafe.
      (10)   Sidewalk cafes shall be continuously supervised by employees of
the establishment.
      (11)   Sidewalk cafes shall meet all requirements of the local health
licensing authority.
      (12)   Tables, chairs, and other structures associated with the sidewalk
cafe shall be kept free of litter and other debris at all times.
      (13)   Sidewalk cafes and adjoining sidewalks shall remain clear of
litter, food scraps, and soiled dishes at all times. Where establishments
provide take-out or self-service, an adequate number of employees must be
maintained to clear sidewalk cafes on a regular basis. Sidewalk and flooring
areas must be cleaned daily, including adjacent sidewalk areas.
      (14)   Sidewalk cafes that serve alcohol shall install a portable fence
surrounding the café so as to prevent access from the sidewalk by patrons.
Access must be achieved through the applicant's business.
      (15)   The city has the right to repeal or amend this chapter and thereby
terminate or modify all sidewalk cafe operations. No permittee shall obtain any
property right in the continued private commercial use of the public sidewalk.
   (B)   Businesses which intend to serve alcoholic beverages at the sidewalk
cafe must additionally meet the following requirements:
      (1)   The business shall hold a valid liquor license as set forth in M.S.
Ch. 340A.
      (2)   Storage of containers commonly used for dispensing alcoholic
beverages to customers including but not limited to bottles, pitchers, and
carafes must be kept inside the business unless an employee is stationed in the
outside area at all times. No taps, kegs, coolers, or other alcoholic beverage
storage devices are allowed outside on the sidewalk.
      (3)    Sidewalk cafes where alcoholic beverages are served and consumed
require supervision by employees of the license business, as required by M.S.
Ch. 340A for said issued liquor license.
      (4)   Non-emergency entrance and exit to and from the sidewalk cafe shall
be from the main entrance and exit of the establishment and not directly to or
from the sidewalk cafe area.
      (5)   All service and consumption of alcoholic beverages at sidewalk
cafes shall coincide with liquor license hours of operation.
      (6)   All alcoholic beverage service providers must also provide food
service in the licensed area.
(Ord. 1128.09, passed 2-9-09)
§ 119.09 DENIAL, REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   The City Manager may deny, revoke, or suspend the permit upon finding that
any provision of this chapter or condition of approval will be or has been
violated. Upon denial, revocation, or suspension the City Manager shall give
notice of such action to the applicant or permittee in writing stating the
action which has been taken and the reason therefor. The action shall be
effective immediately, but the applicant or permittee may make written request,
within ten calendar days after the notice is issued, for a hearing by the City
Council. Upon hearing the matter, the City Council shall render a final
decision concerning the permit.
(Ord. 1128.09, passed 2-9-09)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be penalized as provided in §
10.99. After two infractions, the sidewalk cafe permit shall be revoked for a
period of at least one year.
(Ord. 1128.09, passed 2-9-09)
CHAPTER 120: CANNABIS REGULATION
Section
   
120.01   Definitions
   
120.02   Administration
   
120.03   Registration of cannabis businesses
   
120.04   Requirements for cannabis business
   
120.05   Temporary cannabis events
   
120.06   Lower-potency hemp edibles
   
120.07   Local government as a cannabis retailer
   
120.08   Use in public places
 
   
120.99   Penalty
§ 120.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases contained in M.S.
§ 342.01 and the rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, shall have
the same meanings in this chapter.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis plants
within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to mature
plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label immature
plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis businesses,
transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the same
premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A retail location and the retail location(s) of
mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, excluding lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis products to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
   DAY CARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human
Services to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own
home for gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01 subd. 50.
   OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as "OCM" in this chapter.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold or otherwise made available to the
public.
   PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17.
   PUBLIC PLACE. See definition contained within § 133.03.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. § 245.462 subd. 23.
   RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the city to a state
licensed cannabis retail business.
   SCHOOL. A public school as defined under M.S. § 120A.05 or a nonpublic
school that must meet the reporting requirements under M.S. § 120A.24.
   STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota's Office
of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
(Ord. 1162.24, passed 11-18-24)
§ 120.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of M.S. Ch. 342,
which authorizes the city to protect the public health, safety and welfare of
city residents by regulating cannabis businesses within the legal boundaries of
the city. The city finds and concludes that the provisions are appropriate and
lawful land use regulations for the city, that the chapter will promote the
community's interest in reasonable stability in zoning for now and in the
future, and that the provisions are in the public interest and for the public
good.
(Ord. 1162.24, passed 11-18-24)
§ 120.03 REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Consent to registering of cannabis businesses. No individual or entity
may operate a state-licensed cannabis retail business within the city without
first registering. Any state-licensed cannabis retail business that sells to a
customer or patient without valid retail registration shall incur a civil
penalty of up to $2,000 for each violation. Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions, the state shall not issue a license to any cannabis business to
operate in Indian country, as defined in U.S.C, Title 18, Section 1151, of a
Minnesota tribal government without the consent of the tribal government.
   (B)   Compliance checks prior to retail registration. Prior to issuance of a
cannabis retail business registration, the city shall conduct a preliminary
compliance check to ensure compliance with local ordinances. Pursuant to M.S.
Ch. 342, within the applicable time of receiving a copy of a state license
application from OCM, the city shall certify on a form provided by OCM whether
a proposed cannabis retail business complies with local zoning ordinances and,
if applicable, whether the proposed business complies with the state fire code
and building code.
   (C)   Registration and application procedure.
      (1)   Fees.
         (a)   The city shall not charge an application fee.
         (b)   A registration fee, as established in the city's fee schedule,
shall be charged to applicants depending on the type of retail business license
applied for.
         (c)   An initial retail registration fee shall not exceed $500 or half
the amount of an initial state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is
less. The initial registration fee shall include the initial retail
registration fee and the first annual renewal fee.
         (d)   Any renewal retail registration fee imposed by the city shall be
charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent renewal
thereafter.
         (e)   A renewal retail registration fee shall not exceed $1,000 or
half the amount of a renewal state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever
is less.
         (f)   A medical combination business operating an adult-use retail
location may only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the
lesser of a single retail registration fee, defined under this section, of the
adult-use retail business.
      (2)   Application submittal. The city shall issue a retail registration
to a state-licensed cannabis retail business that adheres to the requirements
of M.S. § 342.22.
      (3)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the city. Said form shall include, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
         (b)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
         (c)   Name, address, email address and telephone number of a local
agent, if the owner and applicant will not be physically present at the
business site during regular business hours;
         (d)   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought;
         (e)   Certification that the applicant complies with the requirements
of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13.
         (f)   If the owner, applicant, or agent information is to change, at
least ten days' notice must be provided to the city.
      (4)   The applicant shall include with the form:
         (a)   The registration fee as required in §
120.03(C)(1);
         (b)   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM license
preapproval;
      (5)   Once an application is considered complete, the City Manager, or
their designee, shall inform the applicant as such, process the application
fees, and forward the application to the City Council for approval or denial.
The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
      (6)   Application approval.
         (a)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not
be approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of
this section or state statute.
         (b)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application that meets
the requirements of this section and applicable zoning ordinances shall be
approved.
      (7)   Annual compliance checks. The city shall complete, at minimum, one
compliance check per calendar year of every cannabis business to assess if the
business meets age verification requirements, as required under M.S. § 342.22
subd. 4(b) and M.S. § 342.24 and applicable city ordinances. Any failure under
this section must be reported to the Office of Cannabis Management.
      (8)   Location change. If a state-licensed cannabis retail business seeks
to move to a new location still within the legal boundaries of the city, it
shall notify the City Manager of the proposed location change, and submit
necessary information to meet all the criteria in applicable ordinances.
   (D)   Renewal of registration. The city shall renew an annual registration
of a state-licensed cannabis retail business at the same time OCM renews the
cannabis retail business license. A state-licensed cannabis retail business
shall apply to renew registration on a form established by the city. A cannabis
retail registration issued under this section shall not be transferred.
      (1)   Renewal fees. The city shall charge a renewal fee for the
registration starting at the second renewal, as established in the city's fee
schedule.
      (2)   Renewal application. The application for renewal of a retail
registration shall include, but is not limited to items required under §
120.03 (C)(2) of this chapter.
   (E)   Suspension of registration.
      (1)   When suspension is warranted. The city may suspend a cannabis
retail business's registration if it violates city ordinance or poses an
immediate threat to the health or safety of the public. The city shall
immediately notify the cannabis retail business in writing the grounds for the
suspension.
      (2)   Notification to OCM. The city shall immediately notify the OCM in
writing the grounds for the suspension. OCM will provide the city and cannabis
business retailer a response to the complaint
within seven calendar days and perform any necessary inspections within 30
calendar days, or according to applicable state statute.
      (3)   Length of suspension. The suspension of a cannabis retail business
registration may be for up to 30 calendar days, unless OCM suspends the license
for a longer period. The business may not make sales to customers if their
registration is suspended. The city may reinstate a registration if it
determines that the violation or violations have been resolved. The city shall
reinstate a registration if OCM determines that the violation or violations
have been resolved.
      (4)   Civil penalties. Subject to M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5(e) the city may
impose a civil penalty, as specified in the city's fee schedule, for
registration violations, not to exceed $2,000.
(Ord. 1162.24, passed 11-18-24)
§ 120.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS BUSINESS.
   (A)   Minimum buffer requirements. Operations of a cannabis business is
prohibited within 1,000 feet of any school. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357 subd.
1e, nothing in this section shall prohibit an active cannabis business or
cannabis business seeking registration from continuing operation at the same
site of a school/daycare/residential treatment facility/attraction within a
public park that is regularly used by minors moves within the minimum buffer
zone.
   (B)   Hours of operation. Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale of
cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   Age restriction. Cannabis products shall not be sold to individuals
under 21 years of age.
   (D)   Advertising. Cannabis businesses are permitted to advertise and post
signs in accordance with state law and applicable city code.
(Ord. 1162.24, passed 11-18-24)
§ 120.05 TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   (A)   License required. A license or permit is required to be issued and
approved by the City Zoning Administrator prior to holding a temporary cannabis
event.
   (B)   Registration and application procedure. A registration fee, as
established in the city's fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants for
temporary cannabis events.
   (C)   Application submittal and review. The city shall require an
application for temporary cannabis events following the procedure detailed in §
154.176. The applicant shall include with the form the application fee as
required in § 120.05(B) and a copy of the of the OCM cannabis event license
application, submitted to or be submitted pursuant to M.S. § 342.39, subd. 2.
The application shall be submitted to the City Zoning Administrator, or other
designee, for review. If the Administrator or designee determines that a
submitted application is incomplete, they shall return the application to the
applicant with a notice of deficiencies. Once an application is considered
complete, the Administrator
or designee shall inform the applicant as such, process the application fees,
and forward the application to the City Manager for approval or denial. The
application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
   (D)   Temporary cannabis events shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   Must meet applicable statutory requirements.
      (2)   Must meet the requirements contained within other applicable city
code, including, but not limited to, restrictions against consumption of
cannabis products in public places, and prohibitions against causing a nuisance
by sound.
      (3)   Temporary cannabis events must be held either indoors, or outdoors
in fenced-in areas.
   (E)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that meets the requirements
of this section shall be
approved. A request for a temporary cannabis event that does not meet the
requirements of the section
shall be denied. The city shall notify the applicant of the standards not met
and basis for denial. Temporary cannabis events shall only be held between the
hours of 6:00 a.m and 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 1162.24, passed 11-18-24)
§ 120.06 LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES.
   (A)   Sale of low-potency hemp edibles. The sale of low-potency edibles is
permitted, subject to the conditions within this section.
   (B)   Additional standards.
      (1)   Sales within municipal liquor store. The sale of low-potency
edibles is permitted in a municipal liquor store.
      (2)   Storage of product. Low-potency edibles shall be sold from behind a
counter, and stored in a locked case.
      (3)   Age requirements. The sale of low-potency edibles and beverages is
restricted to individuals who are at least 21 years of age.
(Ord. 1162.24, passed 11-18-24)
§ 120.07 LOCAL GOVERNMENT AS A CANNABIS RETAILER.
   The City of Benson may establish, own, and operate one municipal cannabis
retail business subject to the restrictions in this chapter. The city shall be
subject to all same rental license requirements and procedures applicable to
all other applicants.
(Ord. 1162.24, passed 11-18-24)
§ 120.08 USE IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place, as defined in §
133.03.
(Ord. 1162.24, passed 11-18-24)
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the sections of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by
law. Violations of this chapter can occur regardless of whether a permit is
required for a regulated activity listed in this chapter.
(Ord. 1162.24, passed 11-18-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Firearms, bows and arrows, and fireworks
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct
   
130.03   Radio and television interference
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   
Prohibited interference with Fire Department operations and equipment; false
alarms, fire hose, and the like, see § 33.19
   
Alcoholic beverages; consumption and open container restrictions, see § 110.01
   
Alcoholic beverages; adoption of state law, see § 110.10
   
Misrepresentation of age by minor to purchase alcohol, see § 110.50
   
Prohibited purchase, possession, or use of tobacco products, see § 112.09
   
Sexually oriented businesses; prohibitions for businesses, employees, and
patrons, see Ch. 117
§ 130.01 FIREARMS, BOWS AND ARROWS, AND FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Firearms.
      (1)   The term FIREARM means any gun that discharges a shot or a
projectile by means of an explosive, gas, spring or compressed air.
      (2)   No person shall fire or discharge any firearm within city limits.
      (3)   No person shall carry a firearm within the city limits unless it is
encased and unloaded, except as provided by M.S. Ch. 624.
      (4)   This section shall not apply to a licensed peace officer while
acting in the course of his or her duties.
   (B)   Replica firearms.
      (1)   The term REPLICA FIREARM means a device or object that is not
defined as a dangerous weapon, and that is a facsimile or toy version of, and
reasonably appears to be a pistol, revolver, shotgun, sawed-off shotgun, rifle,
machine gun, rocket launcher, or any other firearm. The term REPLICA FIREARM
includes, but is not limited to, all Airsoft guns and devices or objects that
are designed to fire only blanks.
      (2)   The term PUBLIC PLACE means any building or establishment, place,
or public street or highway, where the business, social or governmental
activity ordinarily conducted is generally held, open to the public;
specifically including, but not limited to, such locations as governmental
buildings, meeting halls, centers for art and culture, places of amusement,
liquor or beer establishments, and restaurants. It shall also include the yard
or curtilage surrounding any residential dwelling or other building which is
visible from the street or neighboring structures.
      (3)   No person shall carry on or about his or her person or possess a
replica firearm in a public place.
      (4)   A replica firearm may be carried or possessed between motor
vehicles and places where possession of a firearm or a facsimile firearm is
lawful if the replica firearm is carried unloaded in a secured container.
   (C)   Bows and arrows.
      (1)   The term BOW AND ARROW means any device or combination of devices
designed to propel any arrow from a cord connecting the two ends of a bow by
pulling on the cord, thus bending the bow and then releasing the cord. It shall
not mean devices of this type easily identifiable as toys.
      (2)   No person shall fire a bow and arrow or crossbow within city
limits.
   (D)   Fireworks.
      (1)   The term FIREWORK means any substance or combination of substances
or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect
by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation, and includes blank
cartridges, toy cannons, and toy canes in which explosives are used, the type
of balloons which require fire underneath to propel them, firecrackers,
torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, daygo bombs, or other fireworks of like
construction, and any fireworks containing any explosive or inflammable
compound, or any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance and
commonly used as fireworks.
      (2)   No person shall discharge any fireworks within city limits, except
as permitted by M.S. Ch. 624.
   (E)   Conditional use permit. This section does not prohibit the lawful use
of firearms, replica firearms, bows and arrows, or fireworks when permitted by
the city with a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 1141.13, passed 2-19-13)
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Any person doing any of the following acts without authority of law is
engaging in disorderly conduct:
      (1)   Willfully disturbing any assembly or meeting not unlawful in its
character, or the peace and quiet of any family or neighborhood;
      (2)   Willfully and lewdly exposing his or her person or the private
parts thereof, or procuring another to so expose him- or herself, and any open
and gross lewdness or lascivious behavior, or any act of public indecency;
      (3)   Using profane, vulgar, or indecent language in or about any public
building, store, or place of business, or upon any of the streets, alleys, or
sidewalks of the city so as to be audible and offensive;
      (4)   Voluntarily entering the water of any stream or public swimming
pool within the limits of the city without being garbed in a bathing suit
sufficient to cover his or her person and equal to the standards generally
accepted by the public.
   (B)   No person shall aid, countenance, or assist in making noise, riot,
disturbance, or improper diversion, and no persons shall collect in bodies or
crowds in the city for improper purposes to the annoyance or disturbance of the
citizens or travelers.
   (C)   No person shall appear in any street or public place in the city in a
state of nudity, a dress not belonging to his or her sex, or any indecent or
lewd dress, shall be guilty of any obscene or filthy acts or of any lewd,
indecent, immoral, or insulting conduct, language, or behavior, or shall
exhibit, sell, or offer to sell an indecent, obscene, or lewd book or picture
of things, or shall exhibit or perform any indecent, immoral, or lewd play or
other representation.
   (D)   No person or persons shall congregate in any private lands because of,
or participate in, any party or gathering of people from which noise emanates
of a sufficient volume or of such nature as to disturb the peace, quiet, or
repose of other persons. Any owner or person in lawful possession or control of
such private lands who has knowledge of the disturbance and fails to
immediately abate said disturbance shall be guilty of a violation of this
section.
   (E)   No person or persons shall congregate on any private lands of another
because of, or participate in, any party or gathering of people in the absence
of the owner of said private lands being present without first having obtained
written permission from said landowner. Such written permission shall at all
times be in the possession of one or more persons at the site of such
congregation. The document containing the written permission must bear the
signature of the landowner and the date of the permitted use. Failure to
display written permission upon request shall be considered prima facie
evidence of an absence of permission from the owner.
   (F)   A violation of subsection (D) or (E) of this section shall give a
police officer the authority to order all persons present, other than persons
identifying themselves as the owner or person in lawful possession or control
of such land, to immediately disperse. Any person who shall refuse to leave
after being ordered to do so by a police officer shall be guilty of a violation
of this section.
   (G)   No owner of or other person in charge of rental living units shall
knowingly or repeatedly permit thereon conduct prohibited by subsection (D),
(E), or (F) of this section.
('75 Code, § 13.401) (Ord. 1074.92, passed 4-16-92)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Cross-reference:
   
Public nuisances affecting morals and decency; houses of ill repute, see §
93.03
§ 130.03 RADIO AND TELEVISION INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   No person shall operate within the city any radio receiving equipment
either of the regenerative or any other type in such a manner as to cause
electric, electrostatic, or electromagnetic waves to radiate from its antenna
in such a manner as to result in interference with radio and television
reception.
('75 Code, § 5.520)
   (B)   No person shall operate within the city between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and midnight of the same day any vibrating battery charger, any badly sparking
generator, sign charger, electric oil blower, electric refrigerator machine, or
any electrical apparatus or equipment of any sort in such a manner as to cause
electric interference with radio or television reception. This prohibition
shall apply whether the interference result from the manner of construction or
from the manner of operation of the apparatus. However, such prohibition shall
not apply to violet ray machines nor to x-ray machines so long as such violet
ray machines and x-ray machines are equipped and operated so as to reduce the
interference caused by such machines as much as is reasonably possible.
('75 Code, § 5.521)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be penalized as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
130.01 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
('75 Code, § 11.502) (Ord. 1032.83, passed 2-3-83)
CHAPTER 131: CURFEWS
Section
   
131.01   Persons under 15 years of age
   
131.02   Persons 15 to 18 years of age
   
131.03   Parental or custodial responsibility
   
131.04   Places of amusement; duty in regard to curfew for minors
   
131.05   Construction of curfew for minors provisions
   
131.06   Park curfew
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PERSONS UNDER 15 YEARS OF AGE.
   No person under the age of 15 years shall be on or present at any public
place, street, road, alley, park, playground, or any vacant property or
unsupervised place in the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of
the following day, unless accompanied by his or her parent or guardian or adult
person having the lawful custody or control of his or her person, unless there
exists a reasonable necessity therefore. The fact that said minor person not
accompanied by said parent, guardian, or other person having legal custody or
control is found upon any public place, street, road, alley, park, playground
or any vacant property or unsupervised place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:00
a.m. of the following day shall be prima facie evidence that said minor person
is there unlawfully and that no reasonable excuse exists therefor.
('75 Code, § 13.301)
Penalty, see § 131.99
§ 131.02 PERSONS 15 TO 18 YEARS OF AGE.
   No minor person between the ages of 15 years and 18 years of age shall be on
or present at any public place, street, alley, road, park, or playground or any
vacant property or unsupervised place between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00
a.m. of the following day unless accompanied by his or her parent or guardian
or adult person having the lawful custody or control of his or her person or
unless there exists reasonable necessity therefore, except that the curfew laws
relating to said minors shall be 12:00 midnight to 5:00 a.m. of the following
day on Friday nights and Saturday nights. The fact that said minor person not
accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having his or
her legal custody or control is found upon any public place, street, road,
alley, or playground or any vacant property or unsupervised place during the
curfew hours as set forth above in this section shall be prima facie evidence
that said minor person is there unlawfully and that no reasonable excuse exists
therefore.
('75 Code, § 13.302)
Penalty, see § 131.99
§ 131.03 PARENTAL OR CUSTODIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent, guardian, or other person having the lawful care, custody, or
control of any person under the age of 18 years shall allow or permit such
person to violate the provisions of §§
131.01 and
131.02.
('75 Code, § 13.303)
Penalty, see § 131.99
§ 131.04 PLACES OF AMUSEMENT; DUTY IN REGARD TO CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation operating or in
charge of any place of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment or other place
of business to permit any minor under the age of 18 years to loiter, loaf, or
idle in such place during the hours prohibited by this chapter. Whenever the
owner or person in charge or in control of any place of amusement,
entertainment, refreshment, or other place of business shall find persons under
the age of 18 years loitering, loafing, or idling in such place of business, he
or she shall immediately order such person to leave, and if such person refuses
to leave said place of business, the operator shall immediately notify the
Police Department and inform them of the violation.
('75 Code, § 13.304)
Penalty, see § 131.99
§ 131.05 CONSTRUCTION OF CURFEW FOR MINORS PROVISIONS.
   Sections
131.01 to
131.04 shall not be construed as permitting the presence at any time of any
person under the age of 18 years in any place where his or her presence is now
prohibited by any existing law or ordinance.
('75 Code, § 13.305)
§ 131.06 PARK CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, occupy, or enter any park
within the limits of the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of
the following day except for the following purposes, to-wit:
      (1)   For the purpose of overnight camping, such as the parking and using
of a travel trailer, a travel camper, a tent or tents, or other such mobile
camping equipment used for overnight camping purposes;
      (2)   In that part of any city park heretofore or hereafter specifically
laid out and established by the city for such use, for the purpose of using
tennis courts, baseball grounds, skating rinks, softball grounds, and
basketball courts;
      (3)   For such other purposes and uses as may be specifically authorized
by the Chief of Police of the city, provided that such use or purpose shall be
set forth in writing by the Chief of Police of the city, and that such permit
shall be exhibited to any peace officer upon request therefor. Failure to
produce such permit shall be cause for immediate expulsion from the park.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term PARK shall be deemed to
include, but shall not be limited to, all of that area bordering on the south
side of Atlantic Avenue in the city between 12th Street and 15th Street,
provided, however, that entry upon that area for the sole purpose of retrieving
a motor vehicle parked thereon shall not be considered a violation of this
section.
('75 Code, § 13.3041) (Ord. 1024.81, passed 10-1-81)
Penalty, see § 131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a petty misdemeanor.
('75 Code, § 13.306) (Ord. 1032.83, passed 2-3-83)
CHAPTER 132: WEAPONS
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Assault weapons restricted
   
132.03   Knives restricted
   
132.04   Transportation and carriage requirements
   
132.05   Permits
   
132.06   Investigatory stops; search and seizure
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSAULT WEAPON. Any weapon other than a firearm or military-type weapon
having the personal assault characteristics of any sap, numchucks, blackjack,
slungshot, sand club, chain club, police type baton, metal knuckles, or any
shurikens, dirk, dagger, stiletto, switchblade knife, spring blade knife, push
button knife, or butterfly-type knife.
   CONCEALED MANNER. Having the object on the person in such a manner so as to
conceal it from the view of any other person. For purposes of this chapter, a
knife carried in a sheath on a person's belt shall not be considered to be
carried in a concealed manner if covered by a coat, jacket, or other outer
garment worn by such person.
   KNIFE. A folding knife with a blade in excess of 4½ inches, machete sword,
bayonet, or any fixed-blade knife not meeting the criteria set forth for an
assault weapon in the above definition.
   MILITARY-TYPE WEAPON. Any destructive device having firepower, mass,
explosive, or incendiary characteristics of weapons such as cannons having a
bore diameter larger than ½ inch, bazookas, machine guns, fully automatic
weapons, mortars, grenades, or Molotov cocktails, but not including shotguns,
rifles, pistols, or revolvers.
   NUMCHUCKS. Any device constructed of two cylindrical objects joined together
on one end by a chain, rope, thong, or other such material.
   OFFICIALLY RECOGNIZED COMPETITION. All competitions held under the
sponsorship of a bona fide target-shooting or sportsmen's club or bona fide
educational institution.
   PARK ZONE. An area within the city that has been designated as a public
park.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building, together with the immediate grounds upon
which it is located, owned or occupied by a public or governmental entity,
including, but not limited to, the City of Benson, the County of Swift, the
State of Minnesota, and the federal government.
   PUBLIC EVENT. An activity that is sponsored by a governmental entity, or an
activity for which a permit is issued by the city, including, but not limited
to, block parties, neighborhood festivals, parades, or dances.
   SCHOOL ZONE. Any property owned, leased, or controlled by a school district
or an organization operating a nonpublic school as defined in M.S. § 123.92(3)
where an elementary, middle, or secondary school, a secondary vocational
center, or other school providing educational services in grade one through
grade 12 is located or used for educational purposes, or where extracurricular
or cocurricular activities are regularly provided, and the area within a school
bus when that bus is being used to transport one or more elementary or
secondary school students.
   SECURED CONTAINER. A fastened case having no mechanical features designed
for immediate weapons removal or use. A SECURED CONTAINER may mean a weapon
case, such as leather, fibre, canvas, or plastic, secured with a zipper, clasp,
or buckle.
   SHURIKENS. Any metal device that has the shape of a multiple-pointed star,
each point being sharpened and primarily designed to be thrown.
   WEAPON. Any weapon or knife covered by this chapter.
('75 Code, § 11.601) (Ord. 1083.93, passed 5-6-93)
§ 132.02 ASSAULT WEAPONS RESTRICTED.
   No person except military personnel or peace officers engaged in the course
of their duties shall keep, carry, or have in his or her possession on any
public street, or being a trespasser upon the premises of another, or in a
public place, or in any school zone, or at any public event in the city any
assault weapon, unless he or she holds a permit to possess the same as a
collector's item or for use in an officially recognized competition.
('75 Code, § 11.602) (Ord. 1083.93, passed 5-6-93)
Penalty, see § 132.99
§ 132.03 KNIVES RESTRICTED.
   No person except military personnel or peace officers engaged in the course
of their duties shall keep, carry, or have a knife in his or her possession in
any public building, at any public event, in any park zone, or in any school
zone unless he or she holds a permit to possess the same as a collector's item
or for use in an officially recognized competition.
('75 Code, § 11.603) (Ord. 1083.93, passed 5-6-93)
Penalty, see § 132.99
§ 132.04 TRANSPORTATION AND CARRIAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Assault weapons.
      (1)   No person except military personnel or peace officers engaged in
the course of their duties shall transport assault weapons in a motor vehicle
within the city unless the assault weapon is placed in the trunk of the
vehicle; except if there is not a trunk, the assault weapon must be placed in a
secured container and placed in the farthest rear portion of the vehicle.
      (2)   No person except military personnel or peace officers engaged in
the course of their duties shall carry any assault weapons on his or her person
in the city unless the assault weapon is in a secured container and is being
carried between the home or business of the owner and a motor vehicle, weapons
dealer, hunting area, or an officially recognized competition.
   (B)   Knives. No person except military personnel or peace officers engaged
in the course of their duties shall carry any knife on his or her person or
transport any knife in a motor vehicle in the city unless the knife is in a
case or sheath and is not carried in a concealed manner.
   (C)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
transport by a person lawfully engaged in the business of making, selling, or
repairing firearms, assault weapons, or knives, nor to persons holding permits
to carry said weapons.
('75 Code, § 11.604) (Ord. 1083.93, passed 5-6-93)
Penalty, see § 132.99
§ 132.05 PERMITS.
   Permits required hereunder shall be obtained in the following manner: Any
person not prohibited from purchasing, owning, or possessing a handgun under
the Minnesota Statutes may obtain a permit to possess a military-type or
assault weapon as a collector's item or to possess a military-type weapon for
participation in an officially recognized competition upon application therefor
to the Chief of Police. Such application shall be in a form determined by the
Police Department and shall include a description in detail of the use to which
the weapon is to be put. The Chief of Police shall issue such permit if he or
she concludes the applicant has met the requirements of the application and
intends to use the weapon for a lawful purpose.
('75 Code, § 11.605) (Ord. 1083.93, passed 5-6-93)
§ 132.06 INVESTIGATORY STOPS; SEARCH AND SEIZURE.
   A peace officer may stop any person abroad on any public street or other
public space in the city whom the peace officer has reasonable grounds to
believe is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a felony or any
crime or offense involving the use of a weapon of any kind, and may demand such
person's name, address, and an explanation of his or her actions. When a peace
officer has stopped a person for questioning pursuant to this section and has
reasonable ground to believe that he or she or anyone else is in danger of life
or limb, the peace officer may search such person for a weapon. If a peace
officer finds a weapon or any other thing the possession of which may
constitute a crime or offense, the peace officer may take and keep it until the
completion of the questioning, at which time it shall either be returned, if
lawfully possessed, or retained in custody.
('75 Code, § 11.606) (Ord. 1083.93, passed 5-6-93)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor
and be penalized as provided in §
10.99. In addition, any assault weapon or knife in possession of such person
and used or possessed in violation of statute or ordinance shall be confiscated
and sold, destroyed, or otherwise disposed of by the Police Department.
Conviction of any violation shall work an automatic revocation of all permits
and licenses held hereunder by the violator.
('75 Code, § 11.607) (Ord. 1083.93, passed 5-6-93)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Minnesota State Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Establishment of Building Code Department and authorities
Permits
   
150.15   Plan checking fee
   
150.16   Permit exceptions
   
150.17   Permit for deposit of building materials; cleanup of waste matter
Manufactured Homes
   
150.30   Applicability of supplementary standards to manufactured homes
   
150.31   Pre-code manufactured homes
   
150.32   Minimum standards for manufactured homes
   
150.33   Inspection of manufactured homes; fee
   
150.34   Regulation by restrictive covenant
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 MINNESOTA STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. The Minnesota State Building Code, as adopted by the
Commissioner of Administration pursuant to M.S. §§ 16B.59 through 16B.75,
including all of the amendments, rules and regulations established, adopted and
published from time to time by the Minnesota Commissioner of Administration,
through the Building Codes and Standards Division is hereby adopted by
reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically
adopted in this section. The Minnesota State Building Code is hereby
incorporated in this section as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   Application, administration and enforcement. The application,
administration and enforcement of the code shall be in accordance with the
Minnesota State Building Code. The code shall be enforced within the
extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 16B.62, subdivision 1, when so
established by this section. The Building Inspection Division is the code
enforcement agency for the city. This code shall be enforced by the Minnesota
Certified Building Official designated by the city to administer the code
pursuant to M.S. § 16B.65, subdivision 1.
   (C)   Violations and penalties. A violation of the code is a misdemeanor
pursuant to M.S. § 16B.69 and Minnesota Rules, Chapter 1300.
   (D)   Permit, inspection, and fees. The issuance of permits and the
collection of fees shall be as authorized in M.S. 16B.62, subdivision 1. Permit
fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in accordance with the
fee schedule adopted by the city, In addition, a surcharge fee shall be
collected on all permits issued for work governed by this code in accordance
with M.S. § 16B.70.
   (E)   Building code optional chapters. The following optional chapters and
appendices are not a mandatory part of the Minnesota State Building Code but
are hereby adopted by reference for the city and are incorporated into this
code as completely as if set out in full herein.
      (1)   Chapter 1306 - Special Fire Protection Systems.
      (2)   Chapter 1335 - Flood Proofing Regulations, Parts 1335.0600 through
1335.1200.
      (3)   Appendix Chapter K (Grading), of the 2002 Supplements to the
International Building Code.
(Am. Ord. 1113.04, passed 2-23-04)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF BUILDING CODE DEPARTMENT AND AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   The Engineering Division shall be the Building Code Department of the
city. The Administrative Authority shall be a state-certified “Building
Inspector.”
   (B)   The Appointing Authority shall designate the Building Inspector for
the jurisdiction of the city.
('75 Code, § 20.20001) (Ord. 1078.92, passed 7-27-92; Am. Ord. 1092.95, passed
8-17-95)
Cross-reference:
   
Building Inspector, see § 31.21
   
Division of Engineering, see § 32.18
PERMITS
§ 150.15 PLAN CHECKING FEE.
   A plan checking fee of 65% of the building permit fee derived from Table No.
3-A of the State Uniform Building Code shall be charged each permit. The
Building Inspector may at his or her option submit the plans and specifications
to the State Building Department or a private consultant for plan review, and
assess any additional cost for that service to the plan checking fee.
('75 Code, § 20.0004) (Ord. 1078.92, passed 7-27-92)
Cross-reference:
   
Subdivisions; approval required before issuance of building permit, see §
153.20
§ 150.16 PERMIT EXCEPTIONS.
   No permit shall be required for detached tool sheds, utility buildings, or
playhouses that are less than 120 square feet in projected roof area. No permit
shall be required for other non-structural remodeling that has a total value of
$1,000 or less.
('75 Code, § 20.0005) (Ord. 1078.92, passed 7-27-92)
§ 150.17 PERMIT FOR DEPOSIT OF BUILDING MATERIALS; CLEANUP OF WASTE MATTER.
   No person shall deposit upon any street, avenue, alley, or other public
place or upon any private lot, vacant or occupied, any natural soil, earth,
sand, clay, gravel, lumber, stones, brick, cement, or other building materials
unless such person shall have first obtained a permit therefore from the City
Clerk. Under the permit, the City Engineer shall have sole authority as to
where the materials shall be deposited and for what period of time they may be
deposited there. The City Engineer may at any time revoke such permit if the
materials are not placed where directed or if said materials are deposited
thereon for an unreasonable length of time. The owner of property where such
building materials are deposited shall clean up and remove waste matter from
the premises when the materials have been disposed of or removed.
('75 Code, § 20.201)
Penalty, see § 150.99
Cross-reference:
   
Streets and sidewalks; obstructions, see § 92.03
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 150.30 APPLICABILITY OF SUPPLEMENTARY STANDARDS TO MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Manufactured homes as defined by M.S. § 327.31(G) may be permanently
placed in an “R” District only if all of the requirements of division (C) are
met.
   (B)   The provisions of division (C) shall not apply to manufactured homes
placed in manufactured home parks.
('75 Code, §§ 20.1018-20.19) (Ord. 1066.89, passed - -89)
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provisions of the Minnesota Statutes, the State
Building Code, or rules and/or regulations promulgated thereunder or other
ordinances of the city to the contrary, the following standards shall apply to
any residential structure erected or otherwise placed in the city including any
such structure moved from one location in the city to another:
      (1)   The structure shall have a permanent masonry or wood foundation
meeting the requirements of the State Building Code that shall be solid for the
complete circumference of the structure.
      (2)   The minimum average width of the structure and foundation shall be
20 feet.
      (3)   A single-family unit shall contain a minimum of 750 square feet.
      (4)   The structure shall have conventional siding, lapping the
foundation by a minimum of one inch.
      (5)   The structure shall be anchored in accordance with the State
Building Code.
      (6)   The structure shall have a pitched roof, covered with shingles or
tile, with a minimum of 12-inch eaves.
      (7)   The home shall comply with all zoning regulations for the zone in
which it is to be located.
      (8)   A building permit and any other required permits shall be obtained
for the home.
      (9)   The application for a building permit, in addition to the other
information required, shall include exterior elevations of the proposed
manufactured home which will adequately and accurately indicate the height,
size, design, and the appearance of all elevations of the proposed building and
a description of the construction and materials proposed to be used therein.
Such information shall indicate that the exterior architectural design, when
erected, will not be so at variance with, nor so dissimilar to, the exterior
architectural design of any structure or structures already constructed or in
the course of construction in the immediate neighborhood, not so at variance
with the character of the applicable district as to cause a substantial
depreciation in the property values of said neighborhood, within said
applicable district or elsewhere, or adversely affect the public health,
safety, morals, or general welfare.
('75 Code, § 20.1017) (Ord. 1066.89, passed - -89)
Penalty, see § 150.99
Cross-reference:
   
Zoning; relocation of dwellings, see § 154.025
§ 150.31 PRE-CODE MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   A PRE-CODE MANUFACTURED HOME is any manufactured home built prior to
HUD CFR 3280 (24 CFR 42.3280) Standards effective June 15, 1976, or built prior
to State of Minnesota inspection and certification in accordance with ANSI
(American National Standards Institute) Standards A119.1, July 1, 1972.
   (B)   No pre-code manufactured home shall be placed on any lot or within any
manufactured home park within the city unless it complies with the minimum
standards as set forth in §
150.32.
('75 Code, § 20.1021) (Ord. 1091.95, passed 4-6-95)
   (C)   The minimum standards set forth in §
150.32 shall not apply to any pre-code manufactured home which was in place
within the city as of March 16, 1995, so long as such manufactured home is not
removed to a different location.
('75 Code, § 20.1023) (Ord. 1091.95, passed 4-6-95)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.32 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Egress windows and exits.
      (1)   Each home shall have at least one egress window in each bedroom
that meets the minimum specifications of HUD 3280.106 (24 CFR 42.3280.106) and
3280.404 (24 CFR 42.3280.404) for manufactured homes. These standards require
that the window be at least 22 inches in the horizontal or vertical least
dimension and at least five square feet in area, and that the bottom of the
window opening shall be not more than 36 inches above the floor, and that locks
and latches which need to be operated to permit exiting not be located more
than 54 inches above the finished floor. If the requirements of the State
Building Code and/or ANSI A119.1 1972 are met, the home shall be deemed to be
in compliance with this subdivision.
      (2)   The home shall have two exterior exit doors located remote from
each other as required in HUD 3280.105 (24 CFR 42.3280.105). These standards
require single-section manufactured homes to have the doors not less than 12
feet center to center from each other and multi-section manufactured home doors
to be not less than 20 feet center to center from each other measured in a
straight line regardless of the length of path of travel between doors. One of
the required exit doors must be accessible from the doorway of each bedroom
without traveling more than 35 feet. Exterior swing doors shall have a minimum
28-inch by 74-inch clear opening and sliding glass doors shall have a 28-inch
by 72-inch clear opening. Each exterior door other than screen/storm doors
shall have a key-operated lock that has a deadlocking latch or a key-operated
dead bolt with a passage latch, and locks shall not require the use of a key or
special tool for operation from the inside of the home.
   (B)   Flame spread.
      (1)   Walls and ceilings adjacent to or enclosing a furnace or water
heater shall have an interior finish with flame spread rating not exceeding 25.
Sealants and other trim materials two inches or less used to finish adjacent
surfaces within these spaces are exempt from this provision provided all joints
are supported by framing members or materials with a 25 or less flame spread
rating. Combustible doors providing interior or exterior access to furnace and
water heater spaces shall be covered with materials of limited combustion
(i.e., 5/16-inch gypsum board, etc.) with the surface allowed to be interrupted
for louvers ventilating the space. However, the louvers shall not be of
materials of greater combustibility than the door itself (i.e., plastic louvers
and a wooden door). Reference HUD 3280.203 (24 CFR 42.3280.203).
      (2)   Exposed interior finished surfaces, including vertical surfaces
between a range top and overhead cabinets and/or ceiling, shall have a flame
spread rating not exceeding 50 as required by HUD 3280.203 (24 CFR
42.3280.203). Back splashes not exceeding 6 inches in height are exempted.
Vertical clearance above cook tops and ranges shall be not less than 24 inches
as required by HUD 3280.709 (24 CFR 42.3280.709).
   (C)   Smoke detectors.
      (1)   A smoke detector shall be installed on any wall in the hallway or
space communicating with each bedroom area between the living area and the
first bedroom as required by HUD 3280.208 (24 CFR 42.3280.208). Homes with
bedroom areas separated by any one or a combination of common-use areas such as
a kitchen, dining room, living room, or family room (but not a bathroom or
utility room) shall be required to have one detector for each bedroom area.
      (2)   Smoke detectors shall not have switches in the circuit to the
detector between the over-current protection device protecting the branch
circuit and the detector. The detector shall be attached to an electrical
outlet box and connected by a permanent wiring method into a general electrical
circuit. The detector shall not be placed on a branch circuit or any circuit
protected by a ground fault circuit interrupter.
   (D)   Solid fuel burning stoves and fireplaces.
      (1)   Solid fuel burning, factory-built fireplaces and fireplace stoves
may be used in manufactured (mobile) homes provided that they are listed for
use in manufactured homes and installed as per their listing/manufacturer's
instructions and the minimum requirements of HUD 3280.710 (24 CFR 42.3280.710).
      (2)   A solid fuel burning fireplace or fireplace stove shall be equipped
with integral doors designed to close the fire chamber opening and shall
include complete means for venting through the roof, a combustion air inlet, or
hearth extension, and means to securely attach the unit to the manufactured
home structure.
         (a)   A listed factory-built chimney designed to be attached directly
to the fireplace/fireplace stove and equipped with, in accordance with the
listing, a termination device and spark arrester shall be required. The chimney
shall extend at least three feet above the part of the roof through which it
passes and at least two feet above the highest elevation of any part of the
manufactured home within ten feet of the chimney.
         (b)   An air intake assembly shall be installed in accordance with the
terms of listing/manufacturer's instructions. A combustion air inlet shall
conduct the air directly into the fire chamber and shall be designed to prevent
material from the hearth dropping onto the area beneath the manufactured home.
         (c)   The hearth extension shall be of noncombustible material a
minimum of €-inch thick, shall extend a minimum of 16 inches in front and eight
inches beyond each side of the fireplace/fireplace stove opening. The hearth
shall also extend over the entire surface beneath a fire place stove and
beneath an elevated or overhanging fireplace.
   (E)   Support systems. Pre-code homes built prior to June 15, 1976, are
required to be installed (set-up) in accordance with the standards of the State
Building Code, Chapter 1350.
   (F)   Aluminum wiring. All electrical systems shall be tested for continuity
to assure that metallic parts are properly bonded, shall be tested for
operation to demonstrate that all equipment is connected and in working order,
and shall undergo a polarity check to determine that connections are proper.
The electrical system shall be properly protected for the required amperage
load. If the unit is of aluminum conductors, all receptacles and switches rated
20 amperes or less directly connected to the aluminum conductor shall be marked
CO/ALR. Exterior receptacles other than heat tape receptacles shall be of the
ground fault circuit interrupter (G.I.) type. Conductors of dissimilar metals
(copper/aluminum/or copper-clad aluminum) must be connected in accordance with
the National Electrical Code.
   (G)   Replacement furnaces and water heaters.
      (1)   If the manufactured (mobile) home has had or is to receive a
replacement furnace or water heater, it shall be listed for use in a
manufactured (mobile) home. Vents, roof jacks, and chimneys necessary for the
installation shall be listed for use with the furnace or water heater.
      (2)   The furnace and water heater shall be secured in place to avoid
displacement. Every furnace and water heater shall be accessible for servicing
and/or replacement.
      (3)   Furnaces and water heaters shall be installed to provide complete
separation of the combustion system from the interior atmosphere of the
manufactured home as required by HUD 3280.709 (24 CFR 42.3280.709).
      (4)   The floor area in the water heater area shall be free from damage
from moisture and the like, to assure that the floor will support the weight of
the water heater and water contained within.
   (H)   Gas line testing. The gas piping for each pre-code home shall be
tested with the appliance valves removed from the piping and capped at those
areas. The piping shall withstand a pressure of at least six inches mercury or
3 psi gauge for a period of not less than ten minutes without showing any drop
in pressure. Pressure shall be measured with a mercury manometer, a slope gauge
calibrated so as to read in increments of not greater than 1/10 pound, or an
equivalent device. The source of normal operating pressure shall be isolated
before the pressure test is made. After the appliance connections are
reinstalled, the piping system and connections shall be tested with line
pressure of not less than ten inches nor more than 14 inches water column air
pressure. The appliance connections shall be tested for leakage with soapy
water or bubble solution.
('75 Code, § 20.1022) (Ord. 1091.95, passed 4-6-95)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.33 INSPECTION OF MANUFACTURED HOMES; FEE.
   Prior to connection of any municipal utility to a manufactured home placed
on any lot or within any manufactured home park within the city, said
manufactured home shall be inspected by the City Building Inspector and shall
be in compliance with the provisions of §
150.32. The owner or occupant of said manufactured home shall make application
in writing to the city hall for inspection prior to locating said manufactured
home within the city, which application shall be accompanied by an inspection
fee as may be adopted from time to time by Council resolution or ordinance.
('75 Code, § 20.1024) (Ord. 1091.95, passed 4-6-95)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.34 REGULATION BY RESTRICTIVE COVENANT.
   Nothing in §
150.30 shall prevent the further regulation of uses of property by means of
restrictive covenants.
('75 Code, § 20.1020) (Ord. 1066.89, passed - -89)
Cross-reference:
   
Zoning code; zoning districts, see § 154.055 et seq.
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and penalized as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 151: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
151.01   Purpose and findings
   
151.02   Economic Development Commission; authority of Commission
   
151.03   Powers of city
   
151.04   Funds
   
151.05   Geographical limits of city authority
   
151.06   Cooperation with other economic development agencies
§ 151.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared that the economic growth and development of the
city is dependent upon attracting new enterprises to the city and its
surrounding area, the retention and development of existing enterprises, and
the promotion of job-creation activities and enterprises.
   (B)   To accomplish such purposes it is declared that the city shall
discover, acquire, and use money or other property from all lawful sources,
accept contributions, grants, gifts, services, or other assistance from the
federal or state governments, and provide and use the funds and resources of
the city for such purposes.
   (C)   The objectives and purposes as set forth in this chapter are hereby
declared to be a public purpose for the city.
('75 Code, § 19.800) (Ord. 1049.84, passed 7-12-84; Am. Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-
7-88)
§ 151.02 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION; AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   Economic Development Commission.
      (1)   Composition. There is hereby created an Economic Development
Commission consisting of five Commissioners appointed by the City Council, two
of whom shall initially serve for a term of four years, and the remainder for
terms of one, two, and three years, respectively. Thereafter, all Commissioners
shall be appointed for four-year terms. Each vacancy in an unexpired term shall
be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
Members of the City Council shall be eligible to serve as Commissioners. All
Commissioners shall serve without compensation, but shall be entitled to
receive necessary expenses, including travel expenses, included in the
performance of their duties.
      (2)   Organization, meetings, and the like. The Commission shall select a
Chairperson and a Secretary from among its Commissioners to serve for a one-
year term and shall adopt such rules for the conduct of its affairs a it deems
appropriate. It shall meet upon the call and notice of its Chairperson.
      (3)   Purposes and powers of Commission.
         (a)   The Commission shall initiate, receive, discover, propose, and
recommend economic or job-development projects for the city and its surrounding
area.
         (b)   The Commission shall consider and receive proposals for economic
or job-development projects within the city or its surrounding area.
         (c)   The Commission shall discover resources and methods to provide
funding and other assistance to accomplish the purposes of this chapter.
         (d)   The Commission shall do any and all other things necessary and
proper to carry out and fulfill the purposes of this chapter.
         (e)   The Commission shall act only in an advisory capacity to the
City Council and shall have no power to legislate or transact any business for
the city.
   (B)   Authority of Commission. The Council of the city shall have the sole
and exclusive authority in carrying out the provisions of this chapter and the
Economic Development Commission created hereunder shall act only in an advisory
capacity to the City Council and said Commission shall have no authority to
transact any business for and in behalf of the city, legislate any matters for
or in behalf of the city, or legally bind or commit the city in any matters,
act, or thing in carrying out its duties as provided for herein.
('75 Code, §§ 19.801 and 19.805) (Ord. 1049.84, passed 7-12-84; Am. Ord.
1062.88, passed 1-7-88)
§ 151.03 POWERS OF CITY.
   The city is hereby authorized to exercise all powers necessary or convenient
to carry out the purposes of this chapter and shall also have the following
powers in addition thereto:
   (A)   To promote and assist in projects, programs, activities, and
enterprises for economic development and growth for the city and its
surrounding areas;
   (B)   To encourage and assist in the retention and development of existing
enterprises in the city and its surrounding area;
   (C)   To promote and assist in job-creation enterprises in the city and its
surrounding area;
   (D)   To acquire real and personal property or any interest therein by gift,
grant, purchase, exchange, lease, transfer, bequest, devise, or otherwise, and
also to acquire real estate by eminent domain to accomplish the purposes of
this chapter;
   (E)   To cooperate with industrial development corporations, state and
federal agencies, and private persons or corporations in its effort to promote
and accomplish the purposes of this chapter;
   (F)   To conduct studies and investigations for the purpose of obtaining
information concerning enterprises, activities, projects, and proposals
relating to the purposes of this chapter;
   (G)   To cooperate with and act as agent for the federal government, the
state, and any other state public body or any agency or instrumentality thereof
in carrying out the provisions of this chapter or any related federal, state,
or local legislation;
   (H)   To consider the recommendations and proposals of the Economic
Development Commission created herein and also to refer all matters it deems
necessary to said Commission for its consideration, study, recommendations, or
other appropriate action;
   (I)   To sell, transfer, convey, or otherwise dispose of real or personal
property or any interest therein, and to execute such leases, deeds,
conveyances, negotiable instruments, purchase agreements, and other contracts
or instruments and take such other action as may be necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter. This chapter shall constitute authority to sell or
otherwise transfer real estate to accomplish the purposes of this chapter
without enactment of any other ordinance to authorize the sale of real estate;
   (J)   To make loans on such terms and conditions as may be approved by the
City Council to accomplish the purposes of this chapter.
('75 Code, § 19.802)
§ 151.04 FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to discover, acquire, use, and disburse
funds and property from all lawful sources to carry out the purposes of this
chapter, including but not limited to the acceptance of contributions, grants,
gifts, services, or other assistance from federal or state governments or their
respective agencies or instrumentalities.
   (B)   The city shall have authority to use and disburse its funds to
accomplish the purposes of this chapter, except as prohibited by the City
Charter or the laws of the state.
   (C)   The city shall establish an Economic Development Revolving Loan Fund
for the purpose of providing a separate fund for the deposit of all funds to be
used for the making of loans under this chapter and for the deposit of all
payments made on such loans and to provide an accounting therefrom.
('75 Code, § 19.803) (Ord. 1049.84, passed 7-12-84; Am. Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-
7-88)
§ 151.05 GEOGRAPHICAL LIMITS OF CITY AUTHORITY.
   The city shall have authority to engage in projects and enterprises under
the provisions of this chapter within the enterprises under the provisions of
this chapter within the geographical limits of the city as well as its
surrounding area, provided, however, that the City Council shall make a
specific finding by resolution that such projects and enterprises located
outside of the geographical limits of the city are for the economic development
and growth of the city as contemplated and intended by the provisions of this
chapter.
('75 Code, § 19.804) (Ord. 1049.84, passed 7-12-84; Am. Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-
7-88)
§ 151.06 COOPERATION WITH OTHER ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES.
   The Economic Development Commission and the city shall cooperate with all
other local agencies in carrying out the purposes of this chapter, to
specifically include the Future Development Committee, the Benson Industrial
Development Corporation, and the Benson Area Chamber of Commerce, and the city
does solicit their cooperation and assistance in achieving these objectives.
('75 Code, § 19.806) (Ord. 1049.84, passed 7-12-84; Am. Ord. 1062.88, passed 1-
7-88)
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING
Section
Planning Commission
   
152.01   Establishment of Commission
   
152.02   Composition; term of office; compensation
   
152.03   Organization, meetings, operations, and duties
   
152.04   Program of Work
City Planning
   
152.15   City Plan; hearings; amendments
   
152.16   Zoning Plan; hearings
   
152.17   Hearings on street and other plans, conditional uses, and variances
   
152.18   Amendments to Zoning Plan, street and other plans, and regulations
   
152.19   Official Map of city; effect on noncomplying premises
   
152.20   Plat approval; geographical limits of city authority
Cross-reference:
   
Commissions, see Ch. 32
   
Department of Planning and Development, see § 32.19
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 152.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   A Planning Commission is hereby established.
('75 Code, § 19.101)
Cross-reference:
   
Director of Planning and Development oversight of Planning Commission, see §
32.19
§ 152.02 COMPOSITION; TERM OF OFFICE; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Such Planning Commission shall consist of nine members. Six members
shall be appointed by the City Council and may be removed by a four-fifths vote
of the Council. The Council shall select one member of the Commission from
among its own members whose term shall correspond with his or her official
tenure. The City Engineer and the City Attorney shall be members ex officio
without authority to vote.
   (B)   Of the members of the Commission first appointed, two shall be for the
term of one year, two for the term of two years, two for the term of three
years. Their successors shall be appointed for terms of three years. Both
original and successive appointees shall hold their offices until their
successors are appointed and qualified. The terms of ex officio members shall
correspond to their respective official tenures. Vacancies during the term
shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired portion of the term. Every
appointed member shall before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties
take an oath that he or she will faithfully discharge the duties of office. All
members shall serve without compensation.
('75 Code, § 19.102) (Am. Ord. 1003.77, passed 9-15-77)
§ 152.03 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS, OPERATIONS, AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its appointed
members for a term of one year; and the Commission may create and fill such
other offices as it may determine. The Clerk shall act as Secretary of the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each month. It
shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of
its resolutions, transactions, and findings, which record shall be a public
record. On or before January 1 of each year the Commission shall submit to the
City Council a report of its work during the preceding year. Expenditures of
the Commission shall be within amounts appropriated for the purpose by the
Council.
('75 Code, § 19.103)
Cross-reference:
   
Planning Commission duties in regard to zoning, see §§ 154.177 through 154.180
§ 152.04 PROGRAM OF WORK.
   (A)   Upon the appointment and organization of the Commission, it shall
proceed with the preparation and adoption of resolution of a Program of Work,
outlining activities proposed to be undertaken in the exercise of its powers
and the performance of its duties. Such Program will include:
      (1)   An outline of data and information to be assembled as a basis for
the City Plan;
      (2)   An outline of subjects to be covered by the City Plan;
      (3)   An outline of types of procedure necessary to make the City Plan
effective.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may, by resolution, revise its Program of Work
from time to time.
('75 Code, § 19.104)
   (C)   Each officer, department, board, or commission of or in the city whose
functions include recommending, preparing plans for, or constructing public
works shall, at least three months before the end of each fiscal year, submit
to the Planning Commission a list of the proposed public works recommended by
such officer, department, board, or commission for planning, initiation, or
construction during the ensuing fiscal year. The Planning Commission shall
request from the local school district a similar list of its proposed public
works. The Planning Commission shall list and classify all such proposed public
works and shall prepare a coordinated program of proposed public works for the
ensuing fiscal year. Such program shall be recommended by the Commission to the
Council and to such other officers, departments, boards, or public bodies as
have jurisdiction over the recommending, planning, or constructing of such
public works. A copy of such recommended program of public works shall be
included in the annual report of the Planning Commission.
('75 Code, § 19.614)
CITY PLANNING
§ 152.15 CITY PLAN; HEARINGS; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Preparation. It shall be the function and duty of the Planning
Commission to prepare and adopt a comprehensive City Plan for the physical
development of the city, including proposed public buildings, street
arrangements and improvements, public utility services, parks, playgrounds, and
other similar developments, the use of property, the density of population, and
other matters relating to the physical development of the city. Such Plan may
be prepared in sections, each of which shall relate to a major subject of the
Plan, as outlined in the Commission's Program of Work.
   (B)   Hearings; adoption and amendment. 
      (1)   Before adopting the City Plan or any section of it or any
substantial amendment thereof, the Commission shall hold at least one public
hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall be given by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten days before the
day of the hearing. The adoption of the City Plan or any section or amendment
thereof shall be by resolution of the Commission, approved by the affirmative
votes of not less than two-thirds of its total membership. The Commission may
from time to time amend or add to the City Plan or section thereof as herein
provided for the adoption of the original Plan whenever changed conditions or
further studies by the Commission indicate that such amendment or addition is
necessary.
      (2)   An attested copy of the Plan or of any section, amendment, or
addition to the City Plan adopted by the Planning Commission shall be certified
to the Council.
   (C)   Execution.
      (1)   Upon the adoption of the City Plan or any section thereof, it shall
be the duty of the Planning Commission to recommend to the Council reasonable
and practicable means for putting into effect such Plan or section thereof in
order that the same will serve as a pattern and guide for the orderly physical
development of the city and as a basis for the efficient expenditure of the
funds thereof relating to the subjects of such City Plan.
      (2)   Such means shall consist of a Zoning Plan, the control of
subdivision plats, a plan of future streets, coordination of the normal public
improvements of the city, a long-term program of capital expenditures and such
other matters as will accomplish the purposes of this section.
('75 Code, §§ 19.201-19.203)
Cross-reference:
   
Subdivisions; easements, see § 153.46
§ 152.16 ZONING PLAN; HEARINGS.
   The Planning Commission upon its own motion may and upon instructions by the
Council shall prepare a proposed Zoning Plan for the city. Before recommending
such Plan to the Council, the Planning Commission shall hold at least one
public hearing thereon after a notice similar to that required by §
152.15.
('75 Code, § 19.204)
§ 152.17 HEARINGS ON STREET AND OTHER PLANS, CONDITIONAL USES, AND VARIANCES.
   The procedure in §
152.16 shall apply for the preparation of any plan of proposed rights-of-way
for future streets or highways, or the future widening of existing streets or
highways, or for the reservation of lands for other public purposes, or for
conditional uses or variances.
('75 Code, § 19.204)
§ 152.18 AMENDMENTS TO ZONING PLAN, STREET AND OTHER PLANS, AND REGULATIONS.
   No change shall be made in the Zoning Plan, Future Street and Public Lands
Plan, or regulations governing the platting of land after such plans or
regulations have been adopted by the City Council until the proposed change has
been filed with the Council; and no ordinance or resolution establishing any of
such plans or specifications shall be adopted by the City Council until such
ordinance or resolution has been referred to the Planning Commission for a
report thereon and an attested copy of such report has been filed with the
Council. Failure of the Planning Commission so to report within 40 days or such
longer period as may be designated by the Council after such reference shall be
deemed to be approval of the proposed change.
('75 Code, § 19.613)
§ 152.19 OFFICIAL MAP OF CITY; EFFECT ON NONCOMPLYING PREMISES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, with the assistance of the City Engineer,
may, and upon instruction by the Council shall, prepare an Official Map of the
platted and unplanted portions of the city and adjoining territory, or portions
thereof, indicating upon such map the proposed future extension or widening of
streets of the city within such existing platted and developed territory or
across such unplanted territory.
   (B)   After such Map has been prepared and a hearing on it has been held as
provided in §
152.16, it shall be submitted to the Council, which shall thereupon consider
such Map and may adopt it or any part of it with such amendments as it deems
advisable. Before such adoption by the Council, a public hearing shall be held
upon the proposal at least ten days after notice thereof has been published in
the city. After such Map has been adopted by the Council and filed with the
Register of Deeds, whenever any existing street or highway is widened or
improved, or any new street is opened, or lands for other purposes are acquired
by action of the city it shall not be required in such proceedings to pay for
any building or structure placed without a permit or in violation of conditions
of a permit after the filing of such a Map within the limits of the mapped
street, or outside of any building line that may have been established upon the
existing street, or within any area thus reserved for public purposes.
('75 Code, § 19.205)
§ 152.20 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL; GEOGRAPHICAL LIMITS OF CITY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Every proposed plat of land within the city or within two miles of the
limits of the city and not within a town which itself requires the approval of
plats shall be submitted to the Council before being filed and no plat of land
shall be filed unless and until the same first have been approved by the
Council.
   (B)   Any person who violates this provision or who sells land, offers land
for sale, or contracts for the sale of land by references to or by other use of
any plat before such plat has been approved by the Planning Commission and the
City Council in accordance with the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in §
152.99. Before acting on such plat the City Council shall submit the same to
the Planning Commission for its recommendations.
   (C)   The Planning Commission, within 40 days after any such plat has been
referred to it by the City Council, shall act on the same and shall make its
recommendations with respect thereto. Such recommendations may consist of:
      (1)   A recommendation that the Council approve such plat; or
      (2)   A recommendation that the Council disapprove such plat, in which
case such recommendation shall include a statement of the specific reasons for
such recommendations; or
      (3)   A recommendation that the Council approve such plat after specified
changes or revisions are made therein, which recommendations may include the
condition that a revised plat containing such changes or revisions be submitted
to the Planning Commission, in which case such revised plat shall be so
submitted to the Planning Commission for its further consideration and
recommendations before action thereon by the Council.
('75 Code, § 19.206)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates §
152.20(B) shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or by imprisonment
for not more than 90 days.
('75 Code, § 19.206)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Applicability of provisions; geographical limits
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Public sites and open spaces
   
153.05   Registered land surveys
   
153.06   Variances
   
153.07   Non-residential subdivisions; waiver of requirements and payments
Preliminary Plan and Final Plat Approval
   
153.20   Approval required
   
153.21   Preliminary plan contents
   
153.22   Preliminary plan procedure and approval
   
153.23   Preliminary plan approval qualifications
   
153.24   Final plat contents
   
153.25   Final plat procedure and approval
Design Standards
   
153.35   City Plan conformity
   
153.36   Street plan
   
153.37   Streets
   
153.38   Alleys
   
153.39   Intersections
   
153.40   Curbs and gutters
   
153.41   Sidewalks
   
153.42   Pedestrian ways
   
153.43   Water supply
   
153.44   Sewage disposal
   
153.45   Drainage
   
153.46   Easements
   
153.47   Street trees
   
153.48   Street names
   
153.49   Blocks
   
153.50   Lots
   
153.51   Waiver of minimum standards
Required Improvements
   
153.65   Required improvements agreement
   
153.66   Cost allocation agreement
   
153.67   Bond or deposit for incomplete work
   
153.68   Construction plans; approval
   
153.69   Inspections; certificate of compliance
   
153.70   Improvements completed prior to approval of final plat
Cross-reference:
   
Planning Commission, see § 152.01 et seq.
   
Community unit development, see § 154.027 and
§ 154.040 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   Each new subdivision becomes a permanent unit in the basic physical
structure of the future community, a unit to which the future community will of
necessity be forced to adhere. Piecemeal planning of such subdivisions, without
correlation to the City Plan, will bring a disconnected patchwork of plats and
poor circulation of traffic. In order that new subdivisions will contribute
toward an attractive, orderly, stable, and wholesale community environment,
adequate municipal services, and efficient movement of traffic, all
subdivisions hereafter platted within the jurisdiction of the city shall, in
all respects, fully comply with the regulations hereinafter set forth. In their
interpretation and application the provisions of these regulations shall be the
minimum requirements adopted for the protection of the public health, safety,
and general welfare.
('75 Code, § 19.601)
§ 153.02 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS; GEOGRAPHICAL LIMITS.
   The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivisions of land contained
herein shall apply within the city and to land within one mile of its corporate
limits except when:
   (A)   Each division consists of parcels having an area of 2½ acres or of
parcels without a frontage on a public right-of-way measuring 150 feet or more
and when such division does not necessitate the dedication of a public right-of
way;
   (B)   The division is within 1 mile jurisdictional limit where only those
regulations applying to the dedication of public rights-of-way and other public
lands as indicated on the Comprehensive City Plan shall apply;
   (C)   A lot which is part of a plat recorded in the office of the Register
of Deeds of the county is to be divided and the division will not cause any
structure on the lot to be in violation of the required yards, or the lot to be
in violation of the required area or dimension. It is not intended by the
regulations to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way impair or interfere with
private restrictions placed upon property by deed, covenant, or other private
agreements which are equal to or more restrictive, or with restrictive
covenants running with the land to which the city is a party, except that the
most restrictive shall apply.
('75 Code, § 19.602)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A minor way which is used primarily for vehicular service access to
the back or side of properties abutting on a street.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, or by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, or by a combination of the above with a river or lake.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line and
the property line.
   BUTT LOT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner lots.
   CITY PLAN. A comprehensive plan adopted by the Council indicating the
general locations recommended for the various functional classes of public
works, places, and structures, for the general physical development of the
city, and includes any unit or part of such Plan separately adopted and any
amendment to such Plan or parts thereof.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from minor streets to
thoroughfares or from thoroughfare to thoroughfare. It includes the principal
entrance streets of a residential development and streets for circulation
within such a development.
   CULL-DE-SAC. A minor street with only one outlet and having a turn around.
   EASEMENT. A grant by an owner of land for the specific use of said land by
the public generally, or to a person or persons.
   FINAL PLAT. The final map drawing or chart on which the subdivide's plan or
subdivision is presented to the Council for approval and which, if approved,
will be submitted to the County Register of Deeds or Register of Titles. The
plat must conform to all state laws.
   LOT. A parcel of land consisting of one or more portions of lots as
designated on a plat recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the
county, or a parcel of land designated by metes and bounds by a registered land
surveyor, or on auditor's plats and with such designation being recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds prior to the effective date of these
regulations.
   MINIMUM SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS. The guides, principals, and
specifications for the preparation of subdivision plans indicating, among other
things, the minimum and maximum dimensions of the various elements set forth in
the preliminary plan.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust, or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under these regulations.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. The right-of-way across or within a block for use by
pedestrian traffic whether designated as a pedestrian way, crosswalk, or
however otherwise designated.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate or partnership,
corporation, trust, or other legal entity.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Benson Planning Commission.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. The preliminary map, drawing, or chart indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission
and Council for their consideration, in compliance with the City Plan and these
regulations, along with required supporting data.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts entered into between private parties which
constitute a restriction on the use of all private property within a
subdivision for the benefit of the property owners and provide mutual
protection against undesirable aspects of development which would tend to
impair stability of values.
   SERVICE STREET. A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to a
thoroughfare and which provides access to abutting properties and protection
from through traffic.
   STREET. A way for vehicular and pedestrian traffic whether designated as a
street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, land place,
or however otherwise designated.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right-
of-way of a street.
   SUBDIVIDE. Any person commencing proceedings under these regulations to
effect a subdivision of land hereunder for him- or herself or for another.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels, any of which resultant parcels is less than 2½ acres in area, for the
purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, or, if a new street
is involved, any division of a parcel of land. The term includes resubdivision,
and when appropriate to the context shall relate to the process of subdividing
or to the land subdivided.
   THOROUGHFARE. A street primarily designated to carry large volumes of
intercity and intercity traffic.
('75 Code, § 19.603)
§ 153.04 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   Where a proposed park, playground, school site, or other public site as
shown on the Comprehensive City Plan is embraced in part or in whole by the
boundary of a proposed subdivision and such public site is not dedicated to the
city or Board of Education, such public ground shall be reserved and no action
taken towards approval of the preliminary plan or final plat for a period not
to exceed 90 days to allow the Council or Board of Education opportunity to
consider and take action towards acquisition of such public ground or park by
purchase or other means.
('75 Code, § 19.610)
§ 153.05 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS.
   All registered land surveys in the city shall be filed with the Clerk and be
subject to the same procedure as required for the filing of a preliminary plan
for platting purposes. The standards and requirements set forth in this chapter
shall apply to all registered land surveys. Unless the Planning Commission and
Council shall approve the registered land survey in accordance with this code,
building permits on the tracts shall be withheld, tracts set aside for street
purposes shall not be accepted, and no public money shall be spent towards
installing utilities or improvements.
('75 Code, § 19.611) (Am. Ord. 1085.93, passed 11-4-93)
§ 153.06 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Complete neighborhood. The Council upon receiving a report from the
Planning Commission may grant a variance from these regulations in case of a
subdivision large enough to constitute a more or less self-contained
neighborhood provided the Council receives adequate safeguards to assure
development according to a plan. Said plan shall not be in conflict with the
Major Street Plan and shall in the opinion of the Council provide adequate
public open space and be a desirable community development.
   (B)   Minor subdivision. In case of a subdivision of small size and of minor
importance situated in a locality where conditions are well-defined, the
Planning Commission may exempt the subdivide from complying with some of the
requirements stipulated in §
153.21 pertaining to the preparation of the preliminary plan. In the case of a
request to divide a lot which is a part of a recorded plat where the division
is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to an abutting lot or to create two
lots and the newly created property line will not cause the other remaining
portion of the lot to be in violation of this chapter or the zoning chapter,
the division may be approved by the Council after submission of a survey by a
registered land surveyor showing the original lot and the proposed division.
   (C)   Factors in granting variances. The Council may grant a variance upon
receiving a report from the Planning Commission in any particular case where
the subdivide can show that by reason of exceptional topography or other
physical conditions strict compliance with these regulations could cause an
exceptional and undue hardship on the enjoyment of a substantial property
right, provided such relief may be granted without detriment to the public
welfare and without impairing the intent and purpose of these regulations, or
in any particular case where an owner or subdivide can show that strict
compliance with these regulations is unreasonable. The Planning Commission and
Council may take into consideration the present and possible future use of the
property and the possible benefits that may inure to the city.
   (D)   Application for variance. Application for any such variance shall be
made in writing by the subdivide at the time when the preliminary plan is filed
for consideration by the Council stating fully all facts relied upon by the
petitioner, and shall be supplemented with maps, plans, or other additional
data which may aid the Planning Commission and Council in the analysis of the
proposed project. The plans for the development shall include such covenants,
restrictions, or other legal provisions necessary to guarantee the full
achievement of the plan.
   (E)   Recording of granted variances. Any variance or modification thus
granted shall be recorded in resolution form and entered in the minutes of the
Council setting forth the reasons which justified the action.
('75 Code, § 19.612)
Cross-reference:
   
Planning Commission; hearings on variances, see § 152.17
§ 153.07 NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS; WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Modification or waiver of improvements. Upon receipt of a report from
the Planning Commission stating that any or all of the specific site
requirements enumerated below are not necessary on a non-residential
subdivision, the City Council may modify or waive any or all such requirements:
      (1)   Installation of monuments;
      (2)   Grading of streets and alleys;
      (3)   Construction of bases and sub-bases for streets and alleys;
      (4)   Installation of permanent curbs and gutters;
      (5)   Water supply;
      (6)   Sewage disposal;
      (7)   Drainage;
      (8)   Sidewalks.
   (B)   Modification or waiver of payment methods. It is further established
that upon receipt of a report from the Planning Commission recommending the
modification of or waiving of any and all payment methods, the City Council may
modify or waive any or all such payment methods for the payment of improvements
enumerated in (A) above in non-residential subdivisions.
   (C)   Application and approval for modifications or waivers.  Applications
and approval for modifications or waivers of improvements and/or payment
methods shall be made as set forth in §
153.06.
('75 Code, § 19.615)
PRELIMINARY PLAN AND FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
§ 153.20 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Unless approved as a final plat as provided herein, no subdivision shall be
entitled to be recorded in the County Register's office or have any validity;
and the Building Inspector shall not issue building permits for any structure
on a lot in any proposed subdivision. The Council shall not permit any public
improvements to be installed unless the preliminary plan is approved and shall
not permit any services until approval of the final plat.
('75 Code, § 19.604)
§ 153.21 PRELIMINARY PLAN CONTENTS.
   The preliminary plan of the proposed subdivision shall contain or have
attached thereto the following information:
   (A)   Identification and description.
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision, which name shall not
duplicate or be alike in pronunciation of the name of any plat theretofore
recorded in the county;
      (2)   A legal description of the property according to the records in the
office of the County Register of Deeds;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the owner and any agent having control of
the land, and the subdivide, surveyor, engineer, and designer of the plan;
      (4)   A graphic scale not less than one inch to 100 feet;
       (5)   A North point.
   (B)   Existing conditions.
      (1)   A boundary line survey including measured distances and angles
which shall be tied to the nearest ¼-corner or section corner by traverse;
      (2)   Existing zoning classifications;
      (3)   The total acreage;
      (4)   The location and names of existing or platted streets or other
public ways, parks and other public lands, permanent buildings and structures,
easements, and section and corporate lines within the preliminary plan and to a
distance 100 feet beyond;
      (5)   The location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts, or
other underground facilities within the preliminary plan area and to a distance
of 100 feet beyond. Such data as grades, invert elevations, and locations of
catch basins, manholes, and hydrants shall also be shown;
      (6)   The boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided land or subdivided
land within 100 feet, identifying by name and ownership;
      (7)   Topographic data including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than two feet, except where the horizontal contour interval is 100 feet or
more, a one-foot vertical interval shall be shown. Watercourses, marshes,
wooded areas, rock outcrops, power transmission poles and lines, and other
significant features shall also be shown;
      (8)   U.S.G.S. (United States Geological Survey) datums shall be used for
all topographic mapping. A copy of all proposed private restrictions shall be
submitted.
   (C)   Subdivision design features to be shown.
      (1)   The layout of proposed streets showing right-of-way width and
proposed names of streets;
      (2)   The location and widths of proposed alleys, pedestrian ways, and
utility easements;
      (3)   Typical cross-sections of proposed improvements upon streets and
alleys, together with an indication as to the method of disposing of the
proposed storm water runoff;
      (4)   The approximate center-line gradients of proposed streets and
alleys;
      (5)   The location, size, and approximate gradient of proposed sanitary
sewer lines and water mains;
      (6)   The layout, numbers, and preliminary dimensions of lots and blocks;
      (7)   Areas, other than streets, alleys, pedestrian ways, and utility
easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of such areas in acres.
   (D)   Other information.
      (1)   A statement of the proposed use of lots stating the type of
residential buildings with the number of proposed dwelling units; and the type
of business or industry so as to reveal the effect of the development on
traffic, fire hazards, or congestion of population;
      (2)   The source of water supply;
      (3)   Provisions for sewage disposal, drainage, and flood control;
      (4)   If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan
for the areas, including dimensions.
('75 Code, § 19.606)
§ 153.22 PRELIMINARY PLAN PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Before dividing any tract of land into two or more lots or parcels, an
owner or subdivide shall, unless a variance is authorized, file with the City
Manager:
      (1)   Four copies of the preliminary plan;
      (2)   A cash fee for each lot shall be as may be adopted from time to
time by Council resolution or ordinance. This fee will be used for the expenses
of the city in connection with the approval or disapproval of said plan and any
final plat which may thereafter be submitted;
      (3)   If the subdivide requests that any existing special assessments
which have been levied against the premises described in the subdivision be
divided and allocated to the respective lots in the subdivision plat, the Clerk
shall estimate the clerical cost of preparing the revised assessment roll,
filing the same with the County Auditor, and making such division and
allocation, and upon approval by the Council of such estimated cost the same
shall be paid to the City Treasurer in addition to the fee mentioned in (2)
above to cover the cost of preparing and filing the revised assessment.
   (B)   The preliminary plan shall be considered to have been officially filed
on the date received by the City Manager in proper form.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a preliminary plan in proper form, the City Manager
shall refer two copies to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission
shall set a public hearing on the preliminary plan to be held within 30 days of
the filing date. Notice of the hearing shall be published in the official
newspaper of the city at least five days prior to the hearing.
      (1)   One copy of the preliminary plan shall be provided to the City
Engineer for his or her examination and report. The City Engineer shall give
his or her report to the Planning Commission prior to the public hearing.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall make its report to the City Council
at the next Council meeting following the public hearing.
   (D)   The Council shall act on the preliminary plan within 30 days of
receipt of the report of the Planning Commission or within 60 days of the date
of official filing, whichever is earlier.
   (E)   The Council may by resolution accelerate the time limits contained in
this section or waive any of the requirements set forth in (C) and (D) except
that in no event shall the requirement of a public hearing be waived.
   (F)   If the preliminary plan is not approved by the Council, the reasons
for such action shall be recorded in the minutes of the Council and transmitted
to the applicant. If the preliminary plan is approved, such approval shall not
constitute final acceptance of the subdivision.
('75 Code, § 19.605(1)) (Am. Ord. 1085.93, passed 11-4-93)
§ 153.23 PRELIMINARY PLAN APPROVAL QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The City Planning Commission when authorized to conduct the public
hearing may return a conditional report to the City Council. The City Council
may require such changes or revisions as it deems necessary for the health,
safety, general welfare, and convenience of the city.
   (B)   The approval of a preliminary plan by the City Council is an
acceptance of the general layout as submitted, and indicates to the subdivide
that he or she may proceed toward fulfilling the necessary steps for approval
of the final plat in accordance with the Council's approval.
   (C)   Subsequent approval will be required of the necessary engineering
proposals pertaining to water supply, storm drainage, sewerage and sewage
disposal, sidewalks, gas and electric service, grading, gradients and roadway
widths, and the surfacing of streets by other public officials having
jurisdiction prior to the approval of the final plat by the city.
   (D)   No plan will be approved for a subdivision which covers an area
subject to periodic flooding or which contains extremely poor drainage
facilities and which would make adequate drainage of the streets and lots
impossible, unless the subdivide agrees to make improvements which will, in the
opinion of the City Engineer, make the area completely safe for occupancy and
provide adequate street and lot drainage.
('75 Code, § 19.607)
§ 153.24 FINAL PLAT CONTENTS.
   (A)   Generally. The final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor who is
registered with the state and shall conform to subsection (B) hereof and §§
153.35,
153.36, and
153.37(A), (B), and (H).
   (B)   Information to be shown. The following information shall be shown:
      (1)   Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles, and
curvatures used to describe boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, and areas
to be reserved for public use. Dimensions of lot lines shall be shown in feet
and hundredths;
      (2)   An identification system for all lots and blocks;
      (3)   Municipal, township, county, or section lines accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivisions by distances and angles;
      (4)   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings,
and lengths of all arcs;
      (5)   Accurate location of all monuments;
      (6)   Certifications by attached information showing that all taxes and
special assessments currently due on the property to be subdivided have been
paid in full;
      (7)   Form of approval by City Council as follows:
Approved by the City Council of the City of Benson, Minnesota, this________ day
of ________, 19___.
                           ___________________
                             City Clerk
      (8)   Form for approval by county authorities as required.
('75 Code, § 19.608)
§ 153.25 FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   The owner or subdivide shall file five copies of the final plat not
later than six months after the date of approval of the preliminary plan;
otherwise the preliminary plan and final plat will be considered void unless an
extension is requested in writing by the subdivide and for good cause granted
by the Council. The owner or subdivide shall also submit at this time an up-to-
date certified abstract of title or registered property report or such other
evidence as the City Attorney may require showing title and control in the
applicant. The final plat will have incorporated all changes or modifications
required by the Council; in all other respects it shall conform to the
preliminary plan. It may constitute only that portion of the approved
preliminary plan which the subdivide proposes to record and develop at the
time, provided that such portion conforms with all the requirements of these
regulations, but such portion shall not be less than 320 lineal feet.
   (B)   The final plat shall be considered to have been officially filed on
the date received by the City Manager in proper form.
   (C)   On the same date that it places the final plat on file the Council
shall refer two copies of the final plat to the Planning Commission, one copy
to the City Engineer, and a copy each to the telephone and power and other
utility companies. The abstract of title or registered property report shall be
referred to the City Attorney for his examination and report. The City
Attorney's report shall be given to the Council within 15 days. The procedure
and timing of reports of the Planning Commission and the City Engineer and
action by the Council are the same as for the preliminary plan except that no
public hearing is required in processing the final plat.
   (D)   If the final plat is approved by the Council, the subdivide shall
record it with the County Register of Deeds or Register of Titles within 90
days after the date of approval; otherwise, the approval of the final plat
shall be considered void.
   (E)   The subdivide shall immediately upon recording furnish the Clerk with
a tracing and three prints of the final plat showing evidence of the recording,
one for the Building Inspector, one for the Assessor, one for the Clerk, and
the transparency for the City Engineer.
   (F)   Upon receiving approval of a final plat for a portion of the approved
preliminary plan, the subdivide shall not be required to request a continuation
of the city's recognition of the preliminary plan so as to maintain its
approval.
('75 Code, § 19.605(2)) (Am. Ord. 1085.93, passed 11-4-93)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.35 CITY PLAN CONFORMITY.
   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the City Plan.
('75 Code, § 19.609(1))
§ 153.36 STREET PLAN.
   (A)   Generally. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and
location of all streets shall conform to the City Plan and to these
regulations, and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned
streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographical conditions, to
run-off of storm water, public convenience, and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the land to be served by such streets.
   (B)   Continuation of existing streets. The arrangement of streets in new
subdivisions shall make provision for the appropriate continuation of the
existing streets in adjoining areas.
   (C)   Future projection of streets. Where adjoining areas are not
subdivided, but may be subdivided, the arrangement of streets in a new
subdivision shall make provision for the proper projection of streets into
adjoining areas by carrying the new streets to the boundaries of the new
subdivisions at appropriate locations.
('75 Code, § 19.609(2))
§ 153.37 STREETS.
   (A)   Widths. All right-of-way widths and pavement widths (face to face to
curb) shall conform to the following minimum standards:
 
Classification                        Right-of-Way Width Pavement Width
Cull-de-sacs                          50 foot radius     40 feet
Marginal access streets               40 feet            32 feet
All other streets                     70 feet            44 feet
Major thoroughfares and major streets As shown on the Major Street Plan
 
   (B)   Deflections. When connecting street lines deflect from each other at
any one point by more than 10°, they shall be connected by a curve with a
radius of not less than 100 feet.
   (C)   Grades. All center-line gradients shall be at least 0.5% and shall not
exceed the following:
 
Classification                                            Gradient (in %)
Major thoroughfares, major streets, and collector streets 4
Service streets                                           6
 
   (D)   Vertical curves. Different connecting street gradients shall be
connected with vertical curves. Minimum length, in feet, of these curves shall
be 20 times the algebraic difference in the per cent of grade of the two
adjacent slopes.
   (E)   Street jogs. Street jogs shall have a center-line offset of 150 feet
or more when applied to minor streets or service streets; in all other cases
they shall be avoided.
   (F)   Cull-de-sacs. The maximum length of cull-de-sac streets shall be 500
feet measured along the center line from the intersection of origin to the end
of the right-of-way.
   (G)   Service streets. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or
planned major thoroughfare or a railroad right-of-way, the Council may require
a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way for
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
through and local traffic. The service streets shall be located at a distance
from the major thoroughfare or railroad right-of-way suitable for the
appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes in residential
districts, or for commercial or industrial purposes in appropriate districts.
Such distances shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of
approach grades and future grade separations.
   (H)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations; and except where the Council finds it will
be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. Whenever there is a half street adjacent to a tract to
be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract
prior to the granting of access.
   (I)   Reserved strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited except under conditions approved by the Council.
   (J)   Private Streets. Private streets shall not be approved nor shall
public improvements be approved for any private street.
   (K)   Hardship to owners of adjoining property avoided. The street
arrangements shall not be such as to cause hardship to owners of adjoining
property in platting their own land and providing convenient access to it.
('75 Code, § 19.609(3))
§ 153.38 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Vocational requirements. Either a public or private alley shall be
provided in a block where commercially zoned property abuts a major
thoroughfare or a major street. Alleys in residential areas other than those
zoned for multiple family use shall not be permitted.
   (B)   Width. All alley rights-of-way and pavement widths shall conform to
the following minimum standards:
 
Classification           Right-of-Way Width Pavement Width
Industrial or commercial 24 feet            20 feet
Residential (two-way)    20 feet            16 feet
Residential (one-way)    16 feet            12 feet
   (C)   Grades. All center-line gradients shall be at least 0.5% and shall not
exceed 6%.
('75 Code, § 19.609(4))
§ 153.39 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Angle of intersection. The angle formed by the intersecting of streets
shall not be less than 60° with 90° intersections preferred.
   (B)   Size of intersection. Intersections of more than four corners shall be
prohibited.
   (C)   Corner radii. Roadways of street intersections shall be rounded by a
radius of not less than 15 feet. Roadways of alley-street intersections shall
be rounded by a radius of not less than 6 feet. Corners at the entrance to the
turn-around portions of cul-de-sacs shall be rounded by a radius of not less
than 15 feet.
('75 Code, § 19.609(5))
§ 153.40 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   Curbs and gutters shall be included as a part of the required street surface
improvement and shall thus be designed for installation along both sides of all
roadways in accordance with the standards of the city.
('75 Code, § 19.609(6))
§ 153.41 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Widths. All sidewalk widths shall conform to the following minimum
standards:
 
Classification                                Width
Single family zone                            5 feet
Multiple family zone and public building site 6 feet
Commercial zone                               10 feet
Industrial zone                               6 feet
 
   (B)   Grades. Sidewalks shall slope ¼-inch per foot away from the property
line and the profile grade shall not exceed 6%.
('75 Code, § 19.609(7))
§ 153.42 PEDESTRIAN WAYS.
   In blocks over 900 feet long, pedestrian crosswalks through the blocks at
least 10 feet wide may be required by the City Council in locations deemed
necessary to public health, convenience, and necessity.
('75 Code, § 19.609(8))
§ 153.43 WATER SUPPLY.
   Extension of the public water supply system shall be designed so as to
provide public water service to each lot. The design of said extensions shall
be in accordance with the standards of the city.
('75 Code, § 19.609(9))
§ 153.44 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   Extensions of the public sanitary sewer system shall be designed so as to
provide public sewer service to each lot. The design of the extensions shall be
in accordance with the standards of the city.
('75 Code, § 19.609(10))
Cross-reference:
   
Building sewers and connections, see § 52.30 et seq.
§ 153.45 DRAINAGE.
   A complete and adequate drainage system design may be required for the
subdivision and shall include a storm sewer system, a system of open ditches,
culverts, pipes, and catch basins, or both systems. Such system or systems
shall be designed in conformity with all applicable standards of the city and
so as to meet with its approval.
('75 Code, § 19.609(11))
Cross-reference:
   
Sewers; storm water, unpolluted water, and the like, see § 52.50
§ 153.46 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Provided for utilities. Easements at least 12 feet wide and centered
on rear and other lot lines shall be provided for utilities where necessary and
shall be dedicated to the city by appropriate language in the owner's
certificate. They shall have continuity of alignment from block to block, and
at deflection points easements for poleline anchors shall be provided where
necessary. Easements shall be provided along property lines from utility
easements on rear lot lines to rights-of-way so as to provide for a street
light interval not to exceed 500 feet.
   (B)   Provided for drainage. Easements shall be provided along each side of
the center line of any water course or drainage channel, whether or not shown
in the comprehensive City Plan, to a width of 50 feet to provide proper
maintenance and protection and to provide for storm water run-off and
installation and maintenance of storm sewers, and they shall be dedicated to
the city by appropriate language in the owner's certificate.
('75 Code, § 19.609(12))
§ 153.47 STREET TREES.
   Street trees when planted shall not be more than 40 feet apart with a
minimum of two per lot. They should preferably be placed three to six feet
inside the property line rather than in the boulevard. The minimum size and
type to be planted shall conform to the provisions of the applicable ordinances
of the city.
('75 Code, § 19.609(13))
§ 153.48 STREET NAMES.
   Names of new streets shall not duplicate existing or platted street names
unless a new street is a continuation of or alignment with the existing or
platted street, in which event it shall bear the same name of the existing or
platted street so in alignment.
('75 Code, § 19.609(14))
§ 153.49 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Factors governing dimensions. Block length and width or acreage within
bounding streets shall be such as to accommodate the size of residential lots
required in the area by the zoning chapter and to provide for convenient
access, circulation control, and safety of street traffic.
   (B)   Length. Block lengths shall not exceed 1800 feet.
   (C)   Arrangement. A block shall be so designed as to provide two tiers of
lots, unless it adjoins a railroad, major thoroughfare, river, or park where it
may have a single tier of lots.
('75 Code, § 19.609(15))
§ 153.50 LOTS.
   (A)   Location. All lots shall abut by their full frontage on a publicly
dedicated street that has received legal status as such.
   (B)   Size. The lot dimensions in subdivisions designed shall not be less
than the minimum dimensions required to secure the minimum lot area specified
in the zoning code of the city.
   (C)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall be platted at least 15 feet wider than
interior lots.
   (D)   Butt lots. Butt lots shall be platted at least five feet wider than
the average width of interior lots in the block.
   (E)   Side lot lines. Side lines of lots shall be substantially at right
angles to the street line.
   (F)   Watercourses. Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainage way, channel,
or stream shall have such additional depth or width as required to assure house
sites that are not subject to flooding.
   (G)   Natural features. In the subdividing of any land, regard shall be
shown for all natural features such as tree growth, watercourses, historic
spots, or similar conditions which if preserved will add attractiveness and
stability to the proposed development.
   (H)   Lot remnants. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots or a plan shown as
to future use rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
('75 Code, § 19.609(16))
§ 153.51 WAIVER OF MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The City Council may, on its own motion, waive any of the minimum standards
set forth in this subchapter if it finds that doing so is warranted by
circumstances and is consistent with the purpose of these regulations.
('75 Code, § 19.609(17)) (Ord. 1085.93, passed 11-4-93)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.65 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Improvements listed and described; required agreements. Prior to the
approval of a final plat by the Council, the subdivide shall enter into an
agreement with the city which sets forth the requirements for furnishing the
following improvements on-site and the allocation of costs therefor:
      (1)   Monuments. Monuments of a permanent character shall be placed in
locations on the boundary of the subdivision and within it as required.
      (2)   Street and alley improvements.
         (a)   Grading. The full width of the right-of-way of each street and
alley dedicated in the plat shall be graded.
         (b)   Pavement. All streets and alleys shall have an adequate sub-base
and base of at least 8 inches of gravel.
      (3)   Curbs and gutters. Permanent curbs and gutters shall be installed.
      (4)   Water supply. Water mains shall be provided to serve the
subdivision by extension of the existing city system. Service connections
stubbed into the property and all necessary fire hydrants shall also be
provided.
      (5)   Sewage disposal. Sanitary sewer mains and service connections
stubbed into the property line shall be provided to serve all the lots in the
subdivision and shall be connected to the existing city sewer system, except
that where connection to the city sewer system is not available in a street
adjacent to or within the subdivision, the sewer system within the subdivision
shall be installed and capped for future use. A variance to this requirement
shall be granted if the grades for such sewers to the existing sewer system
cannot be provided.
      (6)   Drainage. A system that will adequately take care of the water run-
off within the subdivision shall be provided if the City Council, upon the
recommendation of the Planning Commission, determines that it is feasible for
the subdivide to install storm sewers connected to the existing storm sewer
system of the city within or adjacent to the subdivision.
      (7)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks will be required on all lots facing city
streets and shall be in place before occupancy of any home is permitted.
Sidewalks shall be a minimum 5 feet wide and shall conform to standards herein
set forth.
   (B)   Additional terms of agreements. The agreements required by (A) hereof
shall include such terms as the City Council may require to ensure that all
construction is done in a workmanlike and timely manner and in accordance with
all requirements placed thereon by the city.
('75 Code, § 19.611(1), (4))
§ 153.66 COST ALLOCATION AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Payments for installation of improvements. The cost of required
improvements to be furnished and installed shall be shared by the subdivide and
the city as determined by the City Council. By mutual agreement between the
city and the subdivide, the Council may assess the cost of curbs, gutters, in-
drives, sidewalks, and bituminous mat against the lands benefitted in
accordance with current assessment practices for a term not to exceed ten
years.
   (B)   Others costs. All labor and material costs not specified in the
agreement set forth in (A) hereof shall be borne by the subdivide, including
all engineering and inspection for the above improvements. If any improvements
installed within a subdivision will be of substantial benefit, as determined by
the City Council, to land beyond the boundaries of the subdivision, the Council
may make provisions for causing a portion of the improvement representing the
benefit to such lands to be assessed against that land, and in such case the
subdivide will be required only to pay for such portion of the whole cost of
the improvement as will represent the benefit to the property within the
subdivision.
('75 Code, § 19.611(2)-(3))
§ 153.67 BOND OR DEPOSIT FOR INCOMPLETE WORK.
   The city may require the subdivide to furnish a performance bond in an
amount determined by the City Council or in lieu thereof to make an escrow
deposit in an amount equal to the total cost of the project not completed prior
to approval of the final plat from which the city shall be entitled to
reimburse itself for any cost or expense it incurs for completion of the work
in case of default by the subdivide under said contract and for any damages
sustained by the city as a result of such breach. Upon completion of the work
and termination of any liability to the city of the subdivide under the
contract, the balance remaining in said deposit shall be refunded to the
subdivide.
('75 Code, § 19.611(5))
§ 153.68 CONSTRUCTION PLANS; APPROVAL.
   Construction plans for the required improvements conforming in all respects
with the standards of the City Engineer and the ordinances of the city shall be
prepared at the subdivide's expense by a professional engineer who is
registered in the state, and said plans shall contain his or her seal. Such
plans together with the quantities of construction items shall be submitted to
the City Engineer for his or her approval and for his or her estimate of the
total cost of the required improvements; upon approval they shall become a part
of the contract required by §
153.66 of this subchapter. The tracings of the plans approved by the City
Engineer plus two prints shall be furnished to the city to be filed by the City
Engineering Department.
('75 Code, § 19.611(6))
§ 153.69 INSPECTIONS; CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   All improvements on the site that are to be installed under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be inspected during the course of construction by the
City Engineer at the subdivide's expense, and acceptance shall be subject to
the City Engineer's certificate of compliance with the contract.
('75 Code, § 19.611(7))
§ 153.70 IMPROVEMENTS COMPLETED PRIOR TO APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   Improvements within a subdivision which have been completed prior to
application for approval of the final plat or execution of the contract for
installation of the required improvements shall be accepted as equivalent
improvements in compliance with the requirements of this code only if the City
Engineer shall certify that he or she is satisfied that the existing
improvements conform to applicable city standards.
('75 Code, § 19.611(8))
Editor's note:
   Equivalent improvements are city design standards which are currently used
by the City Engineer and are approved by resolution of the City Council
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Definitions
   
154.003   Rules for application of provisions
   
154.004   Adoption by reference of Airport Zoning Ordinance
Regulations
   
154.015   Bed and breakfasts
   
154.016   Day care facilities
   
154.017   Fences/screening
   
154.018   Home occupations
   
154.019   Off-street parking and loading
   
154.020   Signs
   
154.021   Essential services
   
154.022   Land reclamation
   
154.023   Mining
   
154.024   Wind Energy Conversion System (WECS)
   
154.025   Accessory buildings, structures and uses
   
154.026   General building and performance standards
   
154.027   Non-conforming uses and structures
   
154.028   Operation standards
   
154.029   Public property/rights-of-way
   
154.030   Relocation of buildings
   
154.031   Site plan review
   
154.032   Swimming pools
   
154.033   Opt-out of M.S. § 462.3593
Planned Unit Development District
   
154.040   Purpose
   
154.041   Allowed uses
   
154.042   Required standards
   
154.043   Coordination with subdivision regulations
   
154.044   Revisions and/or changes
   
154.045   Phasing and guarantee of performance
   
154.046   Control of PUD following completion
   
154.047   Procedure for processing a PUD
Zoning Districts; Zoning Map
   
154.055   Zoning districts
   
154.056   Uses
   
154.057   Zoning map
   
154.058   District boundary lines; appeals
   
154.059   Height limitations, area, frontage, and yard requirements
   
154.060   Manufactured home parks (mobile home parks)
   
154.061   Temporary zoning of annexed land
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.175   Zoning Administrator; duties
   
154.176   Administrative permits
   
154.177   Variances
   
154.178   Conditional use permit
   
154.179   Fees
   
154.180   Amendments to code
   
154.181   Appeals from decisions of Zoning Administrator
Flood Plain Management
   
154.195   Statutory authorization, findings of fact and purpose
   
154.196   General provisions
   
154.197   Establishment of zoning districts
   
154.198   Floodway District (FW)
   
154.199   Flood Fringe District (FF)
   
154.200   General Flood Plain District
   
154.201   Subdivisions
   
154.202   Public utilities, railroads, roads, and bridges
   
154.203   Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks and placement of
recreational vehicles
   
154.204   Administration
   
154.205   Noncomforming uses
   
154.206   Amendments
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 PURPOSE.
   This Zoning Plan is adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Protecting the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience,
and general welfare;
   (B)   Protecting and preserving the city’s natural resources, ecological
systems, and economic stability by fostering appropriate land use;
   (C)   Dividing the city into zones and districts restricting and regulating
therein the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of
structures and land for agricultural, residential, business, commercial,
industrial, and other specific uses;
   (D)   Promoting orderly development, redevelopment, growth, and renewal of
the residential, business, industrial, recreational, and public areas;
   (E)   Providing adequate light, air, privacy, and convenience of access to
property;
   (F)   Limiting congestion in the public rights-of-way and public streets and
fostering public safety and convenience in travel and transportation;
   (G)   Preventing overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures
by regulating the use of land and buildings and the bulk of buildings in
relation to the land and buildings surrounding them;
   (H)   Providing protection from fire, explosions, obnoxious fumes, and other
hazards in the interest of public health, safety, and comfort;
   (I)   Providing for the compatibility of different land uses and the most
appropriate use of land throughout the city;
   (J)   Providing for the administration of this Plan and amendments thereto;
   (K)   Defining the powers and duties of the administrative officers and
bodies, as provided hereinafter;
   (L)   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this code
or any amendment thereto.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of construction. The language set forth in the text of this code
shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction:
      (1)   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular.
      (2)   The word PERSON includes an owner or representative of the owner,
firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation as
well as an individual.
      (3)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the
future the present.
      (4)   The words SHALL and MUST are mandatory, and the word MAY is
permissive.
      (5)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this chapter, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in such definition
thereof.
      (6)   For terminology not defined in this chapter or elsewhere in the
city code, the Minnesota State Building Code or the Webster’s Dictionary shall
be used to define such terms.
      (7)   All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest 1/
10 of a foot.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Making direct contact with or immediately bordering.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE, OR USE. A subordinate building, structure, or
use, which is located on the same lot on which the principal building or use is
situated and which is reasonably necessary, appropriate and incidental to the
conduct of the primary use of such building or main use.
   ACCESSORY USE OF STRUCTURE. A use of a structure or portion of a structure
subordinate to and serving the principal use of a structure on the same lot and
customarily incidental thereto.
   ADJACENT. In close proximity to or neighboring, not necessarily abutting.
   ADULT BUSINESSES. See
Chapter 117.
   AGRICULTURE. The art or science of cultivating the soil and incident
activities; the growing of soil crops in the customary manner on open tracts of
land; the accessory raising of livestock and poultry; farming. The term shall
include the incidental retail selling by the producer of products raised on the
premises, provided that space necessary for parking of motor vehicles of
customers shall be furnished off the public right-of-way.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance not known or hereafter invented, used or designed
for navigation of or manned flight in the air, including without limitation,
airplanes, helicopters, and ultra lights.
   AIRPORT (LANDING STRIP, HELIPORT, OR AIRCRAFT STOP). Any premises, land, or
structure that is/are used or intended for use for the landing and takeoff of
aircraft, and any appurtenant land or structure used or intended for use for
port buildings or other port structures or rights-of-way; and any appurtenant
areas that are used or intended for use of building incidental to aircraft
services, together with all building structures thereon.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way that affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property, and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ANIMAL FEEDLOT. A lot or building or combination of lots and buildings
intended for the confined feeding, breeding, raising, or holding of animals and
specifically designed as a confinement area in which manure may accumulate, or
where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative cover cannot be
maintained within the enclosure. Open lots used for feeding and rearing of
poultry (poultry ranges) and barns, dairy farms, swine facilities, beef lots
and barns, horse stalls, mink ranches and zoos, shall be considered to be
animal feedlots. Pastures shall not be considered an animal feedlot.
   ANIMAL IMPOUND. A not for profit organization whose primary purpose is to
provide animals impounding services and adoption of impounding animals for the
city and adjacent communities.
   ANTENNA. A device consisting of metal, carbon fiber, or other
electromagnetically conducive rods or elements, on a single supporting pole or
other structure, and used for the transmission and reception of radio,
television, or electromagnet waves, and including the supporting structure
thereof.
   APARTMENT. A multi-use building arranged and intended as a place of
residence of a single family or group of individuals living together as a
single housekeeping unit. See also DWELLING.
   APPLICANT. The owner, their agent or person having legal control, ownership
and/or interest in land that the provisions of this chapter are being
considered for or reviewed.
   AUTOMOBILE AND TRUCK SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline, kerosene, or
any other motor fuel or lubricating oil or grease for operating motor vehicles
is offered for sale to the public and deliveries are made directly into the
motor vehicle.
   AUTOMOBILE REDUCTION YARD. A lot or yard where two or more unlicensed motor
vehicles or the remains thereof are kept for the purpose of dismantling, sale
of parts, sale as scrap, storage, or abandonment. See also JUNK YARD.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR (MAJOR). General repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles, or trailers, including body work, frame work, and
major painting service.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR (MINOR). Includes the replacement of any part or repair of
any part that does not require the removal of the engine head or pan, engine,
transmission, or differential; incidental body and fender work, and minor
painting and upholstering service, when said service above-stated is applied to
passenger automobiles and trucks not in excess of 7,000 pounds gross.
   AUTOMOBILE, WASH (CAR WASH). A building or area that provides facilities for
washing and cleaning motor vehicles, which may use production line methods with
conveyor, blower, or other mechanical devices, and which may employ some hand
labor.
   AWNING. A roof-like cover that is temporary in nature and that projects from
the wall of a building for the purpose of shielding a doorway or window from
the elements.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground having a floor
to ceiling height of seven feet or more.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A single family dwelling in which four or
fewer transient guest rooms are rented on a nightly basis for periods of less
than one week and where at least one meal is offered in connection with the
provision of sleeping accommodations only.
   BOARDER. One that is provided with regular meals or regular meals and
lodging.
   BOARDINGHOUSE. A building other than a motel or hotel where, for
compensation and by pre-arrangement for definite periods, meals or lodgings are
provided for three or more persons not members of the principal family.
   BUFFER. The use of land, topography, difference in elevation, space, fences,
or landscape planting to screen or partially screen a use or property from the
vision of another use or property, and thus reduce undesirable influences such
as sight, noise, dust, and other external effects.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on a lot after the minimum setback and
open space requirements of this chapter have been met.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof that may provide shelter or enclosure
of persons, animals, or chattel, and when said structures are divided by party
walls without openings, each portion of such buildings so separated shall be
deemed a separate building.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. A distance to be measured from the mean curb level along
the front lot line or from the mean ground level for all of that portion of the
structure located on a public right-of-way, whichever is higher, to the top of
the cornice of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, to a point on
the roof directly above the highest wall of a shed roof, to the uppermost point
on a round or other arch-type roof, or to the mean distance of the highest
gable on a pitched or hip roof.
   BUILDING SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the building and
the specified lot line as prescribed in this chapter.
   CAMPGROUND. An area upon which are located two or more sites for major
recreational equipment for seasonal or temporary recreational occupancy.
   CANOPY. Any accessory roof-like structure, movable or stationary, that is
either attached to or detached from an allowable primary building; that is open
on all sides, other than where attached; and, that is located over and designed
to provide cover for entrances, exits, walkways, and approved off-street motor
vehicle service areas.
   CARPORT. An automobile shelter having one or more sides open.
   CELLAR. That portion of the building partly below ground level other than a
basement with a space with less than ½ its floor to ceiling height above the
average finished grade of the adjoining ground or with a floor-to-ceiling
height of less than 6 ½ feet.
   CEMETERY. A parcel or tract of land used or intended to be used for the
burial of the dead including columbaria, crematories, mausoleums, and
mortuaries when operated within the boundaries of such cemetery.
   CITY ATTORNEY. The person designated by the City Council to be the City
Attorney for the city.
   CITY BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person designated by the City Manager to be the
City Building Official for the city.
   CITY COUNCIL. The governing body for the city.
   CLUB or LODGE. An association of persons who are bona fide members paying
annual dues, use of premises being restricted to members and their guests. The
serving of food and meals on such premises is permissible providing adequate
dining room space and kitchen facilities are available. Serving alcoholic
beverages to members of guests shall be allowed, provided such serving is
secondary and incidental to the operation of the dining room for purpose of
serving food and meals and providing that such serving of alcoholic beverages
is in compliance with the applicable federal, state, county, and city laws.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. A business directed toward the general public, not
requiring membership, that offers recreational entertainment such as bowling
alleys, billiard halls, miniature golf, ballrooms, roller rinks, sports and
health clubs and the like.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. Any privately owned open space including private parks,
nature areas, playgrounds, and trails, including accessory recreational
buildings and structures which are an integral part of a development.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The policies, statements, goals and interrelated plans
for public and private land and water use, transportation, and community
facilities, including recommendations for planned execution, documented in
texts, ordinances and maps that constitute the guide for future development of
the community or any portion of the community.
   CONDITIONAL USE. See USE.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the City Council in accordance
with procedures specified in this chapter, as a flexible device to enable the
City Council to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions surrounding
it after consideration of adjacent uses and their functions and the special
problems which the proposed use presents.
   CREMATORY. A furnace or establishment used for cremating.
   CURB LEVEL. The elevation of the established curb in front of a building
measured at the center of such front.
   DAY CARE FACILITY, STATE LICENSED. Any facility licensed by the State
Department of Human Services or Department of Health, public or private, which
for gain or otherwise regularly provides one or more persons with care,
training, supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation, or developmental guidance
on a regular basis, for periods of less than 24 hours per day, in a place other
than the person’s own home. DAY CARE FACILITIES include but are not limited to:
family day care homes, group family day care homes, day care centers, day
nurseries, day time activity centers, day treatment programs and day services,
nursery and preschools, as defined by M.S. Chapter 245A, as may be amended.
   DECK. A horizontal, enclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises, or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site.
   DOMESTIC PETS. Dogs, cats, birds, and similar animals commonly kept in a
residence. Animals considered wild, exotic, or non-domestic such as bears,
lions, wolves, ocelots, and similar animals shall not be considered domestic
pets.
   DRIVE THROUGH BUSINESS. A business that by design, physical facilities,
service or by packaging procedures encourages or permits customers to receive
services, obtain goods, or be entertained while remaining in their motor
vehicles, excluding gasoline service stations as defined by this subchapter.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on an
individual lot or parcel.
   DUPLEX. A dwelling unit having two or more units being attached by common
walls and each unit equipped with separate sleeping, cooking, eating, living,
and sanitation facilities.
   DWELLING. A building or a portion of a building designed or exclusively used
for residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family, and multiple
family dwelling units, but not including hotels, motels, boardinghouses, and
lodging houses.
      ATTACHED DWELLING. A dwelling that is joined to another dwelling.
      DETACHED DWELLING. A dwelling that is entirely surrounded by open space
on the same lot.
      MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building or portion of a building designed
for or intended for or containing three or more dwelling units.
      SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A one-family dwelling designed for and used for
occupancy by one family and in which not more than two persons other than
members of the family are lodged at any one time.
      TWO-FAMILY DWELLING.  A building designed or intended exclusively for
occupancy by two families living independently of each other, duplex.
      UNIT DWELLING. Two or more rooms in a dwelling or apartment designed for
occupancy by one family for living purposes and having its own permanently
installed cooking and sanitary facilities.
   EARTH SHELTERED BUILDING. A building so constructed that 50% or more of the
completed structure is covered with earth. Earth covering is measured from the
lowest level of the livable space in residential units and of usable space in
non-residential buildings. An earth sheltered building is a complete structure
that does not serve just as a foundation or sub-structure for above grade
construction. A partially covered building shall not be considered earth
sheltered.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more property rights by a property owner for use
by the public, a corporation, or another person or entity.
   ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION FACILITY. Any electric energy generating facility
with generating capacity of ten megawatts or more, and any appurtenant
buildings, structures, uses, or facilities thereto. For purposes of
Chapter 154, the ELECTRIC POWER GENERATING FACILITY in its entirety shall be
considered the primary building, and/or use. This definition for ELECTRIC POWER
GENERATION FACILITY will only apply if said ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION FACILITY
enters into a site plan review agreement pursuant to §
154.031 with the city; if said ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION FACILITY does not
enter into a site plan review agreement with the city, the ELECTRIC POWER
GENERATION FACILITY will be defined as MANUFACTURING, HEAVY as set forth below
and all requirements for said MANUFACTURING, HEAVY set forth herein shall
apply.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water
transmission or distribution systems; collection, communications, supply, or
disposal systems including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants, or other similar equipment and accessories in conjunction therewith;
but not including buildings.
   EXISTING. Lots, buildings, structures, premises, or uses for which the START
OF CONSTRUCTION has been reached and shall include all construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, alteration, or improvement according to the
building permit.
   EXTERIOR SALES. The sale of goods, materials, equipment, manufactured
products and similar items not fully enclosed by a building.
   EXTERIOR STORAGE. The storage of goods, materials, equipment, manufactured
products and similar items not fully enclosed by a building.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons each related by blood,
marriage, or adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a
group of not more than four persons not so related maintaining a common
household and using common cooking and kitchen facilities.
   FARM. An unplatted tract of land approximately ten acres or more, or two or
more abutting parcels under the same ownership having an area of ten acres,
measured from the centerline of abutting roads, usually with a house and barn
and other buildings, and on which crops and often livestock are raised as a
major source of livelihood.
   FARMING. The process of operating a farm for the growing and harvesting of
crops which shall include those necessary buildings, relating to operating the
farm, and the keeping of common domestic farm animals.
   FENCE. See §
154.017 for applicable definitions.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building including interior balconies, mezzanines, basements, and attached
accessory buildings, but excepting that area primarily devoted to window
display, storage, fitting rooms, stairs, escalators, enclosed porches, detached
accessory buildings utilized for dead storage, heating and utility rooms, and
inside off-street parking or loading spaces. Measurements shall be made from
the outside of exterior walls.
   FOREST. A dense growth of trees and underbrush covering a large tract of
land.
   FRONTAGE. That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated public
street, watercourse or similar barrier.
   FUNERAL HOME. An establishment for the preparation of the dead for burial or
cremation, for viewing of the body, and for funerals.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of the principal
building, including a carport, which is used primarily for storing passenger
motor vehicles, trailers, or one truck of a gross capacity not in excess of
7,000 pounds.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Premises used for the storage or care of motor vehicles or
premises where such motor vehicles are equipped, repaired or kept for
remuneration, for hire or for sale. Sale of gasoline or oil and accessories are
only incidental to the principal use.
   GARAGE, REPAIR (COMMERCIAL). A building space for the commercial repair or
maintenance of motor vehicles, but not including factory assembly of such motor
vehicles, automobile wrecking establishments, or junk yards.
   GARAGE, STORAGE (COMMERCIAL). Any premises, except those described as a
private or public garage, used for storage.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable wastes and other wastes or putrescible matter
including but not limited to grease, wrappings, shells, grounds, bones,
entrails, and similar materials resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking, service, and consumption of food and other animal wastes.
   GLARE. The effect produced by the intensity and direction of any artificial
illumination sufficient to cause an impairment or temporary loss of vision.
   GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving, or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line, or when the property line is more than five
feet from the building, between the building and a line five feet from the
building.
   GRADING. Changing the natural or existing topography of land.
   GREENHOUSE. An enclosed building, permanent or portable, which is used for
the growing of small plants.
   GUIDE PLAN. A set of maps, documents, data, policy statements, goals, and
standards on file with the Planning Commission. The GUIDE PLAN shall also mean
“Comprehensive City Plan” or “City Plan.”
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession conducted entirely within the
dwelling pursuant to a conditional use permit, provided that the use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes.
   HOTEL. A building containing eight or more guest rooms in which lodging is
provided with or without meals for compensation and which is open to transient
guests, permanent guests, or both, and where no provision is made for cooking
in any guest room, and in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms is
made through an inside lobby or office.
   JUNK YARD. An area where used, wasted, discarded, or salvaged materials are
bought, sold or exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed, disassembled, or
handled including but not limited to scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags,
rubber products, bottles, and lumber. Storage of such material in conjunction
with a permitted manufacturing process when within an enclosed area or building
shall not be included. See also AUTOMOBILE REDUCTION YARD.
   KENNEL. Any person, partnership, or corporation engaged in the business of
breeding, buying, selling, or boarding dogs; provided that such person,
partnership, or corporation customarily owns or boards more than three dogs
over six months of age.
   KILOVOLT. A unit of electromotive force equal to 1,000 volts.
   LAND RECLAMATION. The process of the re-establishment of acceptable
topography (such as slopes), vegetative cover, soil stability and the
establishment of safe conditions appropriate to the subsequent use of the land.
   LANDSCAPING. Plantings such as trees, flowers, grass and shrubs and
improvements directly related thereto.
   LOADING SPACE (OFF-STREET). A formally delineated space, area, or berth on
the same lot with a building, or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the
temporary parking of a motor vehicle or truck while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials.
   LODGING ROOM. A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities. In a suite of rooms, without cooking facilities, each room
which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as one lodging room.
   LODGINGHOUSE or ROOMINGHOUSE. A building containing at least one dwelling
unit, wherein three or more persons, not members of the principal family, are
provided lodging for compensation by prearrangement for definite periods.
   LOT. A parcel or portion of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum
zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such yards and
other open spaces as are herein required.
      LOT, AREA. The area of a lot in a horizontal plane bounded by the lot
lines.
      LOT, AREA PER FAMILY. The number of square feet of lot area required per
dwelling unit.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or
more intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of
a continuous street, the interior angle of which does not exceed 135 degrees.
      LOT, DEPTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the front lot line
and the rear lot line measured from a 90 degree angle from the street right-of-
way within the lot boundaries.
      LOT, FRONT LOT LINE. That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or
dedicated public street, and, in the case of a corner lot, it shall be the
shortest dimension on a public street. If the dimensions of a corner lot are
equal, the front lot line shall be designated by the owner and filed with the
city. The Planning Commission shall determine the front lot line in business
industrial districts based on the existing uses and yards in that area of the
district involved.
      LOT LINE. A lot line is located at the property bounding a lot, except
that where any portion of a lot extends into the proposed public right-of-way,
the line of such public right-of-way shall be the lot fine for applying this
code.
      LOT OF RECORD. Any lot that is one unit of a plat heretofore duly
approved and filed; or one unit of an auditor’s subdivision or a registered
land survey, or a parcel of land not so platted, subdivided, or registered, for
which a deed, auditor’s subdivision, or registered land survey has been
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds Or Registrar of Titles
effective date of this chapter.
      LOT, REAR LOT LINE. That boundary of a lot that is opposite the front lot
line. If the rear lot line is less than ten feet in length, or if the lot forms
a point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be a line ten feet in length
within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot
line.
      LOT, SIDE LOT LINE. Any boundary of a lot that is not a front lot line or
a rear lot line.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines abutting two
substantially parallel streets and which is not a corner lot. On a through lot,
either street line or both street lines may be the front lot line for the lot
provided that the overall pattern of setbacks in the area is in appeasement
with the determination of the front lot line by the owner subject to review and
approval of the Planning Commission.
      LOT WIDTH. The maximum horizontal distance between the side lot lines.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME). Any type of structure or vehicle requiring
a state license or title card for use on highways which can be readily adapted
to or does provide facilities for a person or persons to eat or sleep which is
mounted on wheels, has provisions for wheels, or may be loaded on an ordinary
flatbed truck such as a house trailer, converted bus or truck, tent or small
building, or camp trailer.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK (MOBILE HOME PARK). Any site, lot, field, or tract of
land upon which two or more occupied manufactured homes are located, either
free of charge or for compensation, and includes any building, structure,
vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the
manufactured home park.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. All manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment, or assembly of products and materials that may emit objectionable
and offensive noise, odor or pollution beyond the lot on which the use is
located. Such uses include but are not limited to the following: sawmill,
refineries, commercial feed lots, acid, cement, explosives, flour, feed, and
grain milling or storage, meat packing, slaughterhouses, coal or tar asphalt
distillation, rendering of fat, grease, lard or tallow, alcoholic beverages,
poisons, exterminating agents, glue or size, lime, gypsum, plaster of paris,
tanneries, automobile parts, paper and paper products, glass, chemicals, crude
oil and petroleum products including storage, electric power generation
facilities, vinegar works, junkyard, automobile reduction yard, foundry, forge,
casting of metal products, rock, stone, and cement products.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. The compounding, processing, packaging, treatment, or
assembly of products and materials provided such use will not generate
offensive odors, glare, smoke, dust, noise, vibrations, or other effects which
would be damaging to the environment. Such uses include but are not limited to
the following: lumberyards, machine shops, products assembly, sheet metal
shops, non-retail food and beverages, printing, publishing, fabricated metal
parts, appliances, clothing, textiles, medical or dental services, wholesale
greenhouse or nursery, truck terminals.
   MEDICAL USES. Uses concerned with the diagnosis, treatment, and care of
human beings. These include hospitals, dental services, medical services,
clinics, nursing or convalescent homes, orphans’ home, rest homes, or
sanitariums.
   MINING. All or part of the process involved in the extraction of minerals by
removing the overburden and extracting directly from the mineral deposits
thereby exposed.
   MOTEL. A building or group of detached, semi-detached or attached buildings
containing three or more guest rooms or units, each of which has a separate
entrance directly from the outside of the building, or corridor, with garage or
parking space conveniently located to each unit, and which is designed, used or
intended to be used primarily for the accommodation of transient guests
traveling by automobile.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building or area in which freight brought by motor
truck is assembled and/or stored for routing in intrastate or interstate
shipment by motor truck.
   MOTOR FUEL STATION. Any building or premises used for the dispensation, sale
or offering for sale at retail of any motor fuels, oils or lubricants.
   NATURE CENTER. An area of land used for preservation of open space, outdoor
recreation, and nature education.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE, USE, or LOT, ILLEGAL. A lot, building, structure,
premises, or use illegally established when it was initiated, created, or
constructed, which did not conform with the applicable conditions or provisions
of this chapter for the district in which the structure or use is located.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE, USE, or LOT, LEGAL. A lot, building, structure,
premises, or use lawfully established when it was initiated, created, or
constructed, which does not now conform with the applicable conditions or
provisions of this chapter for the district in which the structure or use is
located. See also USE.
   NOXIOUS MATTER or MATERIAL. Material capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction, or is capable of causing detrimental effects on
the physical or economic well being of individuals.
   NURSERY. An enterprise that conducts the retail and wholesale sale of plants
grown on site, as well as accessory items directly related to their care and
maintenance. The accessory items normally sold include clay pots, potting soil,
fertilizers, insecticides, hanging baskets, rakes, and shovels and the like,
but do not include power equipment such as gas or electric lawnmowers and farm
implements.
   NURSERY, DAY CARE. See DAY CARE FACILITY, STATE LICENSED.
   NURSING HOME. See REST/NURSING HOME.
   OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL or COMMERCIAL. A building or portion of a building
wherein services are performed involving predominately administrative,
professional or clerical operations.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Land devoted to the display of goods for sale, rent, lease,
advertising, or trade where such goods are not enclosed within a building.
   OPEN SPACE. Any open area not covered by structures, including but not
limited to the following uses: required or established yard areas, sidewalks,
trails, recreation areas, water bodies, shorelands, watercourses, wetlands,
ground water recharge areas, floodplain, floodway, flood fringe, erodible
slopes, woodland, and soils with severe limitation for development.
   OPEN USE. See USE.
   OUTLOT. A parcel of land, included in a plat, which is smaller than the
minimum size permitted for lots and which is thereby declared unbuildable until
combined with platting of additional land; or, a parcel of land which is
included in a plat and which is designated for public or private open space,
right-of-way, utilities, or other similar purposes.
   OWNER. An individual, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation,
trust or any other legal entity holding an equitable or legal ownership
interest in land, buildings, structures, dwelling unit(s) or other property.
   PARKING SPACE (OFF-STREET). An area of such shape and dimensions as provided
by this chapter, enclosed in the principal building, in an accessory building,
or enclosed, sufficient in size to store one motor vehicle, which has adequate
access to a public street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress and
egress of an automobile.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. Criterion established to control noise, odor, toxic or
noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, glare, heat, or other
nuisance characteristics generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
   PERMITTED USE. See USE.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
partnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A zoning designation that allows a mixing of
buildings and uses which cannot be otherwise addressed under this section, and/
or whereby internal site design standard deviations from this chapter may be
allowed to improve site design and operation.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City of Benson Planning Commission.
   PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all the requirements of the
city and in such form as required by Swift County for purposes of recording.
   PREMISES. A lot or plot with the required front, side and rear yards for a
dwelling, structure, or other use as allowed under this chapter.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING, STRUCTURE, or USE. The primary building, structure, or
use on a lot. See also USE.
   PUBLICATION. Notice placed in the official city newspaper stating time,
location and date of meeting and description of topic.
   RECREATIONAL AREAS/FACILITIES. Accessory structures and/or uses that are
customary and incidental to the principal use of the site, including swing
sets, play structures, sand boxes, skate board ramps, tennis courts, sport
courts, swimming pools, and their related aprons, and the like, intended for
the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the principal use and their
occasional guests.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY, STATE LICENSED. Any facility licensed by the Minnesota
Department of Human Services, public or private, which for gain or otherwise
regularly provides one or more persons with 24 hour per day substitute care,
food, lodging, training, education, supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation,
and treatment they need, but which for any reason cannot be furnished in the
person’s own home. Residential facilities include, but are not limited to,
state institutions under the control of the Commissioner of Human Services,
foster homes, halfway houses, residential treatment centers, maternity
shelters, group homes, residential programs or schools for handicapped children
with disabilities.
   RESORT. Any structure or group of structures containing more than two
dwelling units or separate living quarters designed or intended to serve as
seasonal or temporary dwellings on a rental or lease basis for profit with the
primary purpose of such structures being recreational in nature. Use may
include grocery for guests only, fish and game cleaning house, marine services,
boat landing and rental, recreational area and equipment, and similar uses
normally associated with a resort operation.
   REST/NURSING HOME. A state licensed facility or that part of a facility
which provides nursing care pursuant to M.S. Chapter 144A.01.
   RESTAURANT, DELIVERY or TAKEOUT. An establishment which by design of
physical facilities, service or packaging procedures permits or encourages the
purchase of prepared, ready-to-eat foods to either be picked up or delivered
for off-premise consumption.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE IN. Any place or premises used for sale, dispensing or
serving of food, refreshments or beverages on the premises, typically eaten in
the customers motor vehicle on site.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE THROUGH. An establishment which by design of physical
facilities, service or packaging procedures permits or encourages the purchase
of prepared, ready-to-eat foods to be picked up by driving through facility for
off-premise consumption.
   RESTAURANT, EAT IN. An establishment that serves food in or on non-
disposable dishes to be consumed primarily while seated at tables or booths
within the building.
   RETAIL BUSINESS. Stores and shops selling personal services or goods for
final consumption.
   RIDING STABLE. The training and riding of horses for private or public use
on lots of 20 or more acres. This may also include boarding of horses, training
of horses and riders, and similar uses and activities.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land acquired by reservation or dedication intended for public
use, and intended to be occupied or which is occupied by a street, trail,
railroad, utility lines, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary sewer, storm
sewer or other similar uses.
   SCHOOL. A building used for the purpose of elementary or secondary
education, which meets all the requirements of compulsory education laws of the
State of Minnesota, and not providing residential accommodations.
   SCHOOL, PRIVATE. Any building or group of buildings, not operated by a
public agency or unit of government, the use of which meets compulsory
education laws of the State of Minnesota, for elementary school, middle school
(junior high school), secondary (senior high school), or higher education and
which does not secure the major part of its funding from any governmental
source.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC. Any building or group of buildings, operated by a public
agency or unit of government, the use which meets compulsory education laws of
the State of Minnesota, for elementary education, middle school (junior high),
secondary school (senior high), or higher education which secures all of its
major part of funding from governmental sources.
   SECONDARY USE. See USE.
   SERVICE STATION. See AUTOMOBILE AND TRUCK SERVICE STATION.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, and the lot
line nearest thereto, except which if an outlot for a public trail separates
such lot line from a street right-of-way, setback shall mean the minimal
horizontal distance between a structure and the street right-of-way line.
   SHOPPING CENTER. Any grouping of two or more principal retail uses whether
on a single lot or an abutting lot under multiple or single ownership.
   SIGN. See §
154.020.
   SITE PLAN. A map drawn to scale depicting the development of a tract of
land, including, but not limited to, the location and relationship of
structures, streets, driveways, recreational areas, parking areas, easements,
utilities, landscaping, and walkways, as related to a proposed development.
   SKETCH PLAN. A rough sketch map and supportive text depicting the location,
general purpose, general type of land use and circulation pattern, primary
relationships between site elements and between the proposed development and
surrounding development, proposed general schedule of development, and
information on the proposed developer.
   SLAUGHTER FACILITY. A facility designed for the purpose of killing animals,
skinning, dressing and cutting up of carcasses, wrapping for sale for human
consumption with cooler and freezer storage and includes indoor confinement of
animals while awaiting slaughter but shall not include any cooking or process
related to processing plants such as smoking, curing or the manufacturing of
meat by-products or any process related to rendering plants such as the
manufacture of tallow, grease, glue, fertilizer or any other inedible product.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
alteration, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual
start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
on a site, such as pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the state of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not a part of the primary building, structure, or use. For an improvement, the
actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling,
floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it; or if there is no floor above, the
space between the floor and the ceiling next above.
   STREET. A public right-of-way not less than 50 feet in width which affords a
primary means of access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything which is built, constructed, planted, or erected; an
edifice or building of any kind; or any piece of work built up and/or composed
of parts joined together in some definite manner whether temporary or permanent
in character. Among other things, structures include but are not limited to
buildings, gazebos, decks, retaining walls, walls, fences, hedges and swimming
pools.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. See  NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE, USE, or LOT
ILLEGAL and NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE, USE, or LOT, LEGAL.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, other than incidental repairs, which
would prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as bearing
walls, columns, beams, girders, or foundations.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any structure intended for swimming or recreational bathing
that contains water over 24 inches deep. This includes in-ground, aboveground,
and on-ground swimming pools, hot tubs, portable and non-portable spas and
fixed in wading pools.
   THEATRE. A building or area for showing motion pictures, plays, or other
dramatic performances.
   TOWNHOUSE. A single structure consisting of at least three but not more than
eight dwelling units having the first story at or near the ground level with no
other dwelling units or portions thereof directly above or below, and each unit
having direct exterior access with no sharing of a common hallway for entry.
   TOWNHOUSE GROUP. A structure containing three or more contiguous town house
units.
   TOWNHOUSE UNIT. One of a group of three or more one-family attached
dwellings, commonly called row houses, patio houses, or court dwellings, having
a wall or walls in common with other dwellings but which otherwise is designed
to be and is separate from any other structure or structures except accessory
buildings.
   TOWNHOUSE UNIT BUILDING LOT. The lot on which there is built or is proposed
to be built one townhouse unit. Each town house unit maybe located on a
separate building lot. Such lot may be held in separate ownership and shall be
separately recordable.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land, structure, or building
thereon is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or
maintained.
      USE, CONDITIONAL. Those occupations, vocations, skills, arts, businesses,
professions, or uses specifically designated in each zoning district, which for
the respective conduct or performance in such designated districts may require
reasonable, but special, unusual or extraordinary limitations peculiar to the
use for the protection, promotion, and preservation of the general public
welfare, health, and safety, and the integrity of the City Comprehensive Plan
for which a conditional use permit is required.
      USE, NON-CONFORMING. A use of land, buildings, or structures lawfully
existing at the time of adoption of this chapter which does not comply with all
the regulations of this code or any use of land, building, or structure
lawfully existing prior to the adoption of an amendment which would not comply
with all regulations.
      USE, OPEN. The use of a lot without a building or including a building
incidental to the open use with a ground floor area equal to 5% or less of the
area of the lot.
      USE, PERMITTED. A public or private use which of itself conforms with the
purposes, objectives, requirements, regulations, and performance standards of a
particular district
      USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses. A USE, PRINCIPAL may be either permitted or
conditional.
      USE, SECONDARY. A use of land or of a building or a portion thereof which
is subordinate to and does not constitute the primary use of the land or
building.
   VARIANCE. A modification of or variation from the provisions of this chapter
consistent with the state enabling statute for municipalities, as applied to a
specific property and granted pursuant to the standards and procedures of this
chapter, except that a variance shall not be used for modification.
   WAREHOUSING. The storage of materials or equipment within an enclosed
building as a principal use, including packing and crating.
   WHOLESALING. The selling of goods, equipment, and materials by bulk to
another business that in turn sells to the final customer.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). Any device such as a wind charger,
windmill, or wind turbine which converts wind energy to a form of usable
energy.
   YARD. A required open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed by
a structure from its lowest ground level to the sky except as expressly
permitted in this code. A yard shall extend along a lot line and at right
angles to such lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations
for the district in which such lot is located. This shall also be known as the
BUILDING or STRUCTURE SETBACK REQUIREMENT.
      FRONT YARD. A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines and extending from the abutting front street right-of-
way line to a depth required in the yard regulations for the district in which
such lot is located.
      REAR YARD. A yard extending the full width of the rear lot line between
the side lot lines and then extending toward the front lot line for a depth as
specified in the yard regulations for the district in which such lot is
located.
      SIDE YARD. A yard extending along a side lot line between the front and
rear yards, having a width as specified in the yard regulations for the
district in which such lot is located.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the City Manager to be the
Zoning Administrator for the city.
   ZONING AMENDMENT. A change authorized by the City Council either in the
allowed use within a district or in the boundaries of the district.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas of the city (as delineated on the Zoning
Map) set aside for specific uses with specific regulations and provisions for
use and development as defined by this chapter.
   (C)   Illustration of certain defined terms. A series of drawings shall be
prepared by the Zoning Administrator to graphically show proper interpretation
of the following defined terms: lot line, front lot line, rear lot line, side
lot line, through lot, lot width, front yard, rear yard, and side yard.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03; Am. Ord. 1115.05, passed 12-12-05; Am. Ord.
1155.21, passed 8-2-21)
§ 154.003 RULES FOR APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Provisions as minimum standards. In their interpretation and
application, the provisions of this code shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, and
welfare.
   (B)   Most restrictive conditions prevail. Where the conditions imposed by
any provision of this code are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed in any other law, ordinance, statute, resolution,
or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which
impose higher standards or requirements shall prevail.
   (C)   Compliance required. Except as in this code specifically provided, no
structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or altered, and
no structure or land shall be used, for any purpose or in any manner, which is
not in conformity with this chapter.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.004 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE OF AIRPORT ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The Airport Zoning Ordinance, adopted under authority of the City-County
Zoning Board (the Planning Commission), a copy of which is on file in the City
Hall, is hereby adopted by reference herein.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
REGULATIONS
§ 154.015 BED AND BREAKFASTS.
   Conditional use permits for a bed and breakfast shall meet the following
conditions:
   (A)   The facility shall comply with all health, fire, safety rules and
other regulations of the state and the city.
   (B)   The maximum number of bedrooms shall be established at each facility.
   (C)   Limitations of additional functions such as receptions or business
meetings shall be established.
   (D)   Exterior appearance and lighting shall be compatible with the
neighborhood.
   (E)   Identification signs shall meet the requirements of §
154.020.
   (F)   The conditional use permit is restricted to the applicant and not the
property.
   (G)   All bedroom units shall be established within the principal residence.
   (H)   Cooking facilities shall not be permitted in the guest rooms.
   (I)   Appropriate insurance including liability insurance shall be filed
with the City Clerk;
   (J)   Other commercial enterprises shall not be operated in conjunction with
this facility without a home occupation conditional use permit.
   (K)   The facility shall comply with initial and annual reports on building
and housing code inspections.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.016 DAY CARE FACILITIES.
   The purpose of this section is to establish standards and procedures by
which day care facilities can be conducted within the city without jeopardizing
the health, safety, and general welfare of the day care participants and/or
surrounding neighborhood. This section establishes the city’s minimum
requirements for the establishment and operation of a day care facility which
are not defined as permitted uses by state statute or which are located in uses
other than single family homes. Day care facilities other than those defined as
permitted uses by state statutes which operate in a single family dwelling as
an accessory use shall be subject to §
154.018 and processed as a home occupation.
   (A)   Application. Day care facilities shall be allowed by conditional use
permit within all residential and business districts of the city and shall be
subject to the regulations and requirements of §
154.178. In addition to the city regulations, all day care facility operations
shall comply with the minimum requirements of the Minnesota Department of Human
Services, as may be amended.
   (B)   Declaration of conditions. The Planning Commission and City Council
may impose such conditions on the granting of a day care facility conditional
use permit as may be necessary to carry out the purpose and provisions of this
section.
   (C)   General provisions. Day care facilities shall be allowed as a
principal use or as an accessory use, provided that the day care facilities
meet all the applicable provisions of this section.
      (1)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The proposed site for a day care
facility as a principal use shall have a minimum lot area as set forth in the
respective zoning district. The City Council may increase the required lot area
in those cases where such an increase is considered necessary to ensure
compatibility of activities and maintain the public health, safety and general
welfare. The day care facility shall meet the setback requirements of the
respective zoning district.
      (2) Sewer and water. All day care facilities shall have access to
municipal sewer and water or have adequate private sewer and water to protect
the health and safety of all persons who occupy the facility.
      (3)   Buffering. Unless exempted by the Zoning Administrator, where an
outdoor play area of a day care facility abuts any commercial or industrial use
or zone, or public right-of-way, the day care facility shall provide screening
along the shared boundary of such uses, zones, or public rights-of-way. All of
the required fencing and screening shall comply with the fencing and screening
requirements of §
154.017.
      (4)   Parking.
         (a)   There shall be adequate off-street parking, which shall be
located separately from any outdoor play area and shall be in compliance with §
154.019.
         (b)   When a day care facility is an accessory use within the
structure containing another principal use, parking for each use shall be
calculated separately for determining the total off-street parking spaces
required. An exception to this requirement may be granted by the Zoning
Administrator in instances where no increase in off-street parking demands
result.
      (5)   Signage. All signing and informational or visual communication
devices shall be in compliance with §
154.020.
      (6)   Compliance with state requirements. The structure and operation of
daycare facilities shall be in compliance with State of Minnesota Department of
Human Services regulations and shall be licensed accordingly.
      (7)   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any day
care facility conditional use permits to inspect the premises in which the
occupation is being conducted to insure compliance with the provisions of this
section or any conditions additionally imposed.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.017 FENCES/SCREENING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the regulation
of fences in the city, to prevent fences from being built which would be a
hazard to the public, to prevent unreasonable interference with the uses and
enjoyment of neighboring property, and to provide compatibility with existing
uses, other zoning restrictions and drainageways.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subsection, the following
definitions apply:
   FENCES. Any linear structure used to prevent access by persons or animals or
to prevent visual or sound interference, including hedges.
   HEDGES. A row of bushes or shrubs.
   (C)   Permitted use of fences in yards. Fences may be permitted in all
yards, subject to the following:
      (1)   All fences shall be located entirely upon the private property of
the owner. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the private property
to ensure that the fence is constructed on private property.
      (2)   Where the property line is not clearly defined, a certificate of
survey may be required by the Zoning Administrator to establish the property
line.
      (3)   No fence shall be permitted on any public property, right-of-way,
or easement without the express authorization from the public agency having
jurisdiction over the property or right-of-way.
      (4)   In residential districts, fences located in the side yard and rear
yard shall not exceed six feet in height.
      (5)   In residential districts, fences located in the front yard beyond
the building line shall not exceed 42 inches in height.
      (6)   In business districts, fences shall not exceed eight feet in height
in the rear yard unless a conditional use permit is issued pursuant to §
154.178.
      (7)   In business districts, fences shall not exceed 42 inches in height
in the front and side yards unless a conditional use permit is issued pursuant
to §
154.178.
      (8)   In industrial districts, fences shall not exceed eight feet in
height unless a conditional use permit is issued pursuant to §
154.178.
      (9)   In industrial districts, fences that abut rear yard(s) in
residential districts shall not exceed six feet in height, and fences that abut
front and side yard(s) in residential districts shall not exceed 42 inches in
height.
      (10)   The height shall be measured from the ground level to the top of
the fence. In the case where a fence has variable heights or where the ground
slopes, the height of the fence shall be the average height, but in no case
shall the height of any one point exceed six inches above the maximum allowed
by this section. Fence posts may exceed eight inches above the maximum allowed
by this section.
      (11)   The finished side or face shall face abutting property, and the
structural support side shall face the fence owner’s property.
      (12)   Both sides of the fence shall be maintained in a condition of good
repair and appearance by its owner and shall not be allowed to become and
remain in a condition of disrepair or danger, or constitute a nuisance, public
or private.
      (13)   No physical damage of any kind shall occur to abutting property
during installation of fences unless it is allowed under agreement with the
adjacent property owners.
      (14)   Any fence that is potentially dangerous to the public safety or
health by reason of construction or sharp projections or protrusions shall be
removed or repaired.
      (15)   No fence may be erected on either street side of a corner lot that
will obstruct or impede the clear view of an intersection by approaching
traffic.
      (16)   No fence shall be erected where it will impede a drainageway or
drainage easement.
      (17)   No fence shall be erected before all lots within a drainage system
or platted block have had the final grade established and approved and all lots
within the system or platted block have had turf established with grass seed or
sod.
      (18)   (a)   In all districts, fences shall consist of materials
comparable in grade and quality to the following:
            1.   Chain link;
            2.   Wood;
            3.   Wrought iron;
            4.   Vinyl;
            5.   Plastic;
            6.   Decorative masonry; or
            7.   Other acceptable similar material, constructed from
commercially available materials.
         (b)   Fences shall not be constructed from chicken wire, welded wire,
plastic deer fence netting or similar product, snow fence, branches, corrugated
metal, sheet metal, or material originally intended for other purposes, unless
upon showing of a high degree or architectural quality through the use of such,
prior approval is granted by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Along property lines.
      (1)   Fences that require continuing maintenance such as wooden privacy
fences or hedges shall not be erected or planted within one foot of a property
line.
      (2)   Fences in business or industrial districts may be erected on the
lot line to the height of eight feet.
   (E)   Prohibited fences.
       (1)   Electrical fences.
      (2)   Barbed wire fences unless used by certain agricultural, industrial
or public service users for health and safety purposes and a conditional use
permit is issued pursuant to §
154.178.
   (F)   Existing. No existing fence in violation of this section will be
allowed to be replaced or rebuilt. Should an existing fence be replaced or
rebuilt, it must come under the regulations of this section.
   (G)   Required buffering and screening.
      (1)   Purpose. Buffering and screening serves to soften the outline of
buildings, to screen glare and noise, and to create a visual and/or physical
barrier between conflicting land uses. Buffering and screening are required
between specific lots in different zoning districts and between land
developments and along existing streets. The extent of buffering and screening
required shall be determined by the type of use proposed and the adjacent uses
and/or zoning surrounding the proposed development. The impact of the proposed
use on adjoining properties is the basis for establishing buffering and
screening standards.
      (2)   Multiple family uses.
         (a)   Where any townhouse, manor home, manufactured home park or
apartment dwelling structure abuts property zoned for less dense residential
use, the higher density residential use shall provide screening along all off-
street parking or formal outdoor recreational activity areas to mitigate
possible adverse impacts. Housing of similar types and densities shall not be
subject to special screening requirements for formal outdoor recreational
activity areas.
         (b)   Along boundaries where parking or formal outdoor recreational
activity areas exist, all the fencing and screening specifically required by
this chapter shall be subject to §
154.017 and shall consist of either fence or a green belt planting strip as
provided below.
               1.    A green belt planting strip shall consist of evergreen
trees and/or deciduous trees and plants and shall be of sufficient width and
density to provide an effective visual buffer. This planting strip shall be
designed to provide complete visual screening to a minimum height of six feet.
Alternatively, earth mounding or berms may be used to achieve all or a portion
of the required buffer. The screening plan including type of planting and
berming shall require the approval of the city.
               2.   A required screening fence shall be constructed of masonry,
brick, wood, metal, or a hedge. Such fence shall provide a solid screening
effect of six feet in height. The design and materials used in constructing a
required screening fence shall be subject to the approval of the city pursuant
to this section. The City Council may also require planting of shrubs or trees
in association with required fencing.
      (3)   Non-residential uses. Where any non-residential use abuts property
zoned for residential use, the non-residential use shall provide screening
along its boundary with the residential property. Screening shall also be
provided where a non-residential use is across the street from a residential
zone, but not on that side of a non-residential use considered to be the front
as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   (H)   Violations. Violations of this section may be enforced by injunction,
and the city shall be entitled to the remedy of abatement in order that a fence
erected in violation of this section may be removed.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03; Am. Ord. 1149.19, passed 10-7-19)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.018 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to maintain the character and integrity
of residential areas and to provide a means through the establishment of
specific standards and procedures by which home occupation can be conducted in
residential neighborhoods without jeopardizing the health, safety, and general
welfare of the surrounding neighborhood.
   (B)   No conditional use permit for a home occupation shall be granted or
renewed unless the Planning Commission makes a finding that all of the
following criteria are met:
      (1)   Additional employees who live outside of the dwelling may be
permitted. The number of employees shall be stated in the application. If
additional employees are necessary for the home occupation, the property owner
shall be required to request a new conditional use permit.
      (2)   Any home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the residential use of the premises, shall not change the residential character
thereof, and shall result in no incompatibility or disturbance to the
surrounding residential uses.
      (3)   No interior or exterior alterations shall be made to the principal
structure for business purposes and the use shall occupy no more than two
rooms.
      (4)   Said use shall not create odor, dust, noise, electrical
disturbances, glare, vibrations, or other hazards or nuisances noticeable
outside the dwelling.
      (5)   Uses shall not involve the use of commercial motor vehicles for
delivery of materials to and from the premises more than once a week unless a
conditional use permit is issued by the city.
      (6)   One non-illuminated nameplate, which is not more than one square
foot in area that is attached to the building entrance shall be allowed for a
home occupation, along with the signs allowed in a residential area pursuant to
§
154.020.
      (7)   There shall be no exterior storage of materials or equipment or
display of merchandise.
      (8)   Commodities may be sold as part of the home occupation but shall be
only a minor and insubstantial part of the total home occupation.
      (9)   The home occupation shall meet all applicable fire and building
codes.
      (10)   No home occupation shall be conducted between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., unless a conditional use permit is issued.
      (11)   Parking shall be controlled such that no on-street parking will
occur and all off-street parking shall require no more than two additional
parking spaces located on the current driveway or adjacent side yard and not in
front of any part of the principal building, except the garage or an attached
porch.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.019 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Purpose. The regulation of off-street parking spaces in these zoning
regulations is intended to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right-
of-way and to promote the safety and general welfare of the public by
establishing minimum requirements for off-street parking of motor vehicles in
accordance with the intensity of utilization of the various parcels of land or
structures.
   (B)   Scope of regulations. The off-street parking requirements of this
section shall apply within all zoning districts for uses and structures, except
as hereinafter provided. The off-street parking and loading requirements of
this section may be modified by obtaining a conditional use permit pursuant to
§
154.178.
   (C)   General provisions.
      (1)   Application. For the purpose of this chapter, the off-street
parking of this section shall apply to all motor vehicles including, but not
limited to, passenger automobiles, trucks, vans, and motorcycles, unless
otherwise specified herein.
      (2)   Site plans. All site plans submitted for a structure requiring
parking spaces and/or facilities shall show or designate the parking and/or
loading area(s), number of parking spaces, and type of surfacing, screening,
drainage, curbing, sidewalks, and other improvements that may be required to be
installed. Said plan shall be a part of the building permit for any such
structure, and except for one and two family dwellings, no final certificate of
occupancy shall be issued until all items shown on the plan for parking or
loading facilities have been completed, unless an agreement supported by a
financial security is provided for the completion of said plan. For lots of
record established after January 1, 2003, all site plans for single family
homes must provide for location of at least one stall garage, whether or not
construction is intended.
      (3)   Change in land use. When the site intensity or use of a building
and/or property is increased with consequential effect upon the parking
requirements as prescribed in this section, the parking requirements as
prescribed herein shall be used to provide for such increase in the site
intensity and/or use.
      (4)   Reduction of existing of street parking space or lot area. Off-
street parking spaces and loading spaces or lot area devoted to parking or
loading space existing upon the effective date of this chapter shall not be
reduced in number or size unless said number or size exceeds the requirements
set forth herein for a similar new use.
      (5)   Handicap parking. Handicapped parking spaces shall be provided as
applicable pursuant to M.S. § 168.021, as may be amended.
      (6)   Screening. Where any business or industrial use or parking lot
containing more than six parking spaces is adjacent to developed property zoned
for residential use, that business, industry, or parking lot shall provide
screening along the boundary of the residential property. The screening
required shall consist of a fence, wall, green planting, or other material of a
type and design approved by the Zoning Administrator based upon advice from the
Planning Commission. See also §
154.017.
   (D)   Off-site parking. When parking is provided on a site other than the
lot or tract upon which a principal use is located, said parking area shall be
in the ownership of and remain in the possession of the owner of the principal
use for which it is designated. No authorization for separate parking
facilities shall be given until such time as the City Council is reasonably
certain that the ownership and use of the parking area will continue and that
the site will be well maintained. Off-site parking facilities may only be
allowed by a conditional use permit and shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   Ordinance compliance. Off-site parking shall be developed and
maintained in compliance with all requirements and standards of this chapter.
      (2)   Access. Reasonable access from off-street parking facilities to the
use being serviced shall be provided as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Proximity to multiple family dwelling. The furthest space of an
off-site parking lot for multiple family dwellings shall not be located more
than 300 feet (excluding public right-of-way) from any normally used entrance
of the principal use serviced.
      (4)   Proximity for non-residential uses. The furthest space of an off-
site lot for non-residential uses shall not be located more than 300 feet
(excluding public rights-of-way) from the main entrance of the principal use
being served.
   (E)   Off-street parking.
      (1)   Trucks with gross vehicle weight of 12,000 pounds or more, or
greater than 30 feet in length, as well as contracting or excavating equipment,
storage trailers, and mobile storage compartments shall not be parked, stored
or otherwise located in any “R” district within the city unless being used in
conjunction with a temporary service benefitting the premises.
      (2)   Junked or inoperable vehicles may not be parked, stored or
otherwise located on any property within the city for a period greater than 96
hours unless placed completely within an enclosed building or garage.
      (3)   Required off-street parking spaces shall not be utilized for open
storage goods or for the storage of vehicles, which are inoperable, or for sale
or rent.
      (4)   Parking shall not be allowed in areas that are not designated for
off-street parking.
      (5)   No motor vehicle repair work of any kind shall be permitted in
conjunction with exposed off-street parking facilities, except for minor
repairs of motor vehicles owned by the occupant or resident of the principal
use for which the parking space is intended. No exterior storage of car parts
is allowed at any time.
      (6)   It shall be the joint and several responsibilities of the operator
and owner of the principal use, uses, and/or building to maintain, in a neat
and adequate manner, the parking space, accessways, and landscaping.
      (7)   A parking space shall not be less than 300 square feet per motor
vehicle of standing and maneuvering area. Parking spaces shall be a minimum of
nine feet by 20 feet, with a 25 foot wide minimum driveway.
      (8)   Off-street parking requirements for the various uses shall be as
follows:
USE NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
USE            NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Subd. 1. Residential:
Single Family  Two spaces
Dwellings
Two Family     Two spaces per family unit
Dwellings
Multiple
Family
Dwellings,     Two spaces per family unit
Townhouses,
Manor Homes
Housing for    1.5 spaces for each dwelling unit
Elderly
Subd. 2. Institutional/Educational/Cultural:
Auditoriums,   One space for each four permanent seats based on the design capacity
Theaters,      of the main assembly hail. Facilities
Religious      as may be provided in conjunction with such buildings or uses shall be
Institutions,  subject to additional requirements which are imposed by this section.
Sports Arenas
Community
Center,
Physical
Culture        One space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
Studio,
Libraries,
Museums
Nursing Homes, One space for each four beds.
Rest Homes
Private or
Private
Nonprofit      One space for each eight seats of design capacity.
Baseball
Fields
               Three spaces for each classroom. This requirement may be increased or
Schools        reduced at the Zoning Administrator s discretion to reflect facility
(Public or     use and/or parking policy. Adequate space shall be allowed for the
Private)       dropping off and/or picking up of students as determined by the Zoning
               Administrator.
Subd. 3. Non-Residential:
Animal         Five spaces plus one space for each 500 square feet of floor area over
Hospitals or   1,000 square feet.
Kennels
Automobile     Shall be determined by the type of automobile wash as listed below.
Washes
Automatic      Five spaces or one per employee on maximum shift, whichever is
Drive Through  greater.
Service
Self Service   One space per bay.
Car Wash
Motor Fuel
Station        One space in addition to that required for the station.
Automobile
Washes
Beauty or      Two spaces for each beauty or barber chair.
Barber Shops
               Five spaces for each lane or alley, plus additional spaces as may be
Bowling Alleys required herein for related uses contained within the principal
               structure.
Day Care       One space for each employee, plus one space for each six children of
Facilities     licensed capacity.
Drive In
Convenience    One space for each 2.5 seats plus one space for each 15 square feet of
Food           public service and counter area.
Establishment
Furniture      One space for each 400 square feet of floor area for the first 25,000
Sales          square feet, plus one space for each 600    square feet thereafter.
               One space for each employee on the major shift or one space for each
Manufacturing  350 square feet, whichever is greater, plus one space for each company
               motor vehicle on the premises.
Medical,
Chiropractic,
or Dental      One space for every 200 feet of floor area.
Offices or
Clinics
Motels,
Hotels,        One space per sleeping unit, plus one space per day shift employee
Lodging or     plus one space for each 40 square feet devoted to meeting or banquet
Boarding       rooms.
Houses
               Four spaces plus two spaces for each service stall. Those facilities
Motor Fuel     designed for sale of other items than strictly automobile products,
Stations       parts or service shall be required to provide additional parking in
               compliance with other applicable sections of this section.
Office
Buildings and
Professional
Offices, Other
than any area
for Doctors,
Chiropractors, One Space for each 250 square feet of floor area.
or Dentists;
Banks without
Drive Up
Tellers,
Public
Administration
Offices
Restaurants,
Private Clubs,
Lodges, Food
Dispensing     One space for each 40 square feet of floor area of dining and bar area
Establishments and one space for each 80 square feet of kitchen area.
(Except Drive
In
Restaurants)
Retail
Commercial
Uses, Except   One space for each 200 square feet of floor area.
as Prescribed
Herein
Retail Sales
and Service
Business with
50% or More of Eight spaces or one space for each 200 square feet devoted to public
Gross Floor    sales or service plus one space for each 500 square feet of storage
Area Devoted   area, whichever is greater.
to Storage,
Warehouses,
and/or
Industry
Shopping       One space for each 200 square feet of leasable floor area.
Center
Truck Wash     Three spaces plus one space per bay.
Warehousing    One space for each two employees of the largest shift or one space for
               each 2,000 square feet of floor area, whichever is greater.
Subd. 4. Non-Specified Uses:
For uses not specifically listed above, off-street parking requirements shall be
computed by the Zoning Administrator on the same basis as required for the most
similar listed uses. In such cases, the Zoning Administrator shall also conduct off-
street parking reference materials including, but not limited to, manuals prepared by
the American Planning Association, and Institute of Transportation Engineers
 
   (F)   Off-street loading space, design and maintenance; dimensional
requirements.
      (1)   Residential uses. Required off-street truck loading or unloading
spaces for residential uses shall be at least 12 feet in width and 32 feet in
length. Where a loading space parallel to a building is to be utilized, such
area shall not be less than 12 feet in width nor less than 40 feet in length.
In no instance shall any designated side loading space encroach upon a fire
lane or driving aisle or parking spaces.
      (2)   Non-residential uses. Required off-street truck loading or
unloading spaces for non- residential uses shall be at least 12 feet in width,
14 feet in height, and 60 feet in length. Where a loading space parallel to a
building is to be utilized, such area shall not be less than 12 feet in width
nor less than 65 feet in length. In no instance shall any designated side
loading space encroach upon a fire lane or driving aisle or parking spaces.
      (3)   Reductions. Reductions to loading space size may be granted by the
Zoning Administrator upon the demonstration of facility need.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03; Ord. 1160.24, passed 3-4-24)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.020 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is intended to establish an effective
means of communication in the city, to maintain and enhance the aesthetic
environment and the city’s ability to attract sources of economic development
and growth, to improve pedestrian and traffic safety, to minimize the possible
adverse effects of signs on nearby public and private property, and to enable
fair and consistent enforcement of these sign regulations. It is the intent of
this section to protect and promote the health, safety, general welfare,
aesthetics, and image of the community by regulating signs that are intended to
communicate to the public, and to use signs which meet the city’s goals;
      (2)   Establish standards which permit businesses a reasonable and
equitable opportunity to advertise their name and service;
      (3)   Ensure that signs do not create safety hazards;
      (4)   Ensure that signs are designed, constructed, installed, and
maintained in a manner that does not adversely impact safety and unduly
distract motorists;
      (5)   Preserve and protect property values;
      (6)   Ensure that signs are in proportion to the scale of, and are
architecturally compatible with the principal structures;
      (7)   Limit temporary commercial signs and advertising displays which
provide an opportunity for grand opening and occasional sale events while
restricting signs that create continuous visual clutter and hazards at public
rights-of-way.
   (B)   Findings. The city finds it necessary for the promotion and
preservation of the public health, safety, welfare, and aesthetics of the
community that the construction, location, size, and maintenance of signs be
controlled. Further, the city finds:
      (1)   Permanent and temporary signs have direct impact on, and a
relationship to, the image of the community;
      (2)   The manner of installation, location and maintenance of signs
affects the public health, safety, welfare, and aesthetics of the community;
      (3)   An opportunity for a viable identification of community businesses
and institutions must be established;
      (4)   The safety of motorists, cyclists, pedestrians, and other users of
public streets and property is affected by the number, size, location and
appearance of signs that unduly divert the attention of drivers;
      (5)   Installation of signs suspended from, projecting over, or placed on
top of buildings, walks or other structures may constitute a hazard during
periods of high winds and an obstacle to effective fire fighting and emergency
service;
      (6)   Uncontrolled and unlimited signs adversely impact the image and
aesthetic attractiveness of the community and thereby undermines economic value
and growth;
      (7)   Uncontrolled and unlimited signs, particularly temporary signs,
which are commonly located adjacent to public rights-of-way, or are, located at
driveway/street intersections, result in roadside clutter and obstruction of
views of oncoming traffic. This creates a hazard to drivers and pedestrians and
also adversely impacts a logical flow of information.
   (C)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following words and phrases
shall have the meaning indicated:
   BUILDING CANOPY or AWNING. A roof-like structure projecting from the
building over an entrance or window that provides weather protection for the
entry or window and may include the immediately adjacent area. BUILDING
CANOPIES shall be considered part of the wall area and thus shall not warrant
additional sign area.
   SIGN. An illustration, which directs attention to an object, product, place,
activity, person, institution, organization or business.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING BILLBOARD. A sign that directs attention to a business or
profession or to a commodity, service or entertainment not sold or offered upon
the premises, where such sign is located or to which it is attached.
   SIGN, AREA. The entire area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the
extreme limits of such sign. However, such perimeter shall not include any
structural elements lying outside of such sign and not forming an integral part
or border of the sign. The maximum square footage of multi-faced signs shall
not exceed two times the allowed square footage of a single-faced sign.
   SIGN, AWNING. A sign placed on an awning.
   SIGN, BANNER. Any sign made of strip of cloth or similar material not
exceeding 15 square feet hung up on a crossbar or between two points of any
permanent structure or poles advertising an event such as a grand opening,
special sale or similar situation; in no event, however, shall such sign be
placed on any lot or parcel of land for a period to exceed 30 days out of any
12 month period.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign that directs attention to a business or profession or
to the commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises
where such sign is located or to which it is attached.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. A sign which displays information announcing the
approved construction or development of the site on which it is displayed.
   SIGN, FLASHING. An illuminated sign, which has a light source not constant
in intensity or color at all times while such sign is in use.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A self-supported sign not affixed to another structure.
   SIGN, GROUND. A sign, which is supported by one or more uprights, poles or
braces in or upon the ground.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign, which is lighted with an artificial light source.
   SIGN, MOTION. A sign that has revolving parts or signs that produce moving
effects through the use of illumination.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE. A sign, which states the address of a property or in the
case of a business or industrial property, the name and/or address of the
business or industrial occupant. Nameplate signs shall be surface-mounted on
the wall of the building of the property.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES SPONSORSHIP. A sign which displays advertisement for
sponsors of any event or facility, such as an athletic event or field, on the
location where the sign is located.
   SIGN, POLE. A sign wholly supported by a sign structure in the ground.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. An unlighted sign not affixed to the ground or building and
easily carried or moved.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A wall sign which protrudes horizontally more than one
foot from the wall to which it is attached.
   SIGN, RAILROAD. A sign, which instructs, regulates, or warns automobile
drivers, pedestrians, and the public of the railroad and is obviously not
intended, for advertising purposes.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign offering property (land and/or buildings) for
sale, lease or rent and located on the property being offered.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet of a building.
   SIGN, STRUCTURE, means the support, uprights, braces and framework of the
sign.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign, except a banner sign, not exceeding ten square
feet placed in such a manner as not to be solidly affixed to any building,
structure, or land and advertising an event such as a bazaar, special sale,
sporting event, or similar situation; in no event, however, shall such sign be
placed on any lot or parcel of land for a period to exceed 30 days out of any
12 month period.
   SIGN, TRAFFIC. A sign, which instructs, regulates, or warns automobile
drivers, pedestrians, and the public using the streets, roads, and highways and
is obviously not intended, for advertising purposes.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building
with the exposed face of the sign parallel to such wall.
   SIGN, WARNING. A sign, which warns the public of danger or hazard in the
immediate vicinity and is obviously not intended, for advertising purposes.
   (D)   Regulations and restrictions. The following standards shall apply to
all signs in all districts by this subdivision unless specifically set forth
otherwise by this section. Determination as to the applicability of the
standards to any given sign shall rest with the Zoning Administrator subject to
the administrative appeal procedures set forth in this section.
   (E)   General regulations and restrictions.
      (1)   Conformity with law. All signs hereafter created or maintained,
except for official traffic and public street signs, shall conform with the
provisions of this section; with other applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city; and, relative to all federal and state highways, with the Minnesota
Outdoor Advertising Control Act, M.S. § 173.01, as amended. The construction of
all signs permitted by this section shall be in accordance with the Minnesota
State Building Code, and with the current edition of the Uniform Sign Code
published by the International Conference of Building Officials, which is
hereby adopted by reference as part of this section, a copy of which shall be
maintained by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Awning/canopy sign. The sign area on an awning or canopy shall be
deducted from the sign area from any other permitted sign on the property. The
lowest point of the awning or canopy must be at least eight feet above the
sidewalk, or, if no existing sidewalk, then measured from the average grade at
the base of the sign.
      (3)   Ground signs.
         (a)   No ground sign for which a permit is required shall be erected
to a height of more than 12 feet above the ground, unless the face is
constructed of sheet metal or other non-combustible facing materials.
         (b)   The bottom of the facing of every ground sign shall be at least
three feet above the ground, which space may be filled with landscaping,
platform or decorative trim of light wood or metal construction.
         (c)   The soil used for the dug-in type of anchor or post support
shall be carefully placed and thoroughly compacted. The anchors and supports
shall penetrate to a depth below ground level greater than that of the frost
line.
      (4)   Hazardous signs. No sign shall be allowed that prevents egress from
or ingress to any door, window, or fire escape; that tends to accumulate debris
as a fire hazard; or that is attached to a standpipe or fire escape or in any
other way constitutes a hazard to health, safety, or general welfare of the
public.
      (5)   Indecent or offensive signs. No sign shall contain any indecent or
offensive picture or written material.
      (6)   Multi-faced signs. Multi-faced signs shall not exceed two times the
allowed square footage of single faced signs, except for advertising signs
which shall be limited to single facing.
      (7)   Non-commercial speech signs. Non-commercial speech signs are
permitted anywhere that other signs are permitted subject to the same general
regulations and restrictions applicable to such signs.
      (8)   Obsolete signs. Any sign for which no permit has been issued shall
be taken down and removed by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial
use of the building, or land upon which the sign may be found within 30 days
after written notice from the Zoning Administrator.
      (9)   Projection signs. Projection signs shall only be allowable in
industrial districts. Signs shall in no case project from a building or
structure to any point closer than two feet of a line drawn perpendicularly
upward from the curb line. No projecting sign shall be less than nine feet
above the sidewalk or the ground level. All projecting signs for which a permit
is required shall be constructed entirely of fire resistant material.
      (10)   Public right-of-way signs. Signs shall not be permitted within the
public right-of-way, or within dedicated public easements except the following:
         (a)   Public announcement signs for city-wide and free community
events by civic groups;
         (b)   Directional real estate signs for community-wide annual events;
         (c)   Street, warning, directional and other official non-commercial
signs erected by a government agency;
         (d)   Private signs, other than public utility warning signs, are
prohibited within the public right-of-way of any street or way or other public
right-of-way.
      (11)   Required marking on signs. After the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article was derived, every sign for which a permit is
required shall have painted in a conspicuous place thereon in letters not less
than one inch in height, the date of erection, the permit number and the
voltage of any electrical apparatus used in connection therewith.
      (12)   Sign location. All signs shall direct primary attention to the
business, commodity, service activity, or entertainment conducted, sold or
offered on the premises where the sign is located, except as otherwise
specified and allowed.
      (13)   Sign maintenance. The owner, lessee, or manager of any sign, and
the owner of the land upon which the sign is located, is responsible for
keeping the grass and other vegetation cut and for keeping debris and rubbish
cleaned up and removed from the property where the sign is located. Further,
the same parties shall be responsible for assuring that every sign, including
which may be specifically exempt from this section relative to permits and
permit fees, shall be maintained in good structural condition at all times. All
signs shall be kept neatly painted, including all metal parts and supports
thereof that are not galvanized or of must resistant material
      (14) Sign repair or removal. Signs which, by reason of deterioration, may
become unsafe or unsightly, shall be repaired or removed by the licensee, sign
owner, or owner of property upon which the sign stands upon written notice of
the City Zoning Administrator.
      (15)   Unsafe or dangerous signs. Any sign which becomes structurally
unsafe, in disrepair, abandoned or endangers the safety of a building or
premises shall be taken down and removed or structurally improved by the owner,
agent, or person having the beneficial use of the building, structure, or land
upon which the sign is located within ten days after written notification from
the City Zoning Administrator.
      (16)   Wall signs. Wall signs attached to exterior walls of solid masonry
or concrete shall be safely and securely attached to the same by means of metal
anchors, bolts or expansion screws of not less than 3/8 inch in diameter which
shall be embedded at least five inches. No wooden blocks or anchorage with wood
used in connection with screws or nails shall be considered proper anchorage,
except in the case of wall signs attached to buildings with walls of wood. No
wall sign shall be entirely supported by an unbraced parapet wall.
      (17)   Property owner consent. Signs shall not be placed on any property
without approval of the property owner(s).
      (18)   Vehicle signs. A vehicle may not be used as a sign or as the base
for a sign where the primary purpose of the vehicle in that location is its use
as a sign.
   (F)   Regulations and restrictions for specific signs.
       (1)   Advertising signs/billboards. No advertising sign/billboard shall
be allowed within the city’s boundary.
      (2)   Banner signs. Banner signs shall conform to the provisions of this
article just as permanently affixed signs.
      (3)   Construction signs. Construction signs not exceeding 32 square feet
in area shall be allowed in all zoning districts during construction. Such
signs shall be removed when the project is substantially completed.
      (4)   Electrically illuminated signs. No electrically illuminated sign
shall be permitted in a residential or agricultural zoning district.
         (a)   The light source shall not be directly visible and shall be
arranged to reflect away from adjoining premises.
         (b)   The illuminated source shall not be placed so as to cause
confusion or hazard to traffic, or to conflict with traffic control signs or
lights.
         (c)   All applications for signs which are to be illuminated shall
indicate the level of illumination, in foot candles.
         (d)   Illuminated signs may be permitted, but flashing signs, except
ones giving time, date, temperature, weather or similar public service
information, shall be prohibited. Signs giving off intermittent, rotating or
direction lights are prohibited.
         (e)   Illuminated signs shall be diffused or indirect so as not to
direct rays of light into adjacent property or onto any public street or way.
No illuminated signs or their support structures shall be located closer than
25 feet to the roadway surface or closer than ten feet to a street right-of-way
line or property line, not withstanding more restrictive portions of this
section.
         (f)   The city may specify the hours any sign may be illuminated. The
hours of illumination may be specified on the permit or any time during the
life of the sign. Illuminated signs shall have a shielded light source.
      (5)   Home occupation signs. One non-illuminated nameplate, which is not
more than one square foot in area that is attached to the building entrance
shall be permitted in conjunction with any home occupation or interim home
occupation.
      (6)   Moving signs. No sign which revolves, rotates, or has any visibly
moving parts shall be permitted, except that signs alternately displaying time
and temperature and barber poles may be allowed.
      (7)   Mounting of signs. Signs shall not be placed or mounted on a fence,
tree, stone or other natural growth nor on any utility pole or structure.
      (8)   Painted wall signs. Signs shall not be painted directly on the
outside wall of a building.
      (9)   Political signs. Political signs are allowed in any zoning
district, on private property, with the consent of the owner of the property.
Such signs must be removed within seven days following the date of the election
or elections to which they apply.
      (10)   Portable signs. A portable sign shall only give the name and
nature of the business and hours of operation.
         (a)   There will be no more than one portable sign per business.
         (b)   Portable signs shall not be larger than 30 inches by 30 inches
of display space on each side with a total height of no more than four feet.
The size of a portable sign shall not be included in the total square footage
allowed on other permitted signs.
         (c)   A sign permit shall be required for all portable signs.
         (d)   All portable signs shall be located on the same parcel on which
the business is located. The sign shall not be located in the road right-of-way
or placed so as to interfere with pedestrian traffic.
         (e)   Portable signs and mobile signs on wheels shall be in place only
during the hours the business is open.
         (f)   Inflatable signs are not permitted.
         (g)   Portable signs and mobile signs on wheels must be secured so as
to not create a public safety hazard by acts of nature or movement by vandals.
      (11)   Real estate signs.
         (a)   On-premises real estate signs advertising the sale, rental or
lease of real estate subject to the following conditions:
            1.   One non-illuminated sign is permitted per street frontage;
            2.   Sign display area shall not exceed 16 square feet per sign on
property containing less than ten acres in area, and 32 square feet per sign on
property containing ten or more acres;
            3.   No such sign shall exceed ten feet in overall height, nor be
located less than ten feet from any property line;
            4.   All temporary real estate signs shall be removed within seven
days following sale, lease, or rental of the property.
         (b)   Off-premises real estate signs advertising the sale, rental or
lease of business and industrial buildings:
            1.   One non-illuminated sign is permitted per building.
            2.   Such signs shall only be permitted in business and industrial
districts, and on property located within the same subdivision or development
as the building being advertised.
            3.   Such signs shall not be located closer than 100 feet from any
other such sign located on the same side of the street.
            4.   Sign display area shall not exceed 32 square feet, and the
height of such signs shall not exceed ten feet.
            5.   Such signs shall be setback at least ten feet from any
property line.
            6.   Such signs shall be removed within seven days following lease
or sale of the building floor space which it is advertising.
            7.   Provide written permission of property owner.
         (c)   Real estate development project signs may be erected for the
purpose of selling or promoting a single family residential project of ten or
more dwelling units provided:
            1.   Such signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and shall
require a sign permit;
            2.   Only one such sign shall be erected on each road frontage with
a maximum of three signs per project;
            3.   Such signs shall be removed when the project is 80% completed
or within six months or when sold or leased, whichever comes first;
            4.   Such signs shall not be located closer than 100 feet to any
existing residence.
      (12)   Roof signs. Roof signs are prohibited in all zoning districts;
signs or other signs attached to a building projecting above the roof line or
parapet of the building to which it is attached shall constitute a roof sign as
defined by this section.
      (13)   Temporary signs.
         (a)   Signs for nonprofit organizations, city-sponsored events, fairs,
and the like, are
permitted.
         (b)   The total square feet of all signs shall not exceed 60 square
feet unless in a zoning district in which a religious organization is located
providing additional square footage.
         (c)   Signs advertising businesses are permitted.
         (d)   The maximum size of temporary signs is 100 square feet of total
advertising area.
         (e)   Temporary signs of rigid material shall not exceed 24 square
feet in area, or six feet in height, nor shall any such sign be fastened to the
ground.
         (f)   The setback required for temporary signs in agricultural and
residential districts is ten feet from the property line or right-of-way; in
business and industrial districts, two feet from the property line.
         (g)   No more than two temporary signs are allowed per parcel.
         (h)   A temporary sign permit is required.
         (i)   No temporary or permanent sign shall be tacked, or otherwise
attached to trees, fences, utility poles, or other such structures or supports,
unless expressly permitted by this section or other law.
         (j)   Temporary signs may remain in place for a period not exceeding
30 days.
      (14)   Traffic signs.
         (a)   No sign may be erected that, by reason of position, shape,
movement, color or any other characteristic, interferes with the proper
functioning of a traffic sign or signal or otherwise constitutes a traffic
hazard; nor shall signs be permitted which would otherwise interfere with
traffic control.
         (b)   No sign will be permitted which by reason of advertising
content, location, shape, or overall impression may be expected to be confused
with, obscure or interfere with any official traffic sign or device or
otherwise serve as a traffic hazard.
         (c)   Private traffic circulation signs and traffic warning signs in
alleys, parking lots, or in other hazardous situations may be allowed on
private property, provided that such signs do not exceed three square feet and
are used exclusively for traffic control purposes.
   (G)   Permit required.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this article, no sign shall be
erected, constructed, altered, rebuilt, reconstructed, structurally altered,
enlarged, or relocated until a sign permit for the sign has been issued by the
city.
      (2)   The following information for a sign permit shall be supplied by an
applicant if requested by the city:
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of person making
application;
         (b)   A site plan drawn to scale showing the location of the lot
lines, building structures, parking areas, existing and proposed signs and any
other physical feature;
         (c)   Plans, location, specifications, materials, method of
construction and attachment to the buildings or placement method in the ground;
         (d)   Written consent of the owner or lessee of any site on which the
sign is to be erected;
          (e)   Any electrical permit required and issued for the sign;
         (f)   Such other information as the city shall require to show full
compliance with this chapter and all other laws and ordinances of the city.
Information may include such items as color and material samples;
         (g)   Receipt of sign permit fee.
   (H)   Signs allowed without a permit. No sign permit will be required under
this section for the following signs:
      (1)   Real estate signs as set forth herein.
      (2)   Flags, badges, or insignia of any government or government agency,
or of any civic, religious, fraternal, or professional organization. Commercial
and industrial establishments may display on a single flag or on a single
awning or on a single canopy, the official corporate seal or insignia as
identification of the individual establishment. Advertising or promotion of
specific products or services is prohibited unless approved in conjunction with
an administrative or conditional use permit as provided by this chapter.
      (3)   Temporary signs for non-commercial announcements for civic groups
and for political campaigns. However, the sign must contain the name of the
person responsible for such sign, and that person shall be responsible for its
removal, and these signs are not permitted on the public right-of-way. Said
signs shall also comply with the Fair Campaign Practices Act pursuant to M.S. §
211B.045. The city shall have the right to remove and destroy signs not
conforming with this division.
      (4)   Warning signs that do not exceed five square feet in area.
      (5)   Street, warning, directional and other official non-commercial
signs erected by a government agency.
      (6)   Railroad signs.
      (7)   Public notices defined as notices placed or authorized by the city
which are located on private property with the permission of the landowner, or
on public property or right-of-way.
      (8)   Address letters and numerals required by and in conformance with
the city code. Included are related signs, not to exceed two square feet,
displayed strictly for the convenience of the public such as identification
signs for rest rooms, waste receptacles, door bells, mailboxes, reserved
parking spaces, loading zones, or primary building entrances.
      (9)   Nameplate signs two square feet per building and does not include
multitenant names.
      (10)   Rummage (garage) sale signs shall be removed within two days after
the end of the sale and shall not exceed four square feet. Rummage sale signs
shall not be located in any public-right-of way. The city shall have the right
to remove and destroy signs not conforming to this division.
   (I)   Enforcement. All signs shall be subject to inspection by the Zoning
Administrator or authorized designee who is hereby authorized to enter upon any
property or premises to ascertain whether these regulations are being met. Such
entrance shall be made during normal business hours, unless a clear and present
emergency exists. The Zoning Administrator may order, in writing, the removal
of any sign that is not maintained in accordance with the standards or
maintenance requirements of this section. Continued violations of this section
shall be administered and prosecuted in accordance with the city code.
   (J)   Exception. The regulations contained in this section do not apply to
signs attached by adhesive or otherwise attached directly to or visible through
windows and glass portions of doors.
   (K)   Regulations by zoning districts.
      (1)   Required signs. In all zoning districts one nameplate sign shall be
required per building, except accessory structures and residential buildings
which shall be required only to display the street address or property number.
      (2)   Signs by sign permit. Where a use is permitted in a zoning district
by a sign permit, the sign for which use shall require a sign permit unless the
sign is otherwise provided for in this article.
      (3)   Agricultural zoning district. No sign shall be permitted in an “A”
zoning district except the following signs if authorized by a permit or as
provided in this article:
         (a)   Banner, business, nameplate, political, portable, real estate
sales, religious organization, temporary, wall, and warning signs are allowed.
         (b)   Off-premises sponsorship signs are also allowed on city
property. Individual signs shall be mounted on an outfield fence, backstop or
scoreboard. Off-premises sponsorship signs mounted on an outfield fence shall
be a dimension of three feet by six feet in size and shall face the playing
field. Off-premises sponsorship signs mounted on a scoreboard shall be a
maximum area of 32 square feet.
         (c)   The size of signs may be no more than a total of 16 square feet,
with a four foot maximum for any dimension, except as otherwise restricted in
this section. The total square feet of all signs shall not exceed 32 square
feet.
         (d)   No sign shall be constructed as to have more than two surfaces.
         (e)   One of each of the permitted type signs, except temporary signs
where two will be permitted and political signs where one for each candidate
will be permitted per lot frontage and religious organizations where four signs
will be permitted.
         (f)   The height of the top of the sign shall not exceed eight feet
above the average grade.
         (g)   Any sign over two square feet shall be setback at least ten feet
from any lot line or right-of-way.
      (4)   Residential zoning districts. No sign shall be permitted in an “R”
zoning district except the following signs if authorized by a permit or as
provided in this article:
         (a)   Nameplate, political, portable, real estate sales, religious
organization, temporary, wall, and warning signs are allowed.
         (b)   Off-premises sponsorship signs are also allowed on city
property. Individual signs shall be mounted on an outfield fence, backstop or
scoreboard. Off-premises sponsorship signs mounted on an outfield fence shall
be a dimension of three feet by six feet in size and shall face the playing
field. Off-premises sponsorship signs mounted on a scoreboard shall be a
maximum area of 32 square feet.
         (c)   The size of signs may be not more than a total of 16 square feet
with a four foot maximum for any dimension except as otherwise restricted in
this section. The total square feet of all signs shall not exceed 32 square
feet per lot.
         (d)   No sign shall be so constructed as to have more than two
surfaces.
         (e)   The number of each type of sign allowed per lot frontage is one
of each of the permitted type signs, except temporary signs where two will be
permitted and political signs where one for each candidate will be permitted
and religious organizations where four will be permitted.
         (f)   The height of the top of the sign shall not exceed five feet
above the average grade.
         (g)   All signs shall be setback at least ten feet from any lot line
or right-of-way.
      (5)   Business zoning districts. No sign shall be permitted in a “B-1" or
“B-2" zoning district except the following signs if authorized by a permit or
as provided in this article:
         (a)   The types of signs allowed are: banner, business, illuminated,
nameplate, political, portable, real estate sales, religious organization,
temporary, wall, and warning. All applications for a sign permit shall be
reviewed by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Off-premises sponsorship signs are also allowed on city
property. Individual signs shall be mounted on an outfield fence, backstop or
scoreboard. Off-premises sponsorship signs mounted on an outfield fence shall
be a dimension of three feet by six feet in size and shall face the playing
field. Off-premises sponsorship signs mounted on a scoreboard shall be a
maximum area of 32 square feet.
         (c)   Total area of signs shall not exceed 60 square feet.
         (d)   The height of the top of the sign shall not exceed 15 feet above
the average grade.
         (e)   In no case shall any part of a sign be closer than two feet to a
vertical line drawn at the property line.
      (6)   Business zoning districts. No sign shall be permitted in a “B-3"
zoning district except the following signs if authorized by a permit or as
provided in this division:
         (a)   The types of signs allowed are: banner, business, freestanding,
ground, illuminated, nameplate, political, portable, real estate sales,
religious organization, temporary, wall, and warning. All applications for a
sign permit shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Off-premises sponsorship signs are also allowed on city
property. Individual signs shall be mounted on an outfield fence, backstop or
scoreboard. Off-premises sponsorship signs mounted on an outfield fence shall
be a dimension of three feet by six feet in size and shall face the playing
field. Off-premises sponsorship signs mounted on a scoreboard shall be a
maximum area of 32 square feet.
         (c)   Total area of signs shall not exceed 80 square feet.
         (d)   The height of the top of the sign shall not exceed 15 feet above
the average grade.
         (e)   In no case shall any part of a sign be closer than two feet to a
vertical line drawn at the property line.
      (7)   Mixed Use zoning districts. No sign shall be permitted in a "M-1"
zoning district except the following signs if authorized by a permit or as
provided in this section:
         (a)   The type of signs allowed are: Nameplate, political, portable,
real estate sales, religious organization, temporary, wall, and warning signs.
         (b)   Additional signs as are typically associated with a "B-2" zoning
district use may be permitted upon application and approval for a sign permit,
which shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator.
      (8)   Industrial zoning districts.
         (a)   The type of signs allowed are: banner, business, freestanding,
ground, illuminated, nameplate, political, portable, real estate sales,
religious organization, temporary, wall, and warning.
         (b)   Off-premises sponsorship signs are also allowed on city
property. Individual signs shall be mounted on an outfield fence, backstop or
scoreboard. Off-premises sponsorship signs mounted on an outfield fence shall
be a dimension of three feet by six feet in size and shall face the playing
field. Off-premises sponsorship signs mounted on a scoreboard shall be a
maximum area of 32 square feet.
         (c)   Total area of signs shall not exceed 100 square feet.
         (d)   No business sign shall face a residential zoning district.
         (e)   The height of the top of the sign shall not exceed 20 feet above
the average grade.
         (f)   All signs shall be setback at least 100 feet from any
residential or agricultural zoning district.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03; Am. Ord. 1121.06, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord.
1133.10, passed 3-1-10; Ord. 1160.24, passed 3-4-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.021 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the
installation of essential services such as telephone lines, pipelines, electric
transmission lines, substations, and accessories therewith in such a manner
that the health, safety, and welfare of the city will not be adversely
affected. Essential services shall also be installed in recognition of existing
and projected demands for such services.
   (B)   Special permit required. All communication lines, pipelines for
distribution to individual properties within the city, and all underground
electric transmission lines, overhead utility lines, radio receivers and
transmitters, electric transmission lines, and substations less than 33
kilovolts, when installed in any location in the city, shall require a permit
subject to the recommendation of the Planning Commission and approval of the
City Council and shall be processed according to the following:
      (1)   Prior to the installation of any of the essential services defined
above, the owner of such service shall file with the city all maps and other
pertinent information as deemed necessary to review the proposed project.
      (2) The City Council shall document in writing, after receipt of the
Planning Commission’s recommendation, the findings as to the compliance of the
proposed project with the Comprehensive Plan and City Code provisions.
      (3)   In considering applications for the placement of essential
services, as regulated in this section, the Planning Commission and City
Council shall consider the effect of the proposed project upon the
Comprehensive Plan. Additionally, radio transmitters and receivers accessory to
an essential service may be located on existing utility poles or light
standards within public right-of-way provided the radio transmitters and
receivers comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Radio transmitters and receivers located on a utility pole/tower
or light standard shall be at least 15 feet above grade.
         (b)   Radio transmitters and receiver devices shall not exceed 18
inches in length or width, or extend more than 18 inches from the pole.
Antennas may not extend more than 24 inches from the equipment.
         (c)   The applicant shall submit a map prior to issuance of a permit
showing the location of all proposed radio transmitters and receivers. The map
shall be accompanied by a list of all sites referenced by the closest street
address or property identification number. The list of sites must also describe
the type of pole to be used.
         (d)   The applicant shall notify the city of any changes to the
approved list prior to erecting or placing any additional equipment in the
right-of-way.
         (e)   The applicant shall notify the city, at the time of permit
application, of any obstructions that would cause traffic to be rerouted or
stopped.
         (f)   In addition to receiving the necessary permits and approvals,
the city may require the applicant to enter into an encroachment agreement.
      (4)   Upon approval of the City Council, a permit for the installation
and operation of the applicant’s essential services shall be issued. If the
City Council denies the permit, the applicant may appeal said decision under
the rules and procedures set forth in §
154.181.
      (5)   The City Council may deny a permit or attach conditions to the
permit approval to protect the public health, safety and welfare, to prevent
interference with the safety and convenience of ordinary travel over the right-
of-way, or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its users. The City
Council may consider one or more of the following factors:
         (a)   The extent of which right-of-way space where the permit is
sought is available;
         (b)   The competing demands for the particular space in the right-of-
way;
         (c)   The availability of other locations in the right-of-way or in
other rights-of-way for the equipment of the permit application;
         (d)   The applicability of ordinance or other regulations of the
right-of-way that affect location of equipment in the right-of-way.
      (6)   The permittee shall notify the City Council upon completion of the
work specified in the permit.
   (C)   Conditional use permit required. The following require a conditional
use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §
154.178.
      (1)   All transmission pipelines (such as pipelines not required for the
city local distribution network), and overhead and underground transmission and
substation lines in excess of 33 kilovolts.
      (2)   All poles and towers used exclusively for the placement of radio
receivers and transmitters.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03; Am. Ord. 1121.06, passed 8-14-06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.022 LAND RECLAMATION.
   Under this code LAND RECLAMATION is the reclaiming of land by depositing of
material so as to elevate the grade. Land reclamation shall be permitted in all
districts only by conditional use permit. Any lot or parcel upon which 4,000
cubic yards or more of fill is to be deposited shall be land reclamation. The
permit shall include as a condition thereof: a finished grade plan which will
not adversely affect the adjacent land; as conditions thereof shall regulate,
the type of fill permitted; a program for rodent control; a plan for fire
control and general maintenance of the site; controls of vehicular ingress and
egress; and control of material dispersed from wind or the hauling of materials
to or from the site.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.023 MINING.
   The extraction and incidental processing of sand, gravel, or other material
from the site in the amount of 4,000 cubic yards or more and removal thereof
from the site shall be MINING. In “I-2” and “I-3” districts the conduct of
mining shall be permitted only upon issuance of a conditional use permit. Such
permit shall include, as a condition thereof, a plan for a finished grade which
will not adversely affect the surrounding land or the development of the site
on which the mining is being conducted, and the route of trucks moving to and
from the site.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.024 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to establish
predictable and balanced regulations for the establishment of commercial and
non-commercial WECS in the locations and circumstances under which the use may
be established without detriment to the public health, safety, and welfare of
neighboring property owners or occupants.
   (B)   General standards. The following shall apply to all WECS:
      (1)   No more than one WECS shall be permitted per lot.
      (2)   The height of WECS shall be determined by calculating the height
from the base of the tower at grade to the highest possible extension of the
blades.
      (3)   The setback shall not exceed the following distances:
         (a)   From the nearest dwelling, school, business or other habitable
structure: 300 feet or the height of the WECS, whichever is greater;
         (b)   From the nearest public right-of-way: 300 feet or the height of
the WECS, whichever is greater;
         (c)   From the nearest property line: 300 feet or the height of the
WECS, whichever is greater;
         (d)   From recreational fields: 300 feet or the height of the WECS,
whichever is greater;
         (e)   No portion of the WECS, including the full arc area created by
any blades used in the system, shall extend over any recreational field,
including the full arc area created by any blades used in the system.
      (4)   Blade arcs created by the WECS shall have a minimum of 30 feet of
clearance over any accessory structure or tree within the full arc area created
by any blades used in the system.
      (5)   The WECS shall be equipped with both a manual and an automatic
braking device capable of stopping the WECS operation in high winds.
      (6)   The WECS, including the blades, shall be grounded and shielded to
protect against natural lightning strikes in conformance with the National
Electrical Code.
      (7)   The WECS shall not include a tower-climbing apparatus within 12
feet of the ground.
      (8)   The WECS shall display a sign posted at the base of the tower, not
to exceed two square feet in area. The sign shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   A warning of high voltage;
         (b)   The manufacturer’s name;
         (c)   An emergency telephone number;
         (d)   The emergency shutdown procedures.
      (9)   Additional signs may be required on the basis of individual
applications as safety needs dictate.
      (10)   No WECS shall have affixed or attached lights, reflectors,
flashers or any other illumination, except for those devices required by the
Federal Aviation Administration.
      (11)   The WECS shall be filtered, shielded, or otherwise designed and
constructed so as not to cause electrical, radio frequency, television, and
other communication signal interference.
      (12)   The WECS shall be constructed in a monopole design of tubular
steel and shall be self-supporting without the use of guy wires or other
similar features. Towers under 200 feet in height shall be painted a non-
contrasting color consistent with the surrounding area such as pale gray or
white or have a galvanized finish to reduce visual impact. Towers over 200 feet
shall follow the above requirements unless otherwise directed by the Federal
Aviation Administration.
      (13)   All obsolete and unused towers and equipment shall be removed
within 12 months of cessation of operation at the site, unless an exemption is
granted by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Temporary meteorological equipment. Temporary meteorological equipment
located upon a temporary mobile tower used on an interim basis to gather wind
and meteorological data to determine feasibility of the WECS shall require the
processing of an administrative permit and shall comply with the following
standards:
      (1)   The tower shall be placed on property for no longer than 18 months
from the date of administrative permit issuance. Any abandoned or obsolete
temporary mobile tower shall be removed within 30 days from the cessation of
operation at the site.
      (2)   The tower shall be temporary by nature and shall not have permanent
foundations. Guy wires may be used as long as the connections to the ground are
temporary and the wires are designed to support the wind and ice load of the
tower.
      (3)   The tower shall meet the minimum wind and ice load design required
by the Uniform Building Code.
      (4)   The tower and guy wires shall be protected against unauthorized
climbing.
   (D)   Additional submittal requirements. In addition to the information
required elsewhere in this code, development applications for WECS and
temporary towers for meteorological equipment shall include the following
supplemental information:
      (1)   A letter or copy of the review response from the Federal Aviation
Administration concerning the development application and their requirements
for warning device, height restrictions, and the like.
      (2)   A certified survey for the property verifying the location,
dimensions, types and uses of existing structures, proposed accessory
structures, above-ground utility lines, property lines, height of all
significant trees, drainage and utility easements, public rights-of-way and the
proposed location for the WECS.
      (3)   The technical specifications of the WECS including, but not limited
to, the type, height, blade length, operating parameters, the anticipated sound
level at the property line, and lightning protection.
      (4)   Clearance distances between the farthest extension of the WECS
blades to the property lines.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.025 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
    (A)   Residential uses.
      (1)   No accessory building or structure in “R” districts shall be
constructed nor any use conducted on any lot prior to the time of construction
of the principal building to which it is accessory except as provided herein.
      (2)   No accessory building, structure, or use shall be allowed within a
front yard in an “R” district, except that an accessory use, building, or
structure may be allowed within a front yard which qualifies as an equivalent
rear or side yard as defined by this chapter, provided it meets the minimum
front yard setback specified for the principal building on the lot.
      (3)   Within an “R” district, an attached garage not exceeding 1,000
square feet shall be considered an integral part of the principal building and
such garages are exempt from the provisions of this section. Attached private
garages in excess of 1,000 square feet are not permitted, except by conditional
use permit.
      (4)   Within an “R” district, a conditional use permit is required for
construction of more than one detached accessory building in excess of 120
square feet in gross floor area.
      (5)   In addition to the other accessory buildings, one building not to
exceed 120 square feet in gross floor area shall be permitted.
      (6)   No building permit shall be required for buildings containing 200
square feet in gross floor area or less, however, such buildings shall comply
with all applicable regulations set forth in this chapter.
      (7)   An accessory building shall be considered for purposes of applying
this chapter to be an integral part of the principal building unless it is six
feet or more from the principal building.
      (8)   No detached accessory building shall be less than 60 feet from the
public right-of-way bordering the designated front yard(s) unless it conforms
to the side yard requirements of the principal building. Those accessory
buildings located 60 feet or more to the rear of a right-of-way line shall have
a side yard of three feet or more and a rear yard of three feet or more.
   (B)   Garages with alley access. Private garages having direct access onto
an alley shall be setback 20 feet from the alley lot line. In cases where
reasonable difficulty is encountered in meeting this requirement, the Zoning
Administrator may approve deviations to the setback standard.
   (C)   Size.
      (1)   In “R” districts, no accessory building, including a detached
private garage for a single family dwelling, shall equal more than 30 percent
of the area of the rear yard or 1,000 square feet in gross floor area,
whichever is less, except that in “R” districts, an accessory building may
exceed 1,000 square feet in gross floor area upon issuance of a conditional use
permit. Furthermore, the gross floor area of an accessory building shall not
exceed the gross floor area of the principal building, except by conditional
use permit.
      (2)   Except in cases of single family detached dwellings, accessory
buildings for all other uses shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor area of
the principal buildings. In those cases where the standards are exceeded, a
conditional use permit shall be required.
      (3)   The maximum height of accessory buildings and structures shall be
prescribed in the applicable district, provided that the height of an accessory
building or structure shall not exceed the height of the principal structure,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Conditional use permits. Application for a conditional use permit
under this section shall be regulated by §
154.178. Such a conditional use permit for an accessory structure may be
granted provided that:
      (1)   There is a demonstrated need and potential for continued use for
the structure for the purpose stated.
      (2)   In the case of residential uses, no commercial or home occupation
activities are conducted on the property.
      (3)   The accessory building shall be maintained in a manner that is
compatible with the adjacent residential uses and does not present a hazard to
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (E)   Setbacks. Accessory buildings shall be setback from adjoining lots as
prescribed in the applicable district and shall not be located within a
drainage or utility easement.
   (F)   Time of construction. No accessory building or structure shall be
constructed on any lot prior to the time of construction of the principal
building to which it is accessory.
   (G)   Building materials.
      (1)   All accessory buildings in excess of 120 square feet shall be
constructed with a design consistent with the general character of the
principal structure on the lot.
      (2)   Accessory buildings constructed primarily of canvas, plastic
fabric, or other similar non- permanent building materials shall be prohibited.
   (H)   Trash receptacles. Except as otherwise provided, all buildings having
exterior trash receptacles shall provide an enclosed area in conformance with
the following:
      (1)   Exterior wall treatment shall be similar and/or complement the
principal building.
      (2)   The enclosed trash receptacle area shall be located in the rear or
side yard and shall comply with the setback requirements of §
154.059.
      (3)   The trash enclosure shall be in an accessible location for
servicing motor vehicles and shall not conflict with site circulation.
      (4)   The trash receptacles shall be fully screened from view of adjacent
properties and the public right-of-way.
      (5)   The design and construction of the trash enclosure shall be subject
to the approval of the Building Official.
      (6)   Recycling space shall be provided as required by the Minnesota
State Building Code.
   (I)   Drive through businesses.
      (1)   The facility shall be located on a site having direct access to a
minor arterial street, collector or service road.
      (2)   All portions of the business with drive through facilities
established after January 1, 2003, including but not limited to, the building
in which they are located, service windows and stacking spaces, shall be
located across an arterial or collector street from residentially zoned or
guided property, or shall be setback at least 300 feet from residentially zoned
or guided property.
      (3)   The facility’s public audio system shall not be heard from any
adjacent residentially zoned or guided property.
      (4)   Businesses with one drive through lane shall provide stacking space
for at least six motor vehicles, as measured from and including the last pick
up station, window, or the like. Stacking space shall not interfere with
parking spaces or traffic circulation.
      (5)   The applicant shall demonstrate that such use will not
significantly lower the existing level of service on streets and intersections.
      (6)   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold or served.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03; Am. Ord., passed --) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.026 GENERAL BUILDING AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish general
development performance standards. These standards are intended and designed to
assure compatibility of uses, to prevent urban blight, deterioration and decay,
and to enhance the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the
community.
   (B)   Dwelling unit restriction.
      (1)   No model home, garage, tent, accessory building, or recreational
camping vehicle shall at any time be used as living quarters, temporary or
permanent, except as may be approved in emergency cases by the Zoning
Administrator as an administrative permit.
      (2)   Tents, play houses or similar structures may be used for play or
recreational purposes.
      (3)   Basements and cellars may be used as living quarters or rooms as a
portion of the principal residential dwelling.
      (4)   Energy conservation designs in housing, including earth sheltered
residential dwellings, are not prohibited by this section, provided that a
conditional use permit is approved by the City Council and the structure
complies with standards imposed by the state and the Minnesota State Building
Code.
   (C)   Platted and unplatted property.
      (1)   Any person desiring to improve property shall submit to the
Building Official a survey of said premises and information on the location and
dimension of existing and proposed buildings, location of easements within the
property, encroachments, and any other information which may be necessary to
evaluate conformance with city ordinances.
      (2)   All buildings shall be so placed so that they will not obstruct
future streets, which may be constructed by the city and be in conformity with
existing streets, adopted plans, and according to the system and standards
employed by the city.
      (3)   No more than one principal building shall be on a single family
residential lot. Except by conditional use permit, no more than one principal
building shall be located on a multiple family residential lot or non-
residential lot.
      (4)   When a development is proposed which is to be located on two or
more lots, and such lots are required to meet the minimum district area and
frontage requirement and/or required to accommodate the use, the lots shall be
combined in accordance with
Chapter 153, prior to issuing of a building permit.
      (5)   Except as may be allowed pursuant to
Chapter 153, when two or more lots are located in the same zoning district, one
or more of which lack adequate area or dimensions to qualify for use under
current ordinance requirements and are contiguous and held in one ownership,
they shall be combined for use in order to meet the lot requirements by
subdividing the property in accordance with
Chapter 153.
      (6)   Outlots are deemed unbuildable and no building permit shall be
issued for such properties.
      (7)   Except as otherwise allowed by property subdivision, each lot shall
have frontage and access directly onto an abutting, improved and city-accepted
public street. An existing lot of record, vacant or for redevelopment, that
does not have frontage and access directly onto an abutting, improved city
accepted public street shall require approval of a conditional use permit prior
to issuance of any building permits.
   (D)   Grading and drainage. No land shall be developed and no use shall be
permitted in the city that results in water runoff causing flooding, erosion,
or deposit of sediment on adjacent properties which is inconsistent with the
grading and erosion control plan of the city.
   (E)   Apartments in the B-1 Central Business District.
      (1)   No apartment or any other multiple-family or single-family dwelling
shall be permitted on the ground floor or basement level of any building
located in the B-1 District.
      (2)   Apartments may be permitted on the second story, or higher, of a
building located in the B-1 District through a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03; Am. Ord. 212, passed 5-15-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.027 NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any structure or use lawfully existing upon the effective date of this
chapter may be continued; provided, however, that no such non-conforming use be
enlarged or increased, nor shall any such non-conforming use be expanded to
occupy a greater area of land than that occupied by such use at the time of the
adoption of this chapter, nor shall any such non-conforming use be moved to any
other part of land upon which the same was conducted at the time of adoption of
this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this code shall prevent the city from declaring a non-
conforming use to be a nuisance if said use poses a danger and/or threat to the
health, safety, and general welfare of the community.
      (1)   The termination/correction time schedule shall be based upon, but
not limited to factors such as the initial investment and the degree of threat
or danger being posed.
      (2)   The acceptability of the time schedule shall be determined by the
City Council with right of appeal.
      (3)   In no case shall a time schedule exceed two years.
   (C)   When any lawful non-conforming use of any structure or land in any
district has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be
changed to any non-conforming use.
   (D)   A lawful non-conforming use of a structure or parcel of land may be
changed to lessen the non- conformity of use. Once a non-conforming structure
or parcel of land has been changed, it shall not thereafter be so altered to
increase the non-conformity.
   (E)   Whenever a building or structure in which a non-conforming use is
located shall have been damaged by fire, flood, explosion, earthquake, war, or
riot, it may be reconstructed and used as before if it be reconstructed within
12 months after such calamity, unless the damage to the building or structure
is 50% or more of its fair market value, in which case the reconstruction shall
be for a use in accordance with the provisions of this code.
   (F)   Whenever a lawful non-conforming use of any building, structure, or
land is discontinued for a period of six months, any future use of said
building, structure, or land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
code.
   (G)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
related to a lawful non- conforming use is permitted, including necessary non-
structural repairs and incidental alterations, which do not extend or intensify
the non-conforming use.
   (H)   A lawful non-conforming use may be changed only to a use of the same
or more restrictive classification.
   (I)   Alterations may be made to a structure or building containing lawful
non-conforming residential units when they will improve the livability thereof,
provided they will not increase the number of dwelling units.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.028 OPERATION STANDARDS.
   In I-2 or I-3 districts, the operation standards of this section may be
modified by obtaining a conditional use permit pursuant to §
154.178.
   (A)   Noise. Any use established shall be so operated that no noise
resulting from the use is noticeable beyond the boundaries of the lot line of
the site on which such use is located. This standard shall not apply to
incidental traffic, parking, loading, construction, or maintenance operations.
   (B)   Smoke and particulate matters. Any use established, enlarged, or
remodeled after the effective date of this code shall be so operated as to
control the emission of smoke or particulate matter to such degree that it is
not detrimental or dangerous to the public health, safety, comfort, or general
welfare. For the purpose of determining when the degree of smoke is
unsatisfactory, the Ringlemann Chart published and used by the United States
Bureau of Mines shall be employed. The emission of smoke shall not be of a
density greater than No. 2 in the Ringlemann Chart.
   (C)   Toxic or noxious matter. Any use established shall be so operated as
not to discharge across the boundaries of the lot or through percolation into
the subsoil beyond the boundaries of the lot wherein such use is located any
toxic or noxious matter in such concentration as to be readily detectable or to
endanger the public health, safety, comfort, or welfare, or cause injury or
damage to property or business.
   (D)   Odors. Any use established, enlarged, or remodeled shall be so
operated as to prevent the emission of odorous matter in such qualities as to
be readily detectable at any point beyond the lot line of the site in which
such use is located.
   (E)   Vibration. Any use creating periodic earthshaking vibrations, such as
may be created from a drop forge, shall be prohibited if such vibrations are
perceptible beyond the lot line of the site on which the use is located.
   (F)   Glare or heat. Any use requiring an operation producing an intense
heat or light transmission shall be performed with the necessary shielding to
prevent the heat or light from being detectable at the lot line of the site on
which the use is located.
   (G)   Explosives. Any use requiring the storage, utilization, or
manufacturing of products which would decompose by detonation shall be located
not less than 400 feet from the “R” district line.
   (H)   Waste material. Waste material shall not be washed into the public
storm sewer system or the sanitary sewer system without a permit to do so first
having been received from the city. If the permit is not granted, a method of
disposal shall be devised which will not require continuous land acquisition
for permanent operation and will not cause a detrimental effect to the adjacent
land. Should the waste be of a solid form rather than a fluid, the storage area
shall be so located behind fences as to be removed from public view.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.029 PUBLIC PROPERTY/RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   The erection and/or placement of any structure in the public right-of-way or
on city property by any person, or group other than the City of Benson, County
of Swift, or State of Minnesota, or franchised utility shall require the
processing of a conditional use permit in accordance with §
154.178. Exceptions to this provision include newsstands, essential services,
radio receivers and transmitters as an accessory use to essential services, and
personal wireless communication antennas located on existing lattice electrical
transmission towers, provided that the use and equipment comply with the
applicable requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.030 RELOCATION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be the stated policy of the city to maintain a harmonious and
high standard of development in all the designated districts and to protect the
districts from deleterious effects through insuring that a building or
structure relocated from a permanent foundation located within or outside of
the city to another location within the city shall meet specified requirements.
Such relocations of buildings or structures as stated above must conform to all
regulations of the Minnesota State Building Code and shall be permitted in the
zoning district where all necessary specifications as to lot sizes, setbacks,
type of use, height regulations, and all other conditions as laid down in this
code are met.
   (B)   In addition, such relocations shall require a conditional use permit
from the City Council wherein the following provisions shall be met:
      (1)   Application in the form of a building permit shall be made on forms
provided by the City Clerk.
      (2)   A fee as may be adopted from time to time as adopted by City
Council resolution or ordinance plus any necessary public costs will be made to
the Treasurer, and a receipt for the same shall be attached to the application
and submitted to the Clerk with proof of the mover’s financial responsibility.
      (3)   The application shall be referred to the City Council, which shall
set a time and place for a public hearing giving at least ten days’ public
notice of such hearing.
      (4)   At least ten days before such hearing, the City Council shall mail
a notice of said hearing to property owners within 300 feet of the premises on
which the building is to be relocated. Failure of the City Council to mail the
notice or failure of the titleholder to receive the notice shall not invalidate
the proceedings.
      (5)   The Building Official shall make a report to the City Council
before or at the public hearing. The City Council may refer the petition to the
Planning Commission for its recommendation.
      (6)   The City Council shall make a finding and declare whether or not
the structure to be moved is architecturally and otherwise compatible.
      (7)   An administrative permit shall also be required in accordance with
the provisions of §
154.176.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.031 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a formal site
plan review procedure and provide regulations pertaining to the enforcement of
site design standards consistent with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Sketch plan. Prior to the formulation of a site plan, applicants may
present a sketch plan to the Zoning Administrator prior to filing for a formal
application. The plan shall be conceptual but shall be drawn to scale and may
include the following:
      (1)   The proposed site with reference to existing development on
adjacent properties at least to within 200 feet;
      (2)   General location of the proposed structures;
      (3)   Tentative street arrangement, both public and private;
      (4)   Amenities to be provided such as recreational areas, open spaces,
walkways, and the like;
      (5)   General location of parking areas;
      (6)   Proposed public sanitary sewer, water and storm drainage;
      (7)   A statement showing the proposed density of the project with the
method of calculating said density also shown.
   (C)   Evaluation criteria. The Planning Commission and City Council shall
evaluate the effects of the proposed site plans. This review shall be based
upon, but not limited to, compliance with the City Comprehensive Plan and
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Information requirement. The information required for site plan
applications generally consists of the following items, and such items shall be
submitted when requested and as specified by the Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Site plan.
         (a)   Name and address of developer/owner.
         (b)   Name and address of architect/designer.
         (c)   Date of plan preparation.
         (d)   Dates and description of all revisions.
         (e)   Name of project or development.
         (f)   Scale of plan (engineering scale only, at one inch equals 50
feet or less).
         (g)   North point indication.
         (h)   Lot dimension and area.
         (i)   Required and proposed setbacks.
         (j)   Location, setback and dimension of all buildings on the lot
including both existing and proposed structures.
         (k)   Contours, streets, utilities, and structures located within 100
feet of the exterior boundaries of the property in question.
         (l)   Location, number, and dimensions of existing and proposed
parking spaces.
         (m)   Location, number, and dimensions of proposed loading spaces.
         (n)   Curb cuts, driveways.
         (o)   Vehicle circulation.
         (p)   Sidewalks, walkways.
         (q)   Location and type of all proposed lighting.
         (r)   Location of recreational and service areas.
         (s)   Location of rooftop equipment and proposed screening.
         (t)   Provisions for storage and disposal of waste, garbage, and
recyclables.
         (u)   Location, sizing, and type of water and sewer system mains and
proposed service connections.
      (2)   Grading/storm water drainage plan.
         (a)   Existing contours at two foot intervals.
         (b)   Proposed grade elevations, two foot maximum intervals.
         (c)   Drainage plan including configuration of drainage area and
calculations.
         (d)   Storm sewer, catch basins, invert elevations, type of castings,
and type of materials.
         (e)   Spot elevations.
         (f)   Proposed driveway grades.
         (g)   Surface water ponding and treatment areas.
         (h)   Erosion control measures.
      (3)   Landscape plan.
         (a)   Planting schedule containing:
            1.   Symbols;
            2.   Quantities;
            3.   Common names;
            4.   Botanical names;
            5.   Size of plant material;
            6.   Root specification (bare root, balled and burlapped, potted,
and the like);
            7.   Special planting instructions.
         (b)   Tree preservation plan and reforestation plan.
         (c)   Notes indicating how disturbed soil areas will be restored
through the use of sodding, seeding, or other techniques.
         (d)   Other existing or proposed conditions that could be expected to
affect landscaping.
      (4)   Other plans and information.
         (a)   Legal description of property under consideration.
         (b)   Proof of ownership of the land for which a site plan approval
has been requested.
         (c)   Architectural elevations of all principal and accessory
buildings (type, color, and materials used in all external surfaces).
         (d)   Floor plan and room plan.
          (e)   Fire protection plan.
         (f)   Type, location and size (area and height) of all signs to be
erected upon the property in question.
         (g)   Certification that all property taxes, special assessments,
interest, or city utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the
application relates have been paid.
         (h)   Certified survey by a registered land surveyor.
         (i)   Any other information relevant to the site plan requested by the
city.
    (E)   Lapse of approval.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified by the City Council, the site plan
approval shall become null and void one year after the date of approval, unless
the property owner or applicant has substantially started the construction of
any building, structure, addition or alteration, or use requested as part of
the approved plan. The property owner or applicant shall have the right to
submit an application for time extension in accordance with this section.
      (2)   An application to extend the approval of a site plan for up to an
additional one year shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator not less
than 30 days before the expiration of said approval. Such application shall
state the facts of the request, showing a good faith attempt to utilize the
site plan approval, and it shall state the additional time being requested to
begin the proposed construction. The request shall be heard and decided by the
Planning Commission prior to the lapse of approval of the original request.
      (3)   In making its determination on whether an applicant has made a good
faith attempt to utilize the site plan approval, the City Council shall
consider such factors as type, design, and size of the proposed construction,
any applicable restrictions on financing, or special and/or unique
circumstances beyond the control of the applicant which have caused the delay.
   (F)   Site improvement performance agreement and financial guarantee.
Following the approval of the site plan required by this chapter and before
issuance of a building permit, the applicant, as may be applicable, shall
guarantee to the city the completion of all private exterior amenities as shown
on the approved site plan and as required by the site plan approval. This
guarantee shall be made by means of a site improvement performance agreement
and a financial guarantee as provided below:
      (1)   The applicant shall execute the site improvement performance
agreement in forms provided by the city. The agreement shall be approved as to
form and content by the City Attorney and shall define the required work and
reflect the terms of this section as to the required guarantee for the
performance of the work by the applicant.
      (2)   The required work includes, but is not limited to, private exterior
amenities such as landscaping, private driveways, parking areas, recreational
field structures or buildings, drainage systems, water quality ponds, wetland
mitigation, wetland buffers, erosion control, curbing, fences and screening,
and other similar facilities. The required work shall also include all aspects
of a tree preservation plan and reforestation plan, if applicable.
      (3)   A financial guarantee shall be submitted with the executed site
performance agreement as provided herein:
         (a)   Financial guarantees acceptable to the city include cash escrow;
an irrevocable letter of credit; or other financial instruments which provide
equivalent assurance to the city and which are approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
         (b)   The term of the financial guarantee shall be for the life of the
site improvement performance agreement, and it shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to ensure that a submitted financial guarantee shall continue in
full force and effect until the Zoning Administrator shall have approved and
accepted all of the work undertaken to be done and shall thereby have released
the guarantee or reduced the amount of the guarantee as provided in this
section.
         (c)   The amount of the financial guarantee shall be established by
the Zoning Administrator based upon an itemized estimate of the cost of all
required work. A cash deposit or irrevocable letter of credit shall be in the
amount of 100% of the approved estimated cost. The amount of any other approved
financial instrument shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         (d)   The applicant shall submit a separate financial guarantee for
that portion of the required work consisting solely of landscaping improvements
with another financial guarantee for all other exterior amenities and
improvements which comprise the work.
      (4)   The time allowed for completion of the required improvements shall
be set out in the site improvement performance agreement. The agreement and the
financial guarantee shall provide for forfeiture to the city to cure the defect
or reimburse the city the cost of enforcement measures. As various portions of
such required work are completed by the applicant and approved by the city, the
Zoning Administrator may release such portion of the financial guarantee as is
attributable to such completed work. Landscaping improvements shall not be
deemed complete until the city has verified survivability of all required
plantings through one winter season, which is defined for the purpose of this
section as the period October 31 through April 30.
      (5)   The applicant shall notify the city in writing when all or a
portion of the required improvements have been completed with the approved plan
and may be inspected. Upon receipt of such notice, the Zoning Administrator
shall be responsible for the inspection and the improvements to determine the
useful life of all work performed meets the average standards for the
particular industry, profession, or material use in the performance of the
work. Any required work failing to meet such standards shall not be deemed to
be complete and the applicant shall be notified in writing as to required
corrections. Upon determination that the work has been completed, including the
winter season survivability of landscape improvements, a notice of the date of
actual completion shall be given to the applicant and appropriate action, to
release and reduce the amount of the financial guarantee shall be taken by the
Zoning Administrator.
   (G)   Minnesota State Building Code. In addition to the site plan review
process established under this section, review and approval of site
improvements pursuant to the requirements of the city adopted building and fire
codes shall also be required. The site plan approval process does not imply
compliance with the requirements of these building and fire codes.
   (H)   Plan agreements. All site and construction plans officially submitted
to the city shall be treated as a formal agreement between the building
contractor and the city. Once approved, no changes, modifications or
altercations shall be made to any plan detail, standard, or specification
without prior submission of a plan modification request to the Zoning
Administrator for review and approval.
   (I)   Enforcement. The Zoning Administrator shall have authority to order
the stopping of any and all site improvement activities, when and where a
violation of the provisions of this section has been officially documented by
the Building Official. See also
Chapter 153 and §
154.040.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.032 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations and
procedures for the construction and maintenance of swimming pools within the
city with the goal of protecting the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of the city.
   (B)   Definitions.
      SWIMMING POOL. Any structure intended for swimming or recreational
bathing that contains water over 24 inches deep. This includes in-ground,
above-ground, and on-ground swimming pools, hot tubs, portable and non-portable
spas, and fixed in wading pools.
   (C)   Construction and maintenance.
      (1)   No swimming pool may be constructed beneath overhead utility lines
of any type or above underground utility lines of any type.
      (2)   No swimming pool may be built within ten feet of any side or rear
lot line.
      (3)   Construction of a swimming pool may not be started without having
the same fully enclosed with a fence, which may be temporary and portable, not
less than four feet in height.
      (4)   No swimming pool may be constructed within 20 feet of any on-site
sewer system facility.
      (5)   No swimming pool may be finished without completely enclosing it
with a permanent wall or fence of the non-climbing type so as to be
impenetrable by toddlers, affording not external hand holds or foot holds, and
a minimum of four feet in height. All such enclosures shall be equipped with a
self-locking and self-closing gate. The locking device shall be located within
12 inches of the top of the fence. The opening between the bottom of the fence
or gate and the ground or other surface shall be no more than three inches.
      (6)   No swimming pool may be constructed or altered within the city
without a building permit.
      (7)   No hot tub, portable or non-portable spa, or fixed in wading pool
shall be constructed or maintained which is not enclosed with a fence or wall
as described herein or a latchable cover. The cover shall be construed of a
material which cannot be penetrated by toddlers.
      (8)   No outdoor swimming pool lighting may be maintained which is
permitted to spill or shine upon properties adjacent thereto which are not
under the same ownership.
      (9)   All swimming pools constructed or altered prior to the effective
date of this section shall substantially comply with this section within 60
days from the effective date hereof. Owners of swimming pools constructed prior
to the effective date of this section may make a written request for an
exception. Also, owners of swimming pools may make a written request for an
exception to the fencing and latchable cover requirements set forth herein if
the owner of the swimming pool can provide a safe and reasonable alternative to
these requirements.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.033 OPT-OUT OF M.S. § 462.3593.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, the city opts-out
of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and regulates temporary
family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 1147.16, passed 10-18-16)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 154.040 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Planned Unit Development District is to provide a
comprehensive procedure intended to allow greater flexibility in the
development of residential areas or non-residential areas that would not be
possible under a conventional zoning district. The decision to zone property to
PUD is a public policy decision for the City Council to make in its legislative
capacity.
   (B)   The intent of this section is to:
      (1)   Provide for the establishment of Planned Unit Development (PUD)
zoning districts in appropriate settings and situations, to create or maintain
a development pattern that complies with the city’s Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Allow for the mixing of land uses within a development when such
mixing of land uses could not otherwise be accomplished under other districts;
      (3)   Provide for variations to the strict application of the land use
regulations in this chapter in order to improve site design and operation,
while at the same time incorporating design elements (such as construction
materials, landscaping, lighting, and the like) that exceed the city’s
standards to offset the effect of any variations;
      (4)   Promote a more creative and efficient approach to land use within
the city, while at the same time protecting and promoting the health, safety,
comfort, aesthetics, economic viability, and general welfare of the city;
      (5)   Preserve and enhance natural features and open spaces;
      (6)   Maintain or improve the efficiency of public streets and utilities;
      (7)   Ensure the establishment of appropriate transitions between
differing land uses.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.041 ALLOWED USES.
   Uses within the PUD may include only those uses generally considered
associated with the general use category shown for the area on the official
Comprehensive Plan. However, in some unique situations, the PUD may allow the
approval of use or uses that are not listed as either permitted or conditional
uses in any underlying zoning district. The specific allowed uses and
performance standards for each PUD shall be delineated in an ordinance
approving the PUD, a PUD agreement executed between the city and developer, and
approved PUD development plan. The PUD development plan shall identify all the
proposed land uses and those uses shall become permitted uses when the PUD
agreement and final development plan is approved. Any change in list of uses
presented in the development plan will be considered an amendment to the PUD
and will follow the procedures specified in this article for revisions or
changes.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.042 REQUIRED STANDARDS.
   The city shall consider the proposed PUD from the point of view of all
standards and purposes of the comprehensive land use plan to achieve a maximum
coordination between the proposed development and the surrounding uses, the
conservation of woodlands and wetlands, the protection of health, safety and
welfare of the community and residents of the PUD. To these ends, the City
Council shall consider the location of the buildings, compatibility, parking
areas and other features with respect to the topography of the area and
existing natural features such as streams and large trees; the efficiency,
adequacy and safety of the proposed layout of internal streets and driveways;
the adequacy and location of green areas; the adequacy, location and screening
of parking areas; and such other matters as the City Council may find to have a
material beating upon the stated standards and objectives of the comprehensive
land use plan.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.043 COORDINATION WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   Subdivision review under the subdivision regulations shall be carried out
simultaneously with the review of the PUD. The plans required under this
article shall be submitted in a form that will satisfy the requirements of
Chapter 153 for the preliminary and final plat.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.044 REVISIONS AND/OR CHANGES.
   (A)   Minor changes such as the location, placement and height of structures
may be authorized by the staff development review committee if required by
engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the final plan was
approved and filed with the City Council.
   (B)   Changes in uses, significant changes in location, size, or height of
structures, any rearrangement of lots, blocks and building tracts, changes in
provision of common open spaces and all other changes to the approved final
development plan may be made only after a public hearing conducted by the City
Council. Upon determination by the staff development review committee that a
major change has been proposed, the applicant shall apply for an amended PUD.
The application to amend the PUD shall be treated as a new zoning application.
Upon acceptance of a complete application, the Planning Commission shall hold a
hearing and make a recommendation to the City Council. Any changes shall be
recorded as amendments to the recorded copy of the final development plan.
   (C)   All of the provisions of the article applicable to the original
district within which the planned unit development district is established
shall apply to the amended PUD district except as otherwise provided in
approval of the PUD agreement and final development plan. The effective date of
the PUD shall be after:
      (1)   Approval of the PUD zoning amendment, and
      (2)   Publication of the ordinance approving the PUD.
   (D)   If substantial development has not occurred within one year after
approval of the PUD zoning district, the City Council may instruct the Planning
Commission to initiate rezoning to the original zoning district. It shall not
be necessary for the City Council to find that the rezoning was in error.
   (E)   Within the PUD agreement, the city may authorize the scheduling of
periodic reviews, to occur upon the determination of the City Administrator
that a need for review exists, to ascertain that actual development on the site
meets the conditions of the approved PUD.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.045 PHASING AND GUARANTEE OF PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall compare the actual development
accomplished in the various PUD zones with the approved development schedule.
   (B)   Upon recommendation of the Planning Commission and for good cause
shown by the property owner, the City Council may extend the limits of the
development schedule.
   (C)   The construction and provision of all of the common open space and
public and recreational facilities, which are shown on the final development
plan must proceed at the same rate as the construction of dwelling units, if
any. The staff development review committee shall review all of the building
permits issued for the PUD and examine the construction that has taken place on
the site. If they find that the rate of construction of dwelling units is
greater than the rate at which common open spaces and public and recreational
facilities have been constructed and provided, they shall forward this
information to the City Council for action.
   (D)   A performance bond or letter of credit may be required to guarantee
performance by the developer. The amount of this bond or letter of credit and
the specific elements of the development program that it is intended to
guarantee will be stipulated in the PUD agreement.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.046 CONTROL OF PUD FOLLOWING COMPLETION.
   (A)   After the certificate of occupancy has been issued, the use of the
land and the construction, modification or alteration of any buildings or
structures within the planned development shall be governed by the final
development plan.
   (B)   After the certificate of occupancy has been issued, no changes shall
be made in the approved final development plan except upon application as
provided below.
      (1)   Any minor extensions, alterations or modifications of existing
buildings or structures may be authorized by the staff development review
committee if they are consistent with the purposes and intent of the final
plan.
      (2)   Any building or structure that is totally or substantially
destroyed may be reconstructed only in compliance with the final development
plan unless an amendment to the final development plan is approved.
      (3)   Changes in the use of the common open spaces may be authorized by
an amendment to the final development plan after a public hearing by the
Planning Commission and recommendation to the City Council.
      (4)   Any other changes in the final development plan must be authorized
by an amendment of the final development plan.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.047 PROCEDURE FOR PROCESSING A PUD.
   (A)   Application conference. Before filing of an application for a PUD, the
applicant of the proposed PUD shall arrange for and attend a conference with
the staff development review committee. The primary purpose of the conference
shall be to provide the applicant with an opportunity to gather information and
obtain guidance as to the general suitability of the applicant’s proposal for
the area for which it is proposed and its conformity to the provisions of this
article before incurring substantial expense in the preparation of plans,
surveys and other data.
   (B)   Sketch plan. The sketch plan provides an opportunity for an applicant
to submit an informal plan to the city showing the applicant’s basic intent and
general nature of the development. The sketch plan is optional and is intended
to provide feedback from the Planning Commission before the applicant incurs
substantial cost in the preparation of formal plans. The sketch plan shall be
considered a partial, incomplete application prior to formal submittal of the
complete application and scheduling of hearings.
   (C)   Preliminary development plan. The purpose of a preliminary development
plan is to formally present a planned unit development and preliminary plat
application in a public hearing before the Planning Commission. The plan shall
include the following:
      (1)   A description of proposed land uses for the PUD;
      (2)   Overall maximum PUD density range;
      (3)   General location of major streets and pedestrian ways;
      (4)   General location and extent of public and common and open space;
      (5)   General location of residential and non-residential land uses with
approximate type of intensities;
      (6)   Staging and time schedule of development;
      (7)   Other special criteria for development, which may include, but is
not limited to, preliminary landscape plans and conceptual architectural plans.
   (D)   Schedule.
      (1)   The developer shall meet with the staff development review
committee to discuss the proposed preliminary development plan.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the preliminary development plan
application and preliminary plat, together with all supporting data.
      (3)   Within 30 days after verification by the staff development review
committee that the required plan and supporting data is adequate, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing and report its
findings and make recommendations to the City Council. Notice of the hearing
shall consist of a legal property description, description of request, and be
published in the official newspaper at least ten days prior to the hearing and
written notification of the hearing shall be mailed at least ten days prior
thereto to owners of land within 350 feet of the boundary of the property in
question.
      (5)   The city may request additional information from the applicant
concerning operational factors or retain expert testimony at the expense of the
applicant.
      (6)   The City Council may hold a public hearing after the receipt of the
report and recommendations from the Planning Commission. If the Planning
Commission fails to make a report within 60 days after the receipt of the
application, then the City Council may proceed without the report. The City
Council may approve the preliminary development plan and attach such additional
conditions as it deems reasonable. Approval shall require a majority vote of
the entire City Council.
      (7)   After the preliminary development plan approval by the City
Council, the PUD zoning ordinance map amendment shall be published, with
reference made to the PUD agreement text. The city shall be responsible for
recording the ordinance and PUD agreement with the County Recorder’s office,
with all associated fees and costs to be incurred by the applicant, prior to
issuance of any building permit or within 60 days, whichever is less. The
official PUD ordinance and agreement shall also be filed in the City Clerk’s
office.
   (E)   Applications. Ten copies of the following exhibits, analyses and plans
shall be submitted to the city (preliminary development plan):
      (1)   Preliminary plat and information required by
Chapter 153.
      (2)   General information:
         (a)   The landowner’s name and address and the landowner’s interest in
the subject property.
         (b)   The applicant’s name and address if different from the
landowner.
         (c)   The names and addresses of all professional consultants who have
contributed to the development of the PUD plan being submitted, including
attorney, land planner, engineer and surveyor.
         (d)   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
subject property to effectuate the proposed PUD, including a statement of all
legal, beneficial, tenancy and contractual interests held in or affecting the
subject property and including an up-to-date certified abstract of title or
registered property report and such other evidence as the City Attorney may
require to show the status of title or control of the subject property.
      (3)   Present status:
         (a)   The address and legal description of the property.
         (b)   The existing zoning classification and present use of the
subject property and all lands within 1,000 feet of the property.
         (c)   A map depicting the existing development of the property and all
land within 1,000 feet of such property and indicating the location of existing
streets, property lines, easements, water mains and storm and sanitary sewers,
with invert elevations on and within 100 feet of the property.
         (d)   A written statement generally describing the proposed PUD and
the market which it is intended to serve and its demand showing its
relationship to the city’s Comprehensive Plan and how the proposed PUD is to be
designed, arranged and operated in order to permit the development and use of
neighboring property in accordance with the applicable regulations of the city.
         (e)   Site conditions. Graphic reproductions of the existing site
conditions at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet.
            1.   Contours; minimum two foot intervals.
            2.   Location, type and extent of tree cover.
            3.   Slope analysis.
            4.   Location and extent of water bodies, wetlands, streams, and
floodplains within 300 feet of the property.
            5.   Significant rock outcroppings.
            6.   Existing drainage patterns.
            7.   Vistas and significant views.
            8.   Soil conditions as they affect development. All of the
graphics should be the same scale as the final plan to allow easy cross
reference.
      (4)   Proposed status:
         (a)   Schematic drawing of the proposed development concept including,
but not limited to, the general location of major circulation elements, public
and common open space, residential and other land uses.
         (b)   A statement of the estimated total number of dwelling units
proposed for the PUD and a tabulation of the proposed approximate allocations
of land use expressed in acres and as a percent of the total project area,
which shall include at least the following:
            1.   Area devoted to residential use by building type;
            2.   Area devoted to common open space;
            3.   Area devoted to public open space;
            4.   Approximate area devoted to streets;
            5.   Approximate area devoted to, and number of, off-street parking
and loading spaces and related access;
            6.   Approximate area and floor area devoted to industrial or
office use;
            7.   Total area of the property.
         (c)   When the PUD is to be constructed in stages during a period of
time extending beyond a single construction season, a schedule for the
development of such stages or units shall be submitted stating the approximate
beginning and completion date for each stage or unit and the proportion of the
total PUD public or common open space and dwelling units to be provided or
constructed during each stage and overall chronology of development to be
followed from stage to stage.
         (d)   When the proposed PUD includes provisions for public or common
open space or service facilities, a statement describing the provision that is
to be made for the care and maintenance of such open space or service
facilities.
         (e)   Any restrictive covenants that are to be recorded with respect
to property included in the proposed PUD.
         (f)   Schematic utility plans indicating placement of water, sanitary
and storm sewers.
         (g)   The city may excuse an applicant from submitting any specific
item of information or document required in this stage that it finds to be
unnecessary to the consideration of the specific proposal.
         (h)   The city may require the submission of any additional
information or documentation that it may find necessary.
   (F)   Final development plan.
      (1)   Following preliminary development plan approval, if given, the
applicant shall submit the final development plan application and final plat.
The application shall proceed and be acted upon in accordance with procedures
for final plat review and approval. If appropriate, because of the limited
scale of the proposal, the preliminary development plan stage and final
development plan stages may proceed simultaneously.
      (2)   Final development plan submission should depict and outline the
proposed implementations of the approved preliminary development plan and PUD
agreement. Information from the preliminary development plan may be included
for background and to provide a basis for the submitted plan. The final
development plan submissions shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A final plat and information required by
Chapter 153;
         (b)   Ten sets of preliminary plans drawn to a scale of not less than
one inch equals 100 feet (or scale requested by the Zoning Administrator)
containing at least the following information:
            1.   Proposed name of the development (which shall not duplicate
nor be similar in pronunciation to the name of any plat previously recorded in
the county where the subject property is situated);
            2.   Property boundary lines and dimensions of the property and any
significant topographical or physical features of the property;
            3.   The location, size, use, and arrangement including height in
stories and feet and total square feet of ground area coverage and floor area
of proposed buildings, including mobile homes, and existing buildings which
will remain, if any;
            4.   Location, dimensions of all driveways, entrances, curb cuts,
parking stalls, loading spaces and access aisles, and all other circulation
elements including bike and pedestrian; and the total site coverage of all
circulation elements;
            5.   Location, designation, and total area of all common open
space;
            6.    Location, designation and total area proposed to be conveyed
or dedicated for public open space, including parks, playgrounds, school sites
and recreational facilities;
            7.   Proposed lots and blocks, if any, and numbering system;
            8.   The location, use and size of structures and other land uses
on adjacent properties;
            9.   Detailed sketches and provisions of proposed landscaping;
            10.   General grading and drainage plans for the developed PUD;
            11.   Any other information that may have been required by the
Planning Commission or City Council in conjunction with the approval of the
preliminary development plan.
         (c)   An accurate legal description of the entire area within the PUD
for which final development plan approval is sought.
         (d)   A tabulation indicating the number of residential dwelling units
and expected population.
         (e)   A tabulation indicating the gross square footage, if any, of
commercial and industrial floor space by type of activity (such as drug store,
dry cleaning, supermarket).
         (f)   Architectural “typical” plans indicating use, floor, plan,
elevations and exterior wall finishes of proposed buildings, including mobile
homes.
         (g)   A detailed site plan, suitable for recording, showing the
physical layout, design and purpose of all streets, easements, rights of way,
utility lines and facilities, lots, blocks, public and common open space,
general landscaping plan, structure, including mobile homes, and uses.
         (h)   Preliminary grading and site alteration plan illustrating
changes to existing topography and natural site vegetation. The plan should
clearly reflect the site treatment and its conformance with the approved
preliminary development plan.
         (i)   A preliminary plat prepared in accordance with
Chapter 153.
         (j)   A soil erosion control plan acceptable to watershed districts,
department of natural resources, soil conservation service, or any other agency
with review authority clearly illustrating erosion control measures to be used
during construction and as permanent measures.
   (G)   Fees. Fees associated with the PUD application shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
ZONING DISTRICTS; ZONING MAP
§ 154.055 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   In order to carry out the purpose and provisions of this code, the city is
hereby divided into the following zoning districts and groups of districts:
   (A)   “A” Agricultural District. The “A” Agricultural District preserves the
land for agricultural or undeveloped uses until development requires that such
land be released and rezoned for purposes of controlled and orderly growth
according to the Comprehensive Plan pending proper timing and allowance for the
economic provisions of urban services.
   (B)   “R” Residential Districts.
      (1)   The “R-l” One and Two Family Residential District intends to
create, preserve and enhance residential areas for one and two family attached
dwellings.
      (2)   The “R-2" Multiple Family Residential District intends to create,
preserve and enhance residential areas for multiple family use at low to medium
densities (up to four dwelling units) for families and singles. It is typically
appropriate for as a transition area between low-density residential districts
and high- density residential districts.
      (3)   The “R-3" High Density Residential District intends to create,
preserve and enhance residential areas for multiple family use at high
densities (over four dwelling units per structure) for families and singles. It
is typically appropriate in areas of good accessibility to thoroughfares, open
space, public transportation, public community centers, libraries, education
institutions and commercial centers.
   (C)   “B” Business Districts.
      (1)   The “B-l” Central Business District intends to preserve and enhance
the city’s central business district as the prime center for offices,
government offices, shopping, and cultural activities.
      (2)   The “B-2" General Business District intends to permit selected
businesses in areas adjacent to residential neighborhoods where analysis of the
population demonstrates that such establishments are required and desirable.
      (3)   The “B-3" Highway Business District intends to permit service and
retail businesses primarily orientated towards motorists and requiring high
volumes of traffic and visibility from major roads.
   (D)   "M" Mixed Use District. The "M-1" Mixed Use District provides a
location for an intermixing of low to medium density residential, including
single-family detached and two-family dwellings, with select businesses where
an analysis of the population demonstrates that such establishments are well
suited, cohesive, and desirable.
   (E)   “I” Industrial Districts.
      (1)   The “I-1" Limited Industrial District provides a location for non-
nuisance type manufacturing and/or less intensive commercial uses such as
wholesale activities, with incidental outside storage.
      (2)   The “I-2" General Industrial District provides a location for
heavier industrial and manufacturing activities, without encroachment by
incompatible use areas.
      (3)   The “I-3" Special Industrial District provides a location for
industries that could use recycled products from the recycling center and
industries that could benefit from railroad access and heavy truck traffic.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03; Ord. 1160.24, passed 3-4-24)
§ 154.056 USES.
   (A)   Uses in the various districts shall be as follows:
      (1)   P = Permitted Use
      (2)   A= Permitted Accessory Use
      (3)   C= Conditional Use Permit Required
      (4)   N= Not Allowed
   (B)   The list of uses in the various districts stated in this section is
not exhaustive; for uses not specifically listed below, said uses shall be
classified as a conditional use whereby a conditional use permit is required
pursuant to §
154.178 before said use shall be permitted in any of the below referenced
districts.
LAND USE DISTRICTS
         A* R-1 * R-2 * R-3 * B-1 * B-2 * B-3 * M- 1* I-1* I-2* I-3*
LAND USE            DISTRICTS
                    A* R-1 * R-2 * R-3 * B-1 * B-2 * B-3 * M- 1* I-1* I-2* I-3*
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
Agriculture         P  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     C    C    C
Animal Feedlot      SEE SWIFT COUNTY FEEDLOT ORDINANCE
Animal Impound      N  N     N     N     N     C     C     N     C    C    C
Animal, Commercial  C  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     N    N    N
Training
Domestic Pets       SEE TITLE IX, CHAPTER 90
Forests             P  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     C    C    P
Kennel              N  N     N     N     N     C     C     N     C    C    C
Nature Center
(Public and         C  C     C     C     N     N     N     C     N    N    N
private)
Nursery and Garden
Supplies (Exterior  C  N     N     N     C     C     P     C     N    N    N
or Enclosed Sales)
Nursery and Garden
Supplies            C  N     N     N     N     N     C     C     C    C    C
(Wholesale)
Nursery, Retail     P  N     N     N     P     P     P     C     N    N    N
Sale of Plants
Nursery, Wholesale  P  N     N     N     N     N     N     C     C    C    C
Growing of Plants
RESIDENTIAL USES
Duplex              N  P     P     P     N     N     N     P     N    N    N
Earth Sheltered     N  C     C     C     N     N     N     C     N    N    N
Building
Manufactured Home
Park (Mobile Home   N  C     C     C     N     N     N     N     N    N    N
Park)
Multiple Family
Dwellings (Four or  N  N     N     P     N     N     N     N     N    N    N
More Units)
Multiple Family
Dwellings (Up to    N  N     P     P     C     N     N     C     N    N    N
Four Units)
Residential, Single N  P     P     P     N     N     N     P     N    N    N
Family Dwelling
Townhouses          N  N     C     P     N     N     N     C     N    N    N
SERVICES, MERCHANDISING, LEISURE USES, OFFICE USES
Adult Businesses    SEE TITLE XI: CHAPTER 117
Airport (Landing
Strip, Heliport, or N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     C    C    C
Aircraft Shop)
Alcohol, On and/or
Off Sale            N  N     N     N     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
SEE ALSO TITLE XI:
CHAPTER 110
Archery Range,      N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     N    N    N
Commercial
Armories,
Convention Halls    N  N     N     N     C     P     P     C     N    N    N
and Similar Uses
Automobile and      N  N     N     N     C     C     P     C     N    N    N
Truck Sales
Automobile and
Truck Service       N  N     N     N     C     C     P     C     C    C    C
Station
Automobile
Reduction Yard,     N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     N    C    C
Junkyard
Automobile Repair   N  N     N     N     C     C     P     C     P    C    C
Automobile Wash     N  N     N     N     N     C     P     C     N    N    N
(Car Wash)
Barbershops, Beauty N  N     N     N     P     P     P     P     N    N    N
Shops
Bed and Breakfast   N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
Establishment
Boarders (No More   N  A     A     A     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
Than Two)
Boat and Boat       N  N     N     N     C     C     P     C     C    C    C
Trailer Sales
Broadcasting Studio N  N     N     N     P     P     P     C     C    C    C
Campgrounds         N  C     C     C     N     N     N     N     N    N    N
Cannabis Retail     N  N     N     N     P     C     C     C     C    C    C
Cannabis            C  N     N     N     P     C     C     C     P    P    P
Transportation
Cannabis Delivery   C  C     C     C     P     C     C     C     P    P    P
Cannabis            C  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     C    C    C
Cultivation
Cannabis
Manufacturing,      N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     C    C    C
Processing,
Extraction
(Cannabis) Hemp     N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     C    C    C
Manufacturing
Cannabis Wholesale  N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     C    C    C
Churches            N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
Clubs or Lodges     N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
Commercial          N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
Recreation
Day Care Facility,  N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
State Licensed
Drive In Business   N  N     N     N     C     C     P     C     N    N    N
Essential Services,
Public Utility (SEE C  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     C    C    C
SECTION 154.021)
Exterior Sales and  N  N     N     N     N     C     C     C     C    C    C
Storage
Farm Equipment,     C  N     N     N     N     C     C     C     C    C    C
Sale
Fuel Sales
(Wholesale and      N  N     N     N     N     C     C     N     C    C    C
Storage)
Funeral Homes       N  C     C     C     P     P     P     P     N    N    N
Garage, Private     N  A     A     A     P     P     P     N     P    P    P
Garage, Private     N  N     N     N     C     C     P     N     C    C    C
(Commercial)
Garage, Storage     N  N     N     N     C     C     P     N     P    P    P
(Commercials)
Golf Courses        N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
Greenhouses
(Commercial         C  N     N     N     C     P     P     C     P    P    P
Production Only)
Guest House         N  C     C     C     N     N     N     C     N    N    N
Gun Clubs           N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     N    N    N
Gun Ranges          N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     N    N    N
Home Occupation     N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
Hotel               N  N     N     N     P     P     P     C     N    N    N
Live Entertainment  N  N     N     N     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
or Dancing
Lodging Room (Not   N  N     N     N     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
More Than Two)
Medical Uses        N  C     C     C     P     P     P     C     N    N    N
Motel               N  N     N     N     P     P     P     C     N    N    N
Motor Freight       N  N     N     N     N     N     C     N     C    C    C
Terminal
Offices             N  C     C     C     P     P     P     P     C    C    C
Offices, Accessory  N  C     C     C     P     P     P     P     P    P    P
Open Sales Lot      N  N     N     N     N     C     C     C     C    C    C
Photo-Art Studio    N  C     C     C     P     P     P     P     N    N    N
Race Tracks         N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     N    N    N
Rental of Cars,
Trailers, Campers,  N  N     N     N     C     C     P     C     C    C    C
Trucks and Similar
Equipment
Repair Shop (Small  N  N     N     N     P     P     P     P     C    C    C
Appliances)
Residential         N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
Facilities
Resorts             N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
Rest or Nursing     N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
Homes
Restaurant, Drive   N  N     N     N     C     C     P     C     N    N    N
In or Through
Restaurant, Eat In  N  N     N     N     P     P     P     P     N    N    N
or Take Out
Retail Businesses   N  N     N     N     P     P     P     P     N    N    N
Retail Businesses,  N  C     C     C     P     P     P     P     N    N    N
Accessory
Retail Sales of
Agricultural        C  N     N     N     C     C     P     C     C    C    C
Supplies
Riding Stable,      C  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     N    N    N
Commercial
Riding Stable,      C  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     N    N    N
Private
Schools, Private    N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
Schools, Public     N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
Shopping Center     N  N     N     N     P     P     P     C     N    N    N
Stand, Private      C  N     N     N     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
Roadside
Storage, Enclosed
or Screened         N  N     N     N     C     C     C     C     C    C    C
Principal Use
Storage, Enclosed,
Normally Related to N  N     N     N     C     C     C     C     C    C    C
Principal Use
Storage, Highway    N  N     N     N     N     N     C     C     P    P    P
During Construction
Storage, Not
Accessory to        N  N     N     N     N     C     C     C     C    C    C
Permitted Principal
Use
Storage, Open       N  N     N     N     N     N     C     N     C    C    C
Principal Use
Studio, Arts or     N  C     C     C     P     P     P     P     N    N    N
Crafts
Swimming Pool       N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
(Commercial)
Swimming Pool       N  P     P     P     C     C     C     P     N    N    N
(Private)
Tennis Courts       N  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     N    N    N
(Public)
Terminal,
Transportation/Moto N  N     N     N     N     N     C     N     C    C    C
r Freights
Theatre             N  N     N     N     C     P     P     C     N    N    N
Theatre, Drive In   N  N     N     N     N     N     C     N     N    N    N
Used Automobile     N  N     N     N     C     C     P     C     N    N    N
Parts
Utility Substation  N  N     N     N     C     C     C     C     C    C    C
Veterinary Clinic   N  N     N     N     C     C     P     C     N    N    N
Wholesale Business  N  N     N     N     C     C     P     C     P    P    P
INDUSTRIAL USES
Blacktop or
Crushing Equipment  N  N     N     N     N     N     C     N     C    C    C
for Highway
Disposal Areas,
Solid & Liquid      N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     C    C    C
Waste
Explosives,
Manufacture,        N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     N    N    N
Storage or Use
Flammable Gases and
Liquids, Business   N  N     N     N     N     C     C     C     C    C    C
Distribution
Manufacturing,      N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     N    P    P
Heavy
Manufacturing,      N  N     N     N     N     N     N     C     P    P    P
Light
Mining (Sand and    N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     N    C    C
Gravel)
Reduction or
Processing of       N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     N    P    P
Refuse, Trash and
Garbage
Slaughter Facility  N  N     N     N     N     C     C     C     P    P    P
Storage
Underground,
Flammable Materials C  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     C    C    C
Accessory to
Agricultural or
Residential Use
Warehousing         N  N     N     N     N     N     P     N     P    P    P
OTHER USES
Antennas/Towers
over 35 Feet in     C  C     C     C     C     C     C     C     C    C    C
Height
Cemeteries          N  C     C     C     N     N     N     N     N    N    N
Crematories         N  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     C    C    C
Fences              SEE SECTION 154.017
Signs               SEE SECTION 154.020
Wind Energy         C  N     N     N     N     N     N     N     N    N    C
Conversion System
 
* Drinking Water Source Management Area (DWSMA)
   (C)   Outlined on the Zoning Map is the Drinking Water Source Management
Area (DWSMA) for the Benson Municipal Wells. The DWSMA is the visible boundary
outlining the area which supplies all water to the Benson Municipal Wells. The
aquifer which supplies water to the Benson Municipal Wells has been classified
as “moderately vulnerable” by the Minnesota Department of Health. For the
purpose of ensuring the protection of the municipal water supply, conditional
use permits will be required for any land use within the DWSMA which requires
the installation of wells, installation of aboveground or underground storage
tanks over 500 gallons, all industrial uses, and any permitted agricultural
uses. The conditional use permit requirement will allow the city to assess
potential risks involved with any new permitted uses within the DWSMA prior to
issuing a permit.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03; Am. Ord. 1155.21, passed 8-2-21; Am. Ord. 212,
passed 5-15-23)
§ 154.057 ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the above districts are hereby established on that certain
map entitled the “Zoning Map of Benson, Minnesota.” The map is properly
approved and in the office of the Zoning Administrator in the City Hall, and is
hereinafter referred to as the “Zoning Map.” This map and all of the notations,
references, and other information shown thereon shall have the same force and
effect as if fully set forth and described herein.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.058 DISTRICT BOUNDARY LINES; APPEALS.
   District boundary lines as indicated on the Zoning Map follow lot lines, the
center lines of streets, alleys, or railroads, the center lines of streets or
alleys projected, the center of watercourses, or the corporate limit lines, all
as they exist upon the effective date of this code or thereto. If district
boundary lines do not follow any of the abovedescribed lines, the district
boundary lines are established as drawn on the Zoning Map. Where a district
boundary line divides a lot of record, which was in single ownership at the
time of enactment of this code and places portions of such lot of record in two
or more use districts, any portion of such lot within 50 feet on either side of
such a dividing district boundary line may be used for any use of either use
districts; provided, however, if any portion of such lot shall extend beyond
the 50 foot limitation, the district line as shown shall prevail. Appeals from
the Zoning Administrator’s determination and questions of doubt concerning the
exact location of district boundary lines shall be heard by the Board of
Appeals. See also §
154.181.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.059 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS, AREA, FRONTAGE, AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
“A” AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
Structure      Lot Area Lot Width     Lot Depth     Lot Depth     Lot Depth
Height Maximum Minimum  Minimum (ft.) Minimum Front Minimu m Side Minimum Rear
(feet)         (acre)                 Yard (ft.)    Yard (ft.)    Yard (ft.)
“A” AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
                                       Lot Depth Lot Depth
Structure Height    Lot Area Lot Width Minimum   Minimu m   Lot Depth
Maximum (feet)      Minimum  Minimum   Front     Side       Minimum Rear
                    (acre)   (ft.)     Yard      Yard (ft.) Yard (ft.)
                                       (ft.)
50                  5 acres  N/A       N/A       N/A        N/A
"R-1" ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
                    Lot Area           Lot Depth Lot Depth
Structure Height    Minimum  Lot Width Minimum   Minimu m   Lot Depth
Maximum             (sq.     Minimum   Front     Side       Minimum Rear
(feet)              ft.)     (ft.)     Yard      Yard (ft.) Yard (ft.)
                                       (ft.)
Principal 42
Structure
Accessor  80% of    10,800   80        40        10         30
y         Principal
Building  Structure
   "R-2" MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
                             Lot Area  Lot Width Lot Depth  Lot Depth Lot Depth
Structure Height    # of     Minimum   Minimum   Minimu m   Minimu m  Minimu m
Maximum (feet)      Units    (sq. ft.) (ft.)     Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
                                                 (ft.)      (ft.)     (ft.)
Principal 42
Structure
Accessor  80% of    1-2      9,000     75        30         10        20
y         principal
Structure structure
Principal 42
Structure                    8,000
Accessor  80% of    3-4*     plus      100       30         10        20
y         principal          1,000 per
Structure structure          unit

*Structures four or more stories in height shall require 1,000 additional
square feet of lot area per unit.
 
“R-3" HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
                            Lot                                                               Lot
                            Area    Lot                                                       Depth
Structure Height    # of    Minimum Width   Lot Depth Minimu m Front Yard (ft.)               Minimu Lot Depth Minimu m
Maximum (feet)      Units   (sq.    Minimum                                                   m Side Rear Yard (ft.)
                            ft.)    (ft.)                                                     Yard
                                                                                              (ft.)
Principal 85
Structure                   6,000
                            plus
Accesso             4-8     1,000   100     30                                                10     20
ry        35**              per
Structure                   unit

Principal 85
Structure                   2,000
                    8 or    plus
Accesso             more*   1,000   100     30                                                10     20
ry        35**              per
Structure                   unit

*Structures four or more stories in height shall require 1,000 additional square feet of lot area per unit.
**No higher than principal structure.
“B-1" CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
                    Lot             Lot
                    Area    Lot     Depth
Structure Height    Minimum Width   Minimum Lot Depth Minimu m Side Yard (ft.)                Lot Depth Minimum Rear
Maximum (feet)      (sq.    Minimum Front                                                     Yard (ft.)
                    ft.)    (ft.)   Yard
                                    (ft.)
Principal 40
Structure
          40 and no                         Same as “R” District when abutting an “R” 30 feet when abutting an
Accesso   higher    3,000   40      N/A     District                                          “R” District
ry        than
Building  principal
          structure
“B-2" GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
                    Lot             Lot
                    Area    Lot     Depth
Structure Height    Minimum Width   Minimum Lot Depth Minimu m Side Yard (ft.)                Lot Depth Minimum Rear
Maximum (feet)      (sq.    Minimum Front                                                     Yard (ft.)
                    ft.)    (ft.)   Yard
                                    (ft.)
Principal 40
Structure
          40 and no                         Same as “R” District when abutting an “R” 30 feet when abutting an
Accesso   higher    4,000   40      N/A     District                                          “R” District
ry        than
Building  principal
          structure
 
“B-3" HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
                    Lot             Lot     Lot
                    Area    Lot     Depth   Depth
Structure Height    Minimum Width   Minimum Minimu Lot Depth Minimum Rear Yard
Maximum (feet)      (sq.    Minimum Front   m Side (ft.)
                    ft.)    (ft.)   yard    Yard
                                    (ft.)   (ft.)
Principal 40
Structure
Accesso   No higher 4,000   80      15      10     30 feet when abutting an “R”
ry        than                                     District
Building  principal
          structure
   “M-1" MIXED USE DISTRICT
UTILIZE LIMITATION DATA APPLICABLE TO THE TYPE OF USE LAND IS PUT TO
                    Lot             Lot     Lot
                    Area    Lot     Depth   Depth
Structure Height    Minimum Width   Minimum Minimu Lot Depth Minimum Rear Yard
Maximum (feet)      (sq.    Minimum Front   m Side (ft.)
                    ft.)    (ft.)   Yard    Yard
                                    (ft.)   (ft.)
Principal See above
Structure           See                     See
                    above   See             above
                    R-1 use above   See     R-
                    -       R-1 use above   1 use
                    10,800  - 80    R-1 use - 10   See above
Accesso             R-2 use R-2 use - 40    R-     R-1 use - 30
ry        See above - 8,000 - 75 to R-2 use 2 use  R-2 use - 20
Building            to      100     - 30    - 10   B-2 use - see above
                    9,000   B-2 use B-2 use B-
                    B-2 use - 40    - N/A   2 use
                    - 4,000                 - see
                                            above

“I-1" LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
                            Lot     Lot     Lot
Structure Height Maximum    Area    Width   Depth
(feet)                Minimum Minimum Minimu Maximum Structural Coverage
                            (acre)  (ft.)   m
                                            (ft.)
Principal 45
Structure                      1
Accesso   No higher than    acre       10   1   35%
ry        principal
Building  structure
Minimum Setbacks (feet) when        Minimum Setbacks (feet) when Abutting Non-
Abutting Residential District       Residential District
 
Front Yard 75  Side 75 Rear 75 Front 20 Side Yard 15 Rear Yard 15
                 yard    Yard    Yard
 
 
“I-2" GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Structure Height    Lot Area Minimum Lot Width Lot Depth Minimu Maximum
Maximum (feet)      (acre)           Minimum   m                Structural
                                     (ft.)     (ft.)            Coverage
Principal 85
Structure
Accessory 80% of    1 acre           100       100              35%
Building  principal
          structure
 
Minimum Setbacks (feet) when Abutting Minimum Setbacks (feet) when Abutting
Residential District                  Non-Residential District
 
Front 100 Side Yard 100 Rear Yard 100 Front Yard 50 Side Yard 50 Rear Yard 50
Yard
 
 
“I-3" SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Structure Height    Lot Area Minimum Lot Width Lot Depth Minimu Maximum
Maximum (feet)      (acre)           Minimum   m                Structural
                                     (ft.)     (ft.)            Coverage
Principal 85
Structure
Accessory 80% of    1 acre           100       100              50%
Building  principal
          structure
Minimum Setbacks (feet) when         Minimum Setbacks (feet) when Abutting
Abutting                             Non-Residential District
Residential District
 
Front 100 Side yard 100 Rear Yard 100 Front Yard 50 Side Yard 50 Rear Yard 50
Yard
 
   (A)   Height limitations.
      (1)   Height limitations as set forth elsewhere in this code may be
increased by 50% when applied to the following:
         (a)   Church spires;
         (b)   Belfries;
         (c)   Water towers;
         (d)   Flagpoles;
         (e)   Smokestacks;
         (f)   Cooling towers;
         (g)   Elevators;
         (h)   Elevator penthouses.
      (2)   Heights in excess of those allowed under this section shall be
permitted only by a conditional use permit granted by resolution of the City
Council determining that such structure would not be dangerous and would not
adversely affect the adjoining or adjacent property.
   (B)   Front yards.
      (1)   In any “R” district, where the average front yard of lots with
existing buildings within 200 feet of the lot in question and in the same block
is less than the minimum required by this code, the minimum front yard shall,
for the lot in question, be 90% percent of the average of the existing front
yards. However, no front yard shall be less than the smallest front yard
existing nor shall any front yard be less than 20 feet.
      (2)   The front yard in any “R” district may be varied in any single
block and the minimum front yard may be less than the minimum prescribed by
this chapter, but in no event less than 20 feet, if there is an overall design
to the variation and the overall design is approved by action of the City
Council upon the advice from the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Along thoroughfares as designated in the Guide Plan, the minimum
front setback may be varied by action of the City Council upon advice from the
Planning Commission.
   (C)   Frontage. No lot shall contain any building used as a dwelling unless
it abuts at least 20 feet on a public right-of-way 50 feet or more in width.
   (D)   Side yards. A building may be excluded from side setback requirements
if party walls are used and if the adjacent buildings are constructed as an
integral unit. If party walls (fire resistant) or integral construction is
planned, the structure shall be located along the side lot line.
   (E)   Lot requirements. A lot or parcel of land for which a deed has been
recorded in the office of the County Recorder upon or prior to the effective
date of this code shall be deemed a buildable lot provided it has frontage on a
public right-of-way and space requirements for the district in which it is
located can be maintained or adjusted to conform as follows:
      (1)   A lot or parcel of land recorded upon the effective date of this
chapter which is in a residential district and that does not meet the
requirements of this code as to area, width, or yard space may be utilized for
dwelling purposes providing that the requirements for front yard setback remain
the same and that each side yard be not less than 12% of the lot width, or in
any event less than six feet, except that the street side of corner lots shall
have a minimum of ten foot side yards. No building permit may be granted for
lots of record whose measurements are less than 60% of the area, width, or yard
space required by this code.
      (2)   In all districts there shall be no more than one principal building
on one lot except as provided for in §
154.178.
   (F)   Yard and open space requirements.
      (1)   No yard or other open space shall be reduced in area or dimension
by sale or other means so as to make such yard or other open space less than
the minimum required by this code, and if the existing yard or other open space
as existing is less than the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced.
      (2)   No required yard or other open space allocated to a building or
dwelling group shall be used to satisfy minimum lot area requirements for any
other building.
      (3)   The following shall not be considered as encroachments on required
yards:
         (a)   Chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters,
lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves, gutters, and the like, provided
they do not extend more than 1 ½ feet into a yard;
         (b)   Fences that do not exceed 3 ½ feet in height; terraces, steps,
uncovered porches, stoops, or similar structures that do not extend above the
height of the ground floor level of the principal building and do not extend to
a distance less than two feet from any lot line; yard lights and nameplate
signs in “R” districts; trees, shrubs, and plants; floodlights or other sources
of light illuminating authorized illuminated signs; light standards for
illuminating parking areas, loading areas, or yards for safety and security
reasons, provided the direct source of light is not visible from the public
right-of-way or adjacent residential property; except as §
154.020 applies;
         (c)   Rear yard only: balconies, breezeways, detached outdoor picnic
shelters, and recreational equipment, except as regulated hereinafter.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03; Am. Ord. 1160.24, passed 3-4-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.060 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS (MOBILE HOME PARKS).
   Manufactured home parks including manufactured single family housing units,
office limited to administration of the park, recreational buildings and
structures, storm shelters, and other directly related complementary uses are
conditional uses subject to a site plan review and approval, pursuant to §
154.031, and/or planned unit development (PUD) agreement and final development
plan, pursuant to §§
154.040 -
154.047; and, in addition, in accordance with the following standards:
   (A)   General provisions for all manufactured home parks.
       (1)   Area. All land area shall be:
         (a)   Adequately drained;
         (b)   Landscaped to control dust;
         (c)   Clean and free from refuse, garbage, rubbish or debris.
      (2)   Outdoor camping. There shall not be outdoor camping anywhere in a
manufactured home park.
      (3)   Public access. Public access to manufactured housing parks shall be
as approved by the city.
      (4)   Building permit. All structures (fences, storage, decks, and the
like) shall require a building permit from the Building Official.
      (5)   Foundation enclosure. The area beneath a manufactured home shall be
enclosed except that such enclosure must have access for inspection.
      (6)   Emergency storm protections. Manufactured home parks shall comply
with emergency storm protections as required by Minnesota Statutes.
Additionally, all emergency storm protection measures shall be subject to the
approval of the city.
   (B)   Lot setbacks. In manufactured home parks created after January 1,
2003, no manufactured home shall be located closer than ten feet to a side or
rear lot line. The front yard setback shall be at least 30 feet from the street
surface. On corner lots, the side yard setback shall be at least 20 feet from
the street surface. No manufactured home shall be located closer than 30 feet
from the periphery lot line of the manufactured home park.
   (C)   Permitted encroachments. Attached steps, uncovered stoops, and
landings may encroach up to five feet into a side yard setback, provided that
they do not exceed 20 square feet in area or extend closer than ten feet to a
structure on an adjacent lot; an eave or overhang may encroach up to one foot
into a front, side, and rear setback.
   (D)   Building height requirements. No structure shall exceed one story or
30 feet, whichever is less.
   (E)   Utilities.
      (1)   All manufactured home parks shall be connected to a public water
and sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   All installations for disposal of surface storm water must be
approved by the city.
      (3)   All utility connections shall be as approved by the city.
      (4)   The source of fuel for cooking, heating, or other purposes at each
manufactured home site shall be as approved by the city.
      (5)   All utilities shall be underground; there shall be no overhead
wires or supporting poles except those essential for street lighting or other
lighting purposes.
      (6)   No obstruction shall be permitted that impedes the inspection of
plumbing, electrical facilities, and related manufactured home equipment.
      (7)   The method of garbage, waste, and trash disposal must be approved
by the city.
      (8)   The owner shall pay any required sewer and water connection fees to
the city.
       (9)   The owner shall pay inspection and testing fees for utility
service to the city.
    (F)   Accessory buildings.
      (1)   Limit. Accessory buildings including garages shall be limited to
one per manufactured home lot. Maximum allowable floor area shall not exceed 6%
of the lot size in manufactured home parks where lot size is delineated by site
plan or lot markers.
      (2)   Maximum building height. The maximum building height shall be no
higher than 80% of the principal building.
   (G)   Location. The manufactured home park site plan shall designate the
locations proposed for the development of garages and/or accessory buildings on
each manufactured lot. Said accessory buildings shall comply with the following
setback requirements:
      (1)   An accessory building shall only be located in side or rear yards;
      (2)   Accessory buildings shall not be located within any utility
easements;
      (3)   In manufactured home parks and on manufactured home parks lots
established after January 1, 2003, all accessory buildings located on
individual manufactured home unit lots shall be owned, constructed, and
maintained by the manufactured home park owner. All accessory structures shall
be established as part of a predetermined site plan and subject to the approval
of the City Council.
   (H)   Building type and construction. Any building addition shall either be
manufactured or custom built of materials that are consistent or compatible to
the design of the principal building. “Compatible” means that the exterior
appearance of an accessory building is not at variance with the principal
building from an aesthetic and architectural standpoint to cause:
      (1)   A difference to a degree to cause incongruity with the principal
building;
      (2)   A deviation from the general character of the neighborhood;
      (3)   A depreciation of neighborhood value or adjacent property values;
      (4)   A nuisance. Types of nuisance characteristics include, but are not
limited to noise, dust, odors, glare and unsightly building exterior.
   (I)   Design requirements for manufactured home parks created after January
1, 2003.
      (1)   Park size. The minimum area required for a manufactured home park
designation shall be ten acres.
      (2)   Lot size: Individual manufactured home lots:
         (a)   Lot width. Not less than 65 feet.
         (b)   Lot depth. Not less than 120 feet.
         (c)   Changes to lot width and lot depth requirements may be allowed
by conditional use permit as regulated by §
154.178.
         (d)   Each manufactured home shall have a frontage on an approved
roadway and the corners of each manufactured home lot shall be marked and each
lot shall be numbered.
   (J)   Parking.
      (1)   Each manufactured home lot shall have off-street parking space for
two passenger motor vehicles.
      (2)   All parking spaces shall be hard surfaced according to
specifications established by the city.
   (K)   Internal roads and streets.
      (1)   All streets shall be private streets and shall be developed with a
roadbed of not less than 28 feet in width and shall meet city design
specifications.
      (2)   The park shall have a street lighting plan approved by the city.
   (L)   Recreation. All manufactured home parks shall have at least 10% of the
land area developed for recreational use (tennis courts, children’s play
equipment, swimming pool, golf green, and the like) The recreational use shall
be developed and maintained at the owner/operator’s expense.
   (M)   Operational standards for manufactured home parks.
      (1)   Maintenance. The operator of any manufactured home park, or a duly
authorized attendant and/or caretaker shall be responsible at all times for
keeping the manufactured home park, its facilities and equipment, in a clean,
orderly, operable, and sanitary condition. The attendant or caretaker shall be
answerable, along with said operator, for the violation of any provisions of
these regulations to which said operator is subject.
      (2)   Inspections prior to sale. Prior to the sale of a manufactured home
within a manufactured home park, the operator of a manufactured home park or
the duly authorized attendant and/or caretaker must inform the Building
Official of the prospective sale and provide him or her with confirming
documentation from the Commissioner of compliance with the Manufactured Home
Building Code required by M.S. § 327.32.
      (3)   Permits. Prior to a manufactured home being moved into a lot, the
owner shall apply for and obtain a building permit for the (foundation)
blocking and a permit for connection to public sewer and water. The application
for permits shall be accompanied by a site plan, drawn to scale, detailing the
unit placement, accessory structures, and setbacks. See §
154.031 and §§
154.040 -
154.047.
      (4)   Upgrading. Prior to locating a manufactured home housing unit
constructed prior to July 1, 1997, on a lot within a manufactured home park
within the city, said unit shall be upgraded to current life safety codes and
subject to the approval of the Building Official.
      (5)   Street maintenance. All private internal streets in manufactured
home parks shall be maintained by the park owner in a good state of repair,
free from obstructions, encumbrances, depressions, pot holes, and break ups.
Snow shall be promptly plowed and removed from streets and adjacent mail boxes
and fire hydrants, so that snow or snow plows do not constitute a safety hazard
to motorists and pedestrians, or constitute an obstruction to emergency service
vehicles. Icy streets and areas adjacent to mail boxes shall be promptly
sanded. “Promptly” shall mean no later than 24 hours after the end of a
snowfall or in the case of ice within 24 hours after it was formed.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.061 TEMPORARY ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND.
   When land is proposed to be annexed to the city, the Planning Commission
shall hold a public hearing to determine the zoning of said land. The results
of the hearing, along with a recommendation, shall be presented to the City
Council. In the event of annexation proceedings becoming final before the
permanent zoning is determined, the annexed area shall be placed in the
agricultural district “A” and such classification shall be considered as an
interim step pending permanent classification.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.175 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Manager shall appoint a Zoning Administrator who shall have
the duty and responsibility of enforcing and administering this code.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall enforce this code and in addition
thereto and in furtherance of that authority he or she shall:
      (1)   Conduct inspections of buildings and use of land to determine
compliance with the terms of this code;
      (2)   Notify, in writing, any person responsible for violating a
provision of this chapter, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering
the action necessary to correct it;
      (3)   Order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or
structures; order removal of illegal buildings, structures, additions or
alterations; order discontinuance of illegal work being done; or take any other
action authorized by this chapter to insure compliance with or to prevent
violation of its provisions, including cooperation with the City Attorney in
the prosecution of complaints;
      (4)   Maintain permanent and current records of this code, including but
not limited to all maps, amendments, conditional uses, variances, appeals, and
applications thereto;
      (5)   Receive, file, and forward all applications for amendments,
variances, conditional uses, development plans or other matters to the Planning
Commission and City Council;
      (6)   Provide clerical and technical assistance to the Planning
Commission and Board of Zoning Adjustments and Appeals;
      (7)   Have additional duties as may be provided by the City Council.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.176 ADMINISTRATIVE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations and
procedures for the processing and consideration of activities allowed by
administrative permit, and of matters requiring the approval of the Zoning
Administrator with the goal of protecting the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the city.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application for an administrative permit shall be filed by the
property owner or designated agent with the Zoning Administrator on forms to be
provided by the city.
      (2)   The application may be accompanied by a non-refundable fee as set
forth in the city code for administrative permit applications.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and related
materials and shall determine whether the proposal is in compliance with all
applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances, and applicable performance
standards set forth in this chapter.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall consider possible adverse effects of
the proposed events or activity. Judgment shall be based upon (but not limited
to) the following factors:
         (a)   Compliance with and effect upon the Comprehensive Plan and
public facilities plans.
         (b)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the use, event or
activity will promote and enhance the general public welfare and will not be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, or comfort.
         (c)   The use, event, or activity will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the
neighborhood.
         (d)   The establishment of the use, event, or activity will not impede
the normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for
uses permitted in the district.
         (e)   Adequate public facilities and services are available or can be
reasonably provided to accommodate the use, event or activity that is proposed.
         (f)   The use, event or activity shall, in all other respects, conform
to the applicable regulations of the district in which it is located.
         (g)   The use, event or activity and site conform to the performance
standards as outlined in all applicable provisions of this chapter.
         (h)   The Zoning Administrator shall make a determination on approval
or denial of the administrative permit within 60 days from the date of
submission of a complete application.
         (i)   A written permit shall be issued to the applicant when a
determination of compliance has been made. Specific conditions to assure
compliance with applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances, and the
standards of this chapter shall be attached to the permit.
         (j)   Determination of non-compliance with applicable codes,
ordinances, and the standards in this division shall be communicated to the
applicant in writing and the application for the permit shall be considered
denied; unless, within ten days of the date of such notice, the applicant
submits revised plans and/or information with which the Zoning Administrator is
able to determine compliance.
         (k)   Unresolved disputes as to administrative application of the
requirements of this division shall be subject to appeal as defined by §
154.181.
   (C)   Information requirement. The information required for all
administrative permit applications shall include:
      (1)   A concise statement describing the proposed use, event, or
activity, including the purpose, type of merchandise involved, dates and times
of operation, number of employees involved, provisions for on-site security,
provisions for on-site parking, and other pertinent information required by the
Zoning Administrator to fully evaluate the application;
      (2)   A copy of the approved site plan for the property or an “as built”
survey that accurately represents existing conditions on the site, including
entrances and exits, bona fide parking and driving areas, and that accurately
indicates any proposed temporary structures, including tents, stands, and
signs;
      (3)   An accurate floor plan, when in the judgment of the Zoning
Administrator, such a plan is necessary to properly evaluate the location of
the event and the effectiveness of the available entrances and exits;
      (4)   A copy of the current sales tax certificate issued by the State of
Minnesota, if applicable.
   (D)   Performance standards. All uses, events or activities allowed by
administrative permit shall conform to the applicable standards outlined in the
zoning district in which such use, event or activity is proposed.
   (E)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of applications and
administrative permits.
      (2)   A copy of all administrative permits issued shall be forwarded to
appropriate staff as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Violation of an issued permit or of the provisions of this section
also shall be grounds for denial of future permit applications.
   (F)   Certification of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for an
administrative permit, the applicant shall provide certification to the city
that there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest, or
city utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the administrative
permit application relates.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.177 VARIANCES.
    (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The City Council may grant variances from the strict application of
the provisions of this code and impose conditions and safeguards in the
variances so granted when it is in the public interest to grant such a
variance, the variance is in harmony with the general purposes and intent of
the ordinance, and the variance is consistent with the comprehensive plan.
      (2)   Variances may only be granted when the applicant for the variance
establishes that there are practical difficulties in complying with the zoning
ordinance.
         (a)   PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES , as used in connection with the granting
of a variance, means that:
            1.   The property owner proposes to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by the zoning ordinance;
            2.   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to
the property not created by the landowner; and
            3.   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
         (b)   Practical difficulties include, but are not limited to, the
following:
            1.   Narrowness, shallowness, or odd size or shape of the lot;
            2.   Exceptional topographic conditions, water conditions, or other
extraordinary and exceptional conditions of the lot;
            3.   The owner can show that the strict compliance with the zoning
regulations is unreasonable.
      (3)   The Planning Commission and City Council may take into
consideration the present and possible future use of the property and possible
benefits that may inure to the city.
   (B)   Applications. Applications for variances shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator and shall state the exceptional conditions of the lot and
the peculiar and practical difficulties claimed as a basis for a variance.
   (C)   Referral to Planning Commission. All applications for variances shall
be referred to the Planning Commission that shall hear the applicant, or a
representative thereof, at its next regular meeting after the filing of the
application or at some other specified time. The Planning Commission shall
recommend such conditions relating to the granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to adjust the hardship or special situation so as to carry out the
intent and purpose of this code or it may deny the request.
   (D)   Action by City Council. Upon receiving the recommendation of the
Planning Commission or within 60 days after referral of the application for a
variance to the Planning Commission if no recommendation has been transmitted,
the City Council shall place the request on the agenda for its next regular
meeting. The City Council shall reach a decision upon the request within 60
days after the date of the above meeting.
   (E)   Variance for use. No variance shall be granted for the purpose of
allowing a use that is not eligible in a district. Variances in use of land
shall require a conditional use permit.
   (F)   Granting of variance. In considering all requests and in taking
subsequent action, the Planning Commission and the City Council shall make a
finding of fact that the proposed action will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, increase the danger of fire, endanger the
public safety, unreasonably increase the congestion in the public streets,
unreasonably diminish or impair established property values within the
neighborhood, or in any way be contrary to the intent of this code before any
such variance may be granted.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03; Ord. 1137.11, passed 9-6-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.178 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a conditional use permit is to authorize and
regulate uses that may be beneficial in a specific instance to the general
welfare of the community, yet ensure that such uses are not detrimental to
surrounding property, and are consistent with the stated purpose of the zoning
district in that such uses are located regarding conditions of operation,
location, arrangement, and construction.
   (B)   Procedure. Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, an application for a conditional
use permit shall be approved or denied within 60 days from the date of its
official and complete submission unless extended pursuant to statute or a time
waiver is granted by the applicant. If applicable, processing of the
application through required state or federal agencies shall extend the review
and decision-making period an additional 60 days unless this limitation is
waived by the applicant. Additional city requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Request for conditional use permits, as provided within this
chapter, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on an official
application form. Such application shall also be accompanied by detailed
written and graphic materials, the number and size as prescribed by the Zoning
Administrator, fully explaining the proposed change, development, or use and
list of property owners located within 350 feet of the subject property in a
format prescribed by the Zoning Administrator. The application shall be
considered as being fully submitted and complete when the applicant has
complied with all the specified information requirements.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a complete application, as determined by staff
review, and following preliminary staff analysis of the application and
request, the Zoning Administrator, when appropriate, shall set a public hearing
following proper hearing notification. The Planning Commission shall conduct
the hearing, and report its finding and make recommendations to the City
Council. Notice of said hearing shall consist of a legal property description,
a description of request, and a map detailing property location and shall be
mailed to all owners of property within 350 feet of the boundary of the
property in question.
      (3)   Failure of a property owner to receive said notice shall not
invalidate any such proceeding as set forth within this chapter.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall consider possible adverse effects of
the proposed conditional uses. Its judgment shall be based upon, but not
limited to, the following factors:
         (a)   Compliance with and effect upon the Comprehensive Plan,
including public facilities and capital improvement plans;
         (b)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the conditional
use will promote and enhance the general public welfare and will not be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals or comfort;
         (c)   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the
neighborhood;
         (d)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district;
         (e)   The conditional use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located;
         (f)   The conditional use complies with the general and specific
performance standards as specified by this section and this chapter.
      (5)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors, said information is to be
declared necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all
pertinent sections of this chapter.
      (6)   The applicant or a representative thereof may appear before the
Planning Commission in order to present information and answer questions
concerning the proposed request.
      (7)   The Planning Commission shall make a finding of fact and make a
recommendation on such actions or conditions relating to the request as they
deem necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter. Such
recommendation shall be in writing.
      (8)   The City Council shall not grant a conditional use permit until
they have received a report and recommendation from the Planning Commission, or
until 60 days after the first regular Planning Commission meeting at which the
request was considered.
      (9)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the City Manager shall schedule the application for consideration
by the City Council. Such reports and recommendations shall be entered in and
made part of the permanent record of the City Council meeting.
      (10)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall have the option to set and hold a public
hearing if deemed necessary and shall make a recorded finding of fact and may
impose any condition they consider necessary to protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
      (11)   If upon receiving said reports and recommendations of the Planning
Commission, the City Council finds that specific inconsistencies exist in the
review process and thus the final recommendations of the City Council will
differ from that of the Planning Commission, the City Council may, before
taking final action, refer the matter back to the Planning Commission for
further consideration. This procedure shall be followed only one time on a
singular action.
      (12)   Approval of a request shall require passage by a majority vote of
the entire City Council.
      (13)   Whenever an application for a conditional use permit has been
considered and denied by the City Council, a similar application for a
conditional use permit affecting substantially the same property shall not be
considered again by the Planning Commission or City Council for at least six
months from the date of its denial; and a subsequent application affecting
substantially the same property shall likewise not be considered again by the
Planning Commission or City Council for an additional six months from the date
of the second denial unless a decision to reconsider such matter is made by a
majority vote of the full City Council.
   (C)   Granting of permit. In considering applications for conditional use
permits under this code, the City Council shall consider the advice and
recommendations of the Planning Commission and the effect of the proposed use
upon the health, safety, and welfare of occupants of surrounding lands,
existing and anticipated traffic conditions, including parking facilities on
adjacent streets, and the effect on values of property in the surrounding area,
and the effect of the proposed use on the Comprehensive City Plan. If it shall
determine by resolution that the proposed use will not be detrimental to the
health, safety, or general welfare of the community nor will cause serious
traffic congestion or hazards, nor will seriously depreciate surrounding
property values, and that the same is in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this chapter and the Comprehensive City Plan, the City Council may
grant such permits and may impose safeguards and conditions therein. Any
conditional use permit shall apply only to the use stated on the permit.
   (D)   Denial. Conditional use permits may be denied by motion of the City
Council and such motion shall constitute a finding and determination by the
City Council that the conditions required for approval do not exist.
   (E)   Conditional use permits for home occupations. Conditional use permits
for home occupations shall be issued for a term of one year and for consecutive
periods of one year thereafter if upon review by the Planning Commission a
determination is made that the criteria of §
154.018 are still met. A public hearing as provided in division (B) is not
required to renew a conditional use permit, but is required to terminate a
conditional use permit.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99 
§ 154.179 FEES.
   Fees shall be payable at the time the applications are filed with the Zoning
Administrator and are not refundable unless the application is withdrawn prior
to referral to the Planning Commission or the City Council. There may be no fee
in the case of applications initiated in the public interest by members of the
City Council or by the Planning Commission. The City Council may establish
revision of fees contained in this section by resolution of the City Council,
published in the official newspaper.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.180 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Authorization. In accordance with the provisions of the Minnesota
Statutes, the City Council may, from time to time, adopt amendments to this
chapter.
   (B)   Initiation of amendment. The City Council or the Planning Commission
may, upon its own motion, initiate a request to amend the text or the
districting map of this chapter. Any person, persons, firm, or corporation
owning real estate may initiate a request to amend the district boundaries so
as to affect the said real estate or a larger parcel that shall include said
real estate. Any resident or owner of real estate in the city may initiate a
request to amend the text of this chapter.
   (C)   Application for amendment. All applications for amendments that are
initiated by the petition of owners of property or residents shall be filed
with the Zoning Administrator. When the application involves the changing of
zoning districts and boundaries thereof it shall be accompanied by a map or
plan showing the lands proposed to be changed and all lands within 350 feet of
the boundaries of the property proposed to be rezoned, together with the names
and addresses of the owners of the lands in such area.
   (D)   Referral to Planning Commission. All petitions for amendments shall be
referred to the Planning Commission which shall hold an official public
hearing.
   (E)   Hearing. At the time and place specified in such notice, the Planning
Commission shall meet and conduct a public hearing upon the proposed zoning
code amendment.
   (F)   Action by Planning Commission. If the request is for a district
change, notices shall be mailed to all owners of property according to the
submitted list of owners within 350 feet of the parcel included in the request
not less than ten days nor more than 30 days prior to the hearing. Failure of a
property owner to receive the notice shall not invalidate any such proceedings
as set forth within this chapter. The Planning Commission shall reach a
decision and make its recommendation to the City Council within 60 days of
filing of the request unless the applicant has granted a deferment of action in
writing, and if so, the City Council shall be so notified.
   (G)   Action by City Council. The City Council shall, upon receiving the
recommendation of the Planning Commission, place such request on the agenda of
its next regular meeting and decide the issue within 30 days. Notification to
the applicant shall be made of the City Council’s action.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
§ 154.181 APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Board designation. The Planning Commission shall serve as the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals.
   (B)   Applicability. An appeal shall only be applicable to an interpretation
of legislative intent of provisions of this chapter. Opinions and evaluations
as they pertain to the impact or result of a request are not subject to the
appeal procedure.
   (C)   Filing. An appeal from the ruling of an administrative officer of the
city shall be filed by the property owner or their agent with the Zoning
Administrator within 30 days after the making of the order being appealed.
   (D)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings and the
furtherance of the action being appealed unless it is certified to the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals, after the notice of appeal is filed, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate a stay would cause imminent peril to life and
property. In such case, the proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order that may be granted by a court of record on application, and
upon subsequent notice to the city.
   (E)   Procedure. The procedure for making such an appeal shall be as
follows:
      (1)   The property owner or their agent shall file with the Zoning
Administrator a notice of appeal stating the specific grounds upon which the
appeal is made. Said application may be accompanied by a reasonable fee as set
by the City Council.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff
person to prepare technical reports when appropriate and shall provide general
assistance in preparing a recommendation on the action of the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall make its decision by
resolution within 60 days from the date on which a completed application is
filed.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall serve a copy of the final order of
the Board upon the petitioner by mail.
   (F)   Appeals from the Board of Adjustments and Appeals. Any person or
persons, any private or public board, or taxpayer of the city aggrieved by any
decision of the Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall have the right to seek
review of the decision with the City Council, and any private or public board,
or taxpayer of the city aggrieved by any decision of the City Council shall
have the right to seek review of the decision with a court of record in the
manner provided by the laws of the State of Minnesota, and particularly M.S.
Chapter 462, as such statutes may be from time to time amended, supplemented,
or replaced.
(Ord. 1112.03, passed 8-25-03)
FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
§ 154.195 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the State of Minnesota
has, in M.S. Chapter 103F and Chapter 462 delegated the responsibility to local
government units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the City Council does ordain as follows:
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the city, are subject to periodic
inundation which results in potential loss of life, loss of property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures or flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This subchapter is based
upon a reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards which is consistent with
the standards established by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   National flood insurance program compliance. This chapter is
adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 Code of Federal Regulations Parts 59-78, as
amended, so as to maintain the community's eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in §
154.195(B)(1) by provisions contained herein.
(Ord. 1114.05, passed 10-24-05)
§ 154.196 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which subchapter applies. This subchapter shall apply to all
lands within the jurisdiction of the city shown on the official zoning map and/
or the attachments thereto as being located within the boundaries of the
Floodway, Flood Fringe Districts, or General Flood Plain Districts.
   (B)   Establishment of official zoning map. The official zoning map together
with all materials attached thereto is hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this subchapter. The attached material shall include the Flood
Insurance Study for Swift County, Minnesota And Incorporated Areas and the
Flood Insurance Rate Map panels numbered 27151C0264 C, 27151C0272 C, 27151C0278
C, 27151C0280 C, 27151C0285 C, and 27151C0286 C, all dated February 16, 2006,
and as developed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (C)   Anticipation of future annexations. The Flood Insurance Rate Map
panels adopted by reference into §
154.196(B) above may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the corporate
boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this subchapter. If any of
these floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after the date of
adoption of this subchapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands shall be
subject to the provisions of this subchapter immediately upon the date of
annexation into the city.
   (D)   Regulatory flood protection elevation. The regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot above the elevation of
the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the flood plain that result from designation of a floodway.
   (E)   Interpretation.
      (1)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
      (2)   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official zoning map. Where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the district as shown on the
official zoning map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict
between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions and there is a formal
appeal of the decision of the Zoning Administrator, the Board of Adjustment
shall make the necessary interpretation. All decisions will be based on
elevations on the regional (100-year) flood profile, the ground elevations that
existed on the site at the time the community adopted its initial floodplain
ordinance, and other available technical data. Persons contesting the location
of the district boundaries shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present
their case to the Board of Adjustment and to submit technical evidence.
   (F)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   (G)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This chapter does not imply that
areas outside the flood plain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of city or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
   (H)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   (I)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. See definition in §
154.002 for ACCESSORY USE OF STRUCTURE.
      BASEMENT.  Means any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having
its floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless
of the depth of excavation below ground level.
      CONDITIONAL USE. See definition in §
154.002 for Use, Conditional.
      EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that flood plain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
      FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the
stage of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry
areas.
      FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
      FLOOD FRINGE.  The portion of the flood plain outside of the floodway.
FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood
Insurance Study for Swift County Minnesota And Incorporated Areas.
      FLOOD PLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
      FLOOD PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
      FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse
and those portions of the adjoining flood plain which are reasonably required
to carry or store the regional flood discharge.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building's lowest floor.
      MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      OBSTRUCTION.  Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across,
or projecting into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory flood plain which
may impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in
itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
      PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. See §
154.002 for definition of Use, Principal.
      REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of
a stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a REACH.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. For the
purpose of this chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall be synonymous with
the term travel trailer/travel vehicle.
      REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD used
in a flood insurance study.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.  The REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION
ELEVATION shall be an elevation no lower than one foot above the elevation of
the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the flood plain that result from designation of a floodway.
      STRUCTURE. See §
154.002 for definition of STRUCTURE; recreational vehicles not meeting the
exemption criteria specified in §
154.203(C)(1) of this chapter and other similar items.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
where the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures that have
incurred SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
         (b)   Any alteration of an historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
"historic structure." For the purpose of this subchapter, historic structure
shall be defined in Code of Federal Regulations, Part 59.1.
      VARIANCE. Means a modification of a specific permitted development
standard required in an official control including this subchapter to allow an
alternative development standard not stated as acceptable in the official
control, but only as applied to a particular property for the purpose of
alleviating a hardship, practical difficulty or unique circumstances as defined
and elaborated upon in a community's respective planning and zoning enabling
legislation.
(Ord. 1114.05, passed 10-24-05)
§ 154.197 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Districts.
      (1)   Floodway District. The Floodway District shall include those areas
designated as floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
154.196(B).
      (2)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District shall include
those areas shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
154.196(B) as being within Zone AE but being located outside the floodway.
      (3)   General Flood Plain District. The General Flood Plain District
shall include those areas designated as Zone A or Zones AE, Zone AO, or Zone AH
without a floodway on the flood insurance rate map adopted in §
154.196(B).
   (B)   Compliance. No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted, or structurally
altered without full compliance with the terms of this subchapter and other
applicable regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this
subchapter. Within the Floodway, Flood Fringe, and General Flood Plain
Districts, all uses not listed as permitted uses or conditional uses in §§
154.198 through
154.200 that follow, respectively, shall be prohibited. In addition, a caution
is provided here that:
      (1)   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and certain
travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the general provisions of
this subchapter and specifically §
154.203.
      (2)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal
maintenance and repair, or repair after damage to existing nonconforming
structures and nonconforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the
general provisions of this chapter and specifically §
154.205.
      (3)   As-built elevations for elevated or flood proofed structures must
be certified by ground surveys and flood proofing techniques must be designed
and certified by registered professional engineer or architect as specified in
the general provisions of this chapter and specifically as stated in §
154.204 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1114.05, passed 10-24-05)
§ 154.198 FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW).
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting.
      (2)   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas, and airport
landing strips.
      (3)   Private and public golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges,
archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks,
wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves,
target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and single or
multiple purpose recreational trials.
      (4)   Residential lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas.
   (B)   Standards for floodway permitted uses.
      (1)   The use shall have a low flood damage potential.
      (2)   The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district if
one exists.
      (3)   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations
and shall not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or storage of
materials or equipment.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Structures accessory to the uses listed in §
154.198(A) above and the uses listed in §§
154.198(C)(2) through
154.198(C)(8).
      (2)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel, and other materials.
      (3)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves, and water control
structures.
      (4)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines, and
pipelines.
      (5)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials.
      (6)   Placement of fill or construction of fences.
      (7)   Recreational vehicles either on individual lots of record or in
existing or new subdivisions or commercial or condominium type campgrounds,
subject to the exemptions and provisions of §
154.203(C).
      (8)   Structural works for flood control such as levees, dikes and
floodwalls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures and levees or dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural
crops for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency
flood event.
   (D)   Standards for floodway conditional uses.
      (1)   All uses. No structure (temporary or permanent), fill (including
fill for roads and levees), deposit, obstruction, storage of materials or
equipment, or other uses may be allowed as a conditional use that will cause
any increase in the stage of the 100-year or regional flood or cause an
increase in flood damages in the reach or reaches affected.
      (2)   All floodway conditional uses shall be subject to the procedures
and standards contained in §
154.204(D).
      (3)   The conditional use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning
district if one exists.
      (4)   Fill.
         (a)   Fill, dredge spoil, and all other similar materials deposited or
stored in the flood plain shall be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, riprap or other acceptable method.
         (b)   Dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel operations shall not be
allowed in the floodway unless a long-term site development plan is submitted
which includes an erosion/sedimentation prevention element to the plan.
         (c)   As an alternative, and consistent with division (b), immediately
above, dredge spoil disposal and sand and gravel operations may allow
temporary, on-site storage of fill or other materials which would have caused
an increase to the stage of the 100-year or regional flood but only after the
governing body has received an appropriate plan which assures the removal of
the materials from the floodway based upon the flood warning time available.
The conditional use permit must be title registered with the property in the
office of the county recorder.
      (5)   Accessory structures.
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be designed for human habitation.
         (b)   Accessory structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and
placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow
of flood waters:
            1.   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow; and
            2.   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed
approximately on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally
dry flood proofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 flood proofing
classifications in the State Building Code. As an alternative, an accessory
structure may be flood proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 flood proofing
classification in the state building code provided the accessory structure
constitutes a minimal investment, does not exceed 500 square feet in size at
its largest projection, and for a detached garage, the detached garage must be
used solely for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All flood proofed
accessory structures must meet the following additional standards:
            1.   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed
to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls;
            2.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in a structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
flood proofed; and
            3.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two "automatic" openings in the outside walls of the
structure having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. There must be openings on at
least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings must be no
higher than one foot above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using
human intervention to open a garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy
this requirement for automatic openings.
      (6)   Storage of materials and equipment.
         (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
         (b)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
      (7)   Structural works for flood control that will change the course,
current or cross section of protected wetlands or public waters shall be
subject to the provisions of M.S. Chapter 103G. Community-wide structural works
for flood control intended to remove areas from the regulatory flood plain
shall not be allowed in the floodway.
      (8)   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway shall not
cause an increase to the 100-year or regional flood and the technical analysis
must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
(Ord. 1114.05, passed 10-24-05)
§ 154.199 FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF).
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or
structures listed as permitted uses in the underlying zoning use districts(s).
If no pre-existing, underlying zoning use districts exist, then any residential
or non residential structure or use of a structure or land shall be permitted
use in the Flood Fringe District provided such use does not constitute a public
nuisance. All permitted uses shall comply with the standards for Flood Fringe
District "Permitted Uses" listed in §
154.199(B) and the "Standards for all Flood Fringe Uses" listed in §
154.199(E).
   (B)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses.
      (1)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor including basement floor is at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures shall be no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend at such elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure erected thereon.
      (2)   As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures that
constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed 500 square feet at its
largest projection may be internally flood proofed in accordance with §
154.198(D)(5)(c).
      (3)   The cumulative placement of fill where at any one time in excess of
1,000 cubic yards of fill is located on the parcel shall be allowable only as a
conditional use, unless said fill is specifically intended to elevate a
structure in accordance with §
154.199(B)(1).
      (4)   The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on fill
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.   
      (5)   The provisions of §
154.199(E) shall apply.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Any structure that is not elevated on fill or flood
proofed in accordance with §
154.199(B)(1) and (2) and or any use of land that does not comply with the
standards in §
154.199(B)(3) and (4) shall only be allowable as a conditional use. An
application for a conditional use shall be subject to the standards and
criteria and evaluation procedures specified in §§
154.199(D) and (E) and
154.204(D).
   (D)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses.
      (1)   (a)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may
be utilized to elevate a structure's lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of stilts,
pilings, parallel walls, etc., or above-grade, enclosed areas such as crawl
spaces or tuck under garages. The base or floor of an enclosed area shall be
considered above-grade and not a structure's basement or lowest floor if:
            1.   The enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of the
structure;
            2.   It is designed to internally flood and is constructed with
flood resistant materials; and
            3.   It is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage.
         (b)   The above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject to the
following additional standards:
            1.   Design and certification. The structure's design and as-built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
as being in compliance with the general design standards of the state building
code, and specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation or be designed to prevent flood water
from entering or accumulating within these components during times of flooding.
            2.   Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Above-
grade, fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally flood and the design plans must stipulate:
               a.   A minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
flooding is to be used as a flood proofing technique. There shall be a minimum
of two openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all
openings shall be no higher than one-foot above grade. The automatic openings
shall have a minimum net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot subject to flooding unless a registered professional engineer or architect
certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The automatic openings may be
equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices provided
that they permit the automatic entry and exit of food waters without any form
of human intervention; and
               b.   That the enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the state
building code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
      (2)   Basements, as defined by §
154.196(H), shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   Residential basement construction shall not be allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (b)   Non-residential basements may be allowed below the regulatory
flood protection elevation provided the basement is structurally dry flood
proofed in accordance with §
154.199(D)(3).
      (3)   All areas of non-residential structures including basements to be
placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be flood proofed
in accordance with the structurally dry flood proofing classifications in the
state building code. Structurally dry flood proofing must meet the FP-1 or FP-
2 flood proofing classification in the state building code and this shall
require making the structure watertight with the walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of
buoyancy. Structures flood proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification shall not
be permitted.
      (4)   When at any one time more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other
similar material is located on a parcel for such activities as on-site storage,
landscaping, sand and gravel operations, landfills, roads, dredge spoil
disposal or construction of flood control works, an erosion/sedimentation
control plan must be submitted unless the community is enforcing a state
approved shoreland management ordinance. In the absence of a state approved
shoreland ordinance, the plan must clearly specify methods to be used to
stabilize the fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the 100-year or
regional flood event. The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the governing
body. The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal of the
material from the flood plain if adequate flood warning time exists.
      (5)   Storage of materials and equipment.
         (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
         (b)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
      (6)   The provisions of §
154.199(E) shall also apply.
   (E)   Standards for all flood fringe uses.
      (1)   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or above
an elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation. If a variance to this requirement is granted, the Board of
Adjustment must specify limitations on the period of use or occupancy of the
structure for times of flooding and only after determining that adequate flood
warning time and local flood emergency response procedures exist.
      (2)   Commercial uses. Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad
tracks, and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. However, a permit for such facilities to be used by the
employees or the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood
warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth and velocity such that when multiplying the depth (in
feet) times velocity (in feet per second) the product number exceeds four upon
occurrence of the regional flood.
      (3)   Manufacturing and industrial uses. Measures shall be taken to
minimize interference with normal plant operations especially along streams
having protracted flood durations. Certain accessory land uses such as yards
and parking lots may be at lower elevations subject to requirements set out in
§
154.199(E)(2) above. In considering permit applications, due consideration
shall be given to needs of an industry whose business requires that it be
located in flood plain areas.
      (4)   Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for
removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA's
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
      (5)   Flood plain developments shall not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining flood plain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system where a floodway or other encroachment limit has not been
specified on the official zoning map.
      (6)   Standards for recreational vehicles are contained in §
154.203(C).
      (7)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
(Ord. 1114.05, passed 10-24-05)
§ 154.200 GENERAL FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permissible uses.
      (1)   The uses listed in §
154.198(A) shall be permitted uses.
      (2)   All other uses shall be subject to the floodway/flood fringe
evaluation criteria pursuant to §§
154.200(B),
154.198 shall apply if the proposed use in the Floodway District and §
154.199 shall apply if the proposed use is in the Flood Fringe District.
   (B)   Procedures for floodway and flood fringe determinations within the
General Flood Plain District.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit or other approval
within the General Flood Plain District, the applicant shall be required to
furnish such of the following information as is deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator for the determination of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and whether the proposed use is within the Floodway or Flood Fringe
District.
         (a)   A typical valley cross-section(s) showing the channel of the
stream, elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-
sectional areas to be occupied by the proposed development, and high water
information.
         (b)   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the
ground, pertinent structure, fill or storage elevations, the size, location,
and spatial arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site,
and the location and elevation of streets.
         (c)   Photographs showing existing land uses, vegetation upstream and
downstream, and soil types.
         (d)   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow
line of the stream for at least 500 feet in either direction from the proposed
development.
      (2)   The applicant shall be responsible to submit one copy of the above
information to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance in determining whether the proposed use is in the Floodway
or Flood Fringe District and to determine the regulatory flood protection
elevation. Procedures consistent with Minnesota Regulations 1983, Parts
6120.5000 - 6120.6200 and 44 Code of Federal Regulations Part 65 shall be
followed in this expert evaluation. The designated engineer or expert is
strongly encouraged to discuss the proposed technical evaluation methodology
with the respective Department of Natural Resources' Area Hydrologist prior to
commencing the analysis. The designated engineer or expert shall:
         (a)   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional flood.
         (b)   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood based
upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas.
         (c)   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the regional
flood without increasing flood stages more than 0.5 foot. A lesser stage
increase than 0.5 foot shall be required if, as a result of the additional
stage increase, increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of
encroachment on both sides of the stream within the reach shall be assumed in
computing floodway boundaries.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall present the technical evaluation and
findings of the designated engineer or expert to the governing body. The
governing body must formally accept the technical evaluation and the
recommended Floodway and/or Flood Fringe District boundary or deny the permit
application. The governing body, prior to official action, may submit the
application and all supporting data and analyses to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, the Department of Natural Resources or the Planning
Commission for review and comment. Once the Floodway and Flood Fringe District
boundaries have been determined, the governing body shall refer the matter back
to the Zoning Administrator who shall process the permit application consistent
with the applicable provisions of §§
154.198 and
154.199.
(Ord. 1114.05, passed 10-24-05)
§ 154.201 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Review criteria. No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable for
the reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. All lots within the flood plain districts shall be able to contain
a building site outside of the Floodway District at or above the regulatory
flood protection elevation. All subdivisions shall have water and sewage
treatment facilities that comply with the provisions of this subchapter and
have road access both to the subdivision and to the individual building sites
no lower than two feet below the regulatory flood protection elevation. For all
subdivisions in the flood plain, the Floodway and Flood Fringe District
boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the required
elevation of all access roads shall be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
   (B)   Floodway/flood fringe determinations in the General Flood Plain
District.  In the General Flood Plain District, applicants shall provide the
information required in §
154.200(B) to determine the 100-year flood elevation, the Floodway and Flood
Fringe District boundaries and the regulatory flood protection elevation for
the subdivision site.
   (C)   Removal of special flood hazard area designation. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the
special flood hazard area designation for certain structures properly elevated
on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA's requirements incorporate
specific fill compaction and side slope protection standards for multi-
structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should be investigated
prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of special flood hazard
area designation will be requested.
(Ord. 1114.05, passed 10-24-05)
§ 154.202 PUBLIC UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS, AND BRIDGES.
   (A)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the flood plain
shall be flood proofed in accordance with the State Building Code or elevated
to above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (B)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and bridges
to be located within the flood plain shall comply with §§
154.198 and
154.199. Elevation to the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be
provided where failure or interruption of these transportation facilities would
result in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities are
essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or auxiliary roads or
railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where failure or interruption
of transportation services would not endanger the public health or safety.
   (C)   On-site sewage treatment and water supply systems. Where public
utilities are not provided:
      (1)   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
      (2)   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into flood waters and they shall not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding. Any sewage treatment
system designed in accordance with the state's current statewide standards for
on-site sewage treatment systems shall be determined to be in compliance with
this section.
(Ord. 1114.05, passed 10-24-05)
§ 154.203 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS AND PLACEMENT OF
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured
home parks shall be subject to the provisions placed on subdivisions by §
154.201.
   (B)   The placement of new or replacement manufactured homes in existing
manufactured home parks or on individual lots of record that are located in
flood plain districts will be treated as a new structure and may be placed only
if elevated in compliance with §
154.199. If vehicular road access for pre-existing manufactured home parks is
not provided in accordance with §
154.199(E)(1), then replacement manufactured homes will not be allowed until
the property owner(s) develops a flood warning emergency plan acceptable to the
governing body.
      (1)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
   (C)   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria
specified in §
154.203(C)(1) below shall be subject to the provisions of this subchapter and
as specifically spelled out in §
154.203(C)(3) and (4) below.
      (1)   Exemption. Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of
this subchapter if they are placed in any of the areas listed in §
154.203(C)(2) below and further they meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Have current licenses required for highway use.
         (b)   Are highway ready meaning on wheels or the internal jacking
system, are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks and the
recreational vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it.
         (c)   The recreational vehicle and associated use must be permissible
in any pre-existing, underlying zoning use district.
      (2)   Areas exempted for placement of recreational vehicles.
         (a)   Individual lots or parcels of record.
         (b)   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds.
         (c)   Existing condominium type associations.
      (3)   Recreational vehicle exempted in §
154.203(C)(1) lose this exemption when development occurs on the parcel
exceeding $500 for a structural addition to the recreational vehicle or
exceeding $500 for an accessory structure such as a garage or storage building.
The recreational vehicle and all additions and accessory structures will then
be treated as a new structure and shall be subject to the elevation/flood
proofing requirements and the use of land restrictions specified in §§
154.198 and
154.199. There shall be no development or improvement on the parcel or
attachment to the recreational vehicle that hinders the removal of the
recreational vehicle to a flood free location should flooding occur.
      (4)   New commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds and new
residential type subdivisions and condominium associations and the expansion of
any existing similar use exceeding five units or dwelling sites shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   Any new or replacement recreational vehicle will be allowed in
the Floodway or Flood Fringe Districts provided said recreational vehicle and
its contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood protection elevation
and proper elevated road access to the site exists in accordance with §
154.199(E)(1). No fill placed in the floodway to meet the requirements of this
section shall increase flood stages of the 100-year or regional flood.
         (b)   All new or replacement recreational vehicles not meeting the
criteria of division (a) above may, as an alternative, be allowed as a
conditional use if in accordance with the following provisions and the
provisions of §
154.204(D). The applicant must submit an emergency plan for the safe evacuation
of all vehicles and people during the 100 year flood. Said plan shall be
prepared by a registered engineer or other qualified individual, shall
demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation,
and shall demonstrate the provisions of §
154.203(C)(1)(a) and (b) will be met. All attendant sewage and water facilities
for new or replacement recreational vehicles must be protected or constructed
so as to not be impaired or contaminated during times of flooding in accordance
with §
154.202(C).
(Ord. 1114.05, passed 10-24-05)
§ 154.204 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator. A Zoning Administrator or other official
designated by the governing body shall administer and enforce this subchapter.
If the Zoning Administrator finds a violation of the provisions of this
subchapter the Zoning Administrator shall notify the person responsible for
such violation in accordance with the procedures stated in §
154.999.
   (B)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Permit required. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator in
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter shall be secured prior to the
erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance
and repair), or alteration of any building, structure, or portion thereof;
prior to the use or change of use of a building, structure, or land; prior to
the construction of a dam, fence, or on-site septic system; prior to the change
or extension of a nonconforming use; prior to the repair of a structure that
has been damaged by flood, fire, tornado, or any other source; and prior to the
placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage of materials or
equipment within the flood plain.
      (2)   Application for permit. Application for a permit shall be made in
duplicate to the Zoning Administrator on forms furnished by the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following where applicable: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill or storage of
materials; and the location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
      (3)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a permit or processing
an application for a conditional use permit or variance, the Zoning
Administrator shall determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary
state and federal permits.
      (4)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or
nonconforming use. It shall be unlawful to use, occupy, or permit the use or
occupancy of any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted, altered, or enlarged in its use or structure until
a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning
Administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (5)   Construction and use to be as provided on applications, plans,
permits, variances and certificates of zoning compliance. Permits, conditional
use permits, or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
approved plans and applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and
construction set forth in such approved plans and applications, and no other
use, arrangement, or construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at
variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter,
and punishable as provided by §
154.999.
      (6)   Certification. The applicant shall be required to submit
certification by a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or
registered land surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. Flood
proofing measures shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
registered architect.
      (7)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator shall
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
flood plain. The Zoning Administrator shall also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures or alterations and additions to structures are
flood proofed.
      (8)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. The Zoning Administrator
shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the Commissioner
of the Department of Natural Resources prior to the community authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has applied for a
permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to Minnesota Statute,
Chapter 103G, this shall suffice as adequate notice to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources. A copy of said notification shall also be submitted to the
Chicago Regional Office of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
      (9)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease the
100-year flood elevation. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six
months after the date of such supporting information becomes available, the
Zoning Administrator shall notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the
changes by submitting a copy of said technical or scientific data.
   (C)   Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct of
business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on such Boards by State
law.
      (2)   Administrative review. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and
decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by an administrative official in the
enforcement or administration of this subchapter.
      (3)   Variances. The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon appeal in
specific cases such relief or variance from the terms of this subchapter as
will not be contrary to the public interest and only for those circumstances
such as hardship, practical difficulties or circumstances unique to the
property under consideration, as provided for in the respective enabling
legislation for planning and zoning for cities or counties as appropriate. In
the granting of such variance, the Board of Adjustment shall clearly identify
in writing the specific conditions that existed consistent with the criteria
specified in this subchapter, any other zoning regulations in the community,
and in the respective enabling legislation that justified the granting of the
variance. No variance shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses
prohibited in that district, permit a lower degree of flood protection than the
regulatory flood protection elevation for the particular area, or permit
standards lower than those required by state law. The following additional
variance criteria of the Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued by a community within any
designated regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge would result.
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued by a community upon (i) a showing
of good and sufficient cause, (ii) a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and (iii) a
determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Hearings.  Upon filing the Board of Adjustment of an appeal from a
decision of the Zoning Administrator, or an application for a variance, the
Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing and give due
notice to the parties in interest as specified by law. The Board of Adjustment
shall submit by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the
application for proposed variances sufficiently in advance so that the
Commissioner will receive at least ten days notice of the hearing.
      (5)   Decisions. The Board of Adjustment shall arrive at a decision on
such appeal or variance within 60 days from the date a completed application is
filed. In passing upon an appeal, the Board of Adjustment may, so long as such
action is in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter, reverse or
affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Administrator or other public official. It shall
make its decision in writing setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons
for its decisions. In granting a variance the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards such as those specified in §
154.204(D)(6), which are in conformity with the purposes of this subchapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
subchapter punishable under §
154.999. A copy of all decisions granting variances shall be forwarded by mail
to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of such action.
      (6)   Appeals. Appeals from any decision of the Board of Adjustment may
be made, and as specified in this community's official controls and also by
Minnesota Statutes.
      (7)   Flood insurance notice and record keeping. The Zoning Administrator
shall notify the applicant for a variance that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the 100-year or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property. Such notification shall be maintained
with a record of all variance actions. A community shall maintain a record of
all variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report
such variances issued in its annual or biennial report submitted to the
Administrator of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The Planning Commission shall make a finding of fact
and make a recommendation to the City Council, and then the City Council shall
hear and decide applications for conditional uses permissible under this
subchapter. Applications shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator who
shall forward the application to the Planning Commission for initial
consideration and recommendation and then forwarded to the City Council.
      (1)   Hearings. Upon filing with the city an application for a
conditional use permit, the city shall submit by mail to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources a copy of the application for proposed conditional use
sufficiently in advance so that the Commissioner will receive at least ten days
notice of the hearing.
      (2)   Decisions. The City Council shall arrive at a decision on a
conditional use within 60 days sixty from the date a completed application is
filed. In granting a conditional use permit the City Council shall prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards, in addition to those specified in §
154.204(D)(6), which are in conformity with the purposes of this subchapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the conditional use permit is granted, shall be deemed a violation
of this subchapter punishable under §
154.999. A copy of all decisions granting conditional use permits shall be
forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of
such action.
      (3)   Procedures to be followed by the City Council in passing on
conditional use permit applications within all flood plain districts.
         (a)   Require the applicant to furnish such of the following
information and additional information as deemed necessary by the Planning
Commission and the City Council for determining the suitability of the
particular site for the proposed use:
            1.   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions, and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, flood proofing measures, and the
relationship of the above to the location of the stream channel; and
            2.   Specifications for building construction and materials, flood
proofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
         (b)   Transmit one copy of the information described in subsection (a)
to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for technical
assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed project in relation to
flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of flood damage to the use, the
adequacy of the plans for protection, and other technical matters.
         (c)   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer
or expert, the Planning Commission shall examine and recommend and the City
Council shall determine the specific flood hazard at the site and evaluate the
suitability of the proposed use in relation to the flood hazard.
      (4)   Factors upon which the decision of the City Council shall be based.
In passing upon conditional use applications, the City Council shall consider
all relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments.
         (b)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others or they may block bridges, culverts or other
hydraulic structures.
         (c)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability
of these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
         (d)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
         (e)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community.
         (f)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location.
         (g)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use.
         (h)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
         (i)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and flood plain management program for the area.
         (j)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         (k)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site.
         (l)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
subchapter.
      (5)   Time for acting on application. The City Council shall act on an
application in the manner described above within 60 days from receiving a
completed application, except that where additional information is required
pursuant to §
154.204(D)(3). The City Council render a written decision within 60 days from
the receipt of such additional information.
      (6)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. Upon consideration
of the factors listed above and the purpose of this subchapter, the City
Council shall attach such conditions to the granting of conditional use permits
as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this subchapter. Such
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities.
         (b)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation.
         (c)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
         (d)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees, and other protective measures.
         (e)   Flood proofing measures, in accordance with the State Building
Code and this chapter. The applicant shall submit a plan or document certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect that the flood proofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and
associated flood factors for the particular area.
(Ord. 1114.05, passed 10-24-05)
§ 154.205 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this subchapter but which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter may be continued subject to
the following conditions. Historic structures, as defined in §
154.196(H) of this subchapter, shall be subject to the provisions of §
154.205(A)(1)-(5) of this subchapter.
      (1)   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged, or altered in a
way that increases its nonconformity.
      (2)   Any structural alteration or addition to a nonconforming structure
or nonconforming use which would result in increasing the flood damage
potential of that structure or use shall be protected to the Regulatory Flood
Protection Elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or flood
proofing techniques (i.e. FP-1 thru FP-4 flood proofing classifications)
allowable in the State Building Code, except as further restricted in §
154.205(A)(3) and (6) below.
      (3)   The cost of any structural alterations or additions to any
nonconforming structure over the life of the structure shall not exceed 50% of
the market value of the structure unless the conditions of this section are
satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and additions constructed
since the adoption of the community's initial flood plain controls must be
calculated into today's current cost which will include all costs such as
construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all manpower or labor.
If the current cost of all previous and proposed alterations and additions
exceeds 50%t of the current market value of the structure, then the structure
must meet the standards of §§
154.198 and
154.199 for new structures depending upon whether the structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively.
      (4)   If any nonconforming use is discontinued for 12-consecutive months,
any future use of the building premises shall conform to this subchapter. The
Assessor shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing if instances of
nonconforming uses that have been discontinued for a period of 12 months.
      (5)   If any nonconforming use or structure is substantially damaged, as
defined in §
154.196(H), it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this subchapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new
uses or new structures in §§
154.198,
154.199 or
154.200 will apply depending upon whether the use or structure is in the
Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Flood Plain District, respectively.
      (6)   If a substantial improvement occurs, as defined in §
154.196(H), from any combination of a building addition to the outside
dimensions of the existing building or a rehabilitation, reconstruction,
alteration, or other improvement to the inside dimensions of an existing
nonconforming building, then the building addition (as required by §
154.205(A)(2) above) and the existing nonconforming building must meet the
requirements of §§
154.198 or
154.199 for new structures, depending upon whether the structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively.
(Ord. 1114.05, passed 10-24-05)
§ 154.206 AMENDMENTS.
   The flood plain designation on the Official Zoning Map shall not be removed
from flood plain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error
or that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory
flood protection elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the flood plain.
Special exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the Commissioner of Natural
Resources if he or she determines that, through other measures, lands are
adequately protected for the intended use.
(Ord. 1114.05, passed 10-24-05)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this subchapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. Such actions
may include but are not limited to:
      (1)   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning
Administrator and local government may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including but not limited to prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to the
extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      (2)   When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought to
the attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources' and Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office along with
the Community's plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this subchapter and all other official controls and the nature
and extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/
or use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the community. If the construction or development is
already completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either:
         (a)   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
         (b)   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
      (4)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this subchapter and
shall be prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also upon the
lapse of the specified response period notify the landowner to restore the land
to the condition which existed prior to the violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1114.05, passed 10-24-05)
CHAPTER 155: HELIPORT ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Purpose and authority
   
155.02   Short title
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Air space obstruction zoning
   
155.05   Land use safety zoning
   
155.06   Heliport map
   
155.07   Nonconforming uses
   
155.08   Permits
   
155.09   Variances
   
155.10   Hazard marking and lighting
   
155.11   Heliport Zoning Administrator
   
155.12   Board of Adjustment
   
155.13   Appeals
   
155.14   Judicial review
   
155.15   Conflicts
 
   
155.99   Penalties
§ 155.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The City of Benson and Swift County Joint Heliport Zoning Board, created and
established by joint action of the City Council of the City of Benson, the
Board of Commissioners of Swift County, and the Town Board of Torning Township,
pursuant to the provisions and authority of M.S. § 360.063, hereby finds and
declares that:
   (A)   A heliport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of the
Benson Heliport, and property or occupants of land in its vicinity; and also if
of the obstructive type, in effect reduces the size of the area available for
the landing, takeoff, and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to destroy or
impair the utility of said heliport and the public investment therein.
   (B)   The creation or establishment of a heliport hazard is a public
nuisance and an injury to the region served by the Benson Heliport.
   (C)   For the protection of the public health, safety, order, convenience,
prosperity, and general welfare, and for the promotion of the most appropriate
use of land, it is necessary to prevent the creation or establishment of
heliport hazards.
   (D)   The prevention of these heliport hazards should be accomplished, to
the extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power without
compensation.
   (E)   The prevention of the creation or establishment of heliport hazards,
and the elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation, or marking and lighting
of existing heliport hazards are public purposes for which political
subdivisions may raise and expend public funds.
   (F)   The heliport is an essential public facility that serves an important
public transportation role and provides a public good.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Benson Heliport Zoning Chapter." Those
sections of land affected by this chapter are indicated in Exhibit "A", which
is attached to Ordinance 1146.15.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   APPROACH/DEPARTURE PATH. The flight track helicopters follow when landing at
or departing from the heliport.
   APPROACH SURFACE. Begins at each end of the primary surface with the same
width as the primary surface, and extends outward and upward for a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet, where its width is 500 feet. The slope of the approach
surface is 8:1.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of
Transportation.
   CONFORMING USE. Any structure, tree, or object of natural growth, or use of
land that complies with all the applicable provisions of this chapter or any
amendment to this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used as a residence or
sleeping place of one or more persons.
   FINAL APPROACH AND TAKEOFF AREA or FATO. The defined area over which the
pilot completes the final phase of the approach to a hover or a landing and
from which the pilot initiates takeoff.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be NAVD88.
   HELIPORT. The Benson Heliport located in Lot 2, Block One, Benson Industrial
Park.
   HELIPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the center of the heliport
which is established to be 1033.0 (NAVD88).
   HELIPORT HAZARD. Any structure, tree, or use of land which obstructs the air
space required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at the heliport; and any use of land which is hazardous
to persons or property because of its proximity to the heliport.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, tree, natural growth, or land
use which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an amendment
hereto.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or body politic, and includes a trustee, receiver,
assignee, administrator, executor, guardian, or other representative.
   PLANNED. Refers only to those proposed future heliport developments that are
so indicated on a planning document having the approval of the Federal Aviation
Administration, Minnesota Department of Transportation Office of Aeronautics,
and the city.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. The area that coincides in size and shape with the
designated final approach and takeoff (FATO). This surface is a horizontal
plane at the elevation of the established heliport elevation.
   PRIOR PERMISSION REQUIRED (PPR) HELIPORT. A heliport developed for exclusive
use of the owner and persons authorized by the owner and about which the owner
and operator ensure all authorized pilots are thoroughly knowledgeable. These
features include, but are not limited to: approach/departure path
characteristics, preferred heading, facility limitations, lighting, obstacles
in the area, and size and weight capacity of the facility.
   SLOPE. An incline from the horizontal expressed in an arithmetic ratio of
horizontal magnitude to vertical magnitude.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e13943e1292aa3ca30139cad9ee95f3fac2e79a9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6378.jpg]
 
   Slope = 3:1 = 3 feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical.
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by man, including, but without
limitations, buildings, towers, smokestacks, earth formations, and overhead
transmission lines.
   TOUCHDOWN AND LIFTOFF AREA or TLOF. A load-bearing, paved area centered on
the FATO, on which the helicopter lands and/or takes off.
   TRANSITIONAL SURFACES. Imaginary surfaces that extend outward and upward
from the lateral boundaries of the primary surface and from the approach
surfaces at a slope of 2:1 for a distance of 250 feet measured horizontally
from the centerline of the primary and approach surfaces.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   WATER SURFACES. Shall have the same meaning as land for the establishment of
protected zones.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.04 AIR SPACE OBSTRUCTION ZONING.
   (A)   Air space zones. In order to carry out the purpose of this chapter, as
set forth above, the following air space zones are hereby established: primary
zone, approach zone, and transitional zone, and whose locations and dimensions
are as follows:
      (1)   Primary zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
primary surface that coincides in size and shape with the Final Approach and
Takeoff Area (FATO).
      (2)   Approach zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
approach surface longitudinally centered on the extended centerline of each
approach surface. The inner edge of the approach surface is at the same width
and elevation as, and coincides with, the end of the primary surface. The
approach surface inclines upward and outward at a slope of 8:1 and extends for
a distance of 4,000 feet. The approach zone expands uniformly to a width of 500
feet.
      (3)   Transitional zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary surface extending upward and outward from the lateral boundaries of
the primary surface and the approach surface at a slope of 2:1 for a distance
of 250 feet measured horizontally from the centerline of the primary and
approach surfaces.
   (B)   Height restrictions. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, and
except as necessary and incidental to heliport operations, no structure or tree
shall be constructed, altered, maintained, or allowed to grow in any air space
zone created in §
155.05(A) so as to project above any of the imaginary air space surfaces
described in said §
155.04(A) hereof.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.05 LAND USE SAFETY ZONING.
   (A)   Safety zone boundaries. In order to carry out the purpose of this
chapter, as set forth above, to restrict those uses which may be hazardous to
the operational safety of aircraft operating to and from the Benson Heliport,
and, furthermore, to limit population and building density in the heliport
approach areas, thereby creating sufficient open space to protect life and
property in case of an accident, there are hereby created and established the
following land use safety zones:
      (1)   Safety zone A. All land in the primary and approach zones, as
defined in §
155.04(A)(1) and (2) hereof.
      (2)   Safety zone B. All land in the transition zones, as defined in §
155.04(A)(3) hereof.
   (B)   Use restrictions.
      (1)   General. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth
in §
155.04(B), no use shall be made of any land in any of the safety zones defined
in §
155.05(A) which creates or causes interference with the operations of radio or
electronic facilities on the heliport or with radio or electronic
communications between the heliport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots
to distinguish between heliport lights and other lights, results in glare in
the eyes of pilots using the heliport, impairs visibility in the vicinity of
the heliport, or otherwise endangers the landing, taking off, or maneuvering of
aircraft.
      (2)   Zones A and B. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set
forth in §
155.04(B) and to the general restrictions contained in §
155.05(B), any proposals for above-ground improvements, including structures,
trees and other such natural growth, or land use, proposed in areas designated
as Zone A and/or Zone B shall be submitted to the Heliport Zoning Administrator
for review prior to commencement of the project. The Heliport Zoning
Administrator shall determine whether the project is permitted or would be
required to obtain a variance prior to commencement. The proposed project, if
allowed, shall be permitted in accordance with §
155.08.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.06 HELIPORT MAP.
   The several zones herein established are shown on the Benson Heliport Zoning
Map consisting of one sheet, prepared by Landteam, Inc., and dated January 1,
2015, attached hereto and made a part hereof, which map, together with such
amendments thereto as may from time to time be made, and all notations,
references, elevations, data, zone boundaries, and other information thereon,
shall be and the same is hereby adopted as part of this chapter.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.07 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other changes or
alterations of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of
the effective date of this chapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuance
of any nonconforming use. Nothing herein contained shall require any change in
the construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the
construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.08 PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Future uses. Except as specifically provided in division (A)(2)
hereunder, no material change shall be made in the use of land and no structure
shall be erected, altered, or otherwise established in any zone hereby created
unless a permit therefore shall have been applied for and granted by the Zoning
Administrator, hereinafter provided for. Each application for a permit shall
indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient
particularity to permit it to conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If
such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted.
      (2)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed as permitting or
intending to permit any construction, alteration, or growth of any structure or
tree in excess of any of the height limitations established by this chapter as
set forth in §
155.04 and the land use limitations set forth in §
155.05.
   (B)   Existing uses. Before any existing use or structure may be replaced,
substantially altered or repaired, or rebuilt within any zone established
herein, a permit must be secured authorizing such replacement, change, or
repair. No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or
creation of a heliport hazard or permit a nonconforming use, structure, or tree
to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date
of this chapter or any amendments thereto, or than it is when the application
for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit
shall be granted.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Zoning
Administrator determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been
abandoned or more than 80% torn down, deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall
be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable
height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations. Whether
application is made for a permit under this division or not, the Zoning
Administrator may order the owner of the abandoned or partially destroyed
nonconforming structure, at his or her own expense, to lower, remove,
reconstruct, or equip the same in the manner necessary to conform to the
provisions of this chapter. In the event the owner of the nonconforming
structure shall neglect or refuse to comply with such order for ten days after
receipt of written notice of such order, the Zoning Administrator may, by
appropriate legal action, proceed to have the abandoned or partially destroyed
nonconforming structure lowered, removed, reconstructed, or equipped and assess
the cost and expense thereof against the land on which the structure is or was
located. Unless such an assessment is paid within 90 days from the service of
notice thereof on the owner of the land, the sum shall bear interest at the
rate of 8% per annum from the date the cost and expense is incurred until paid,
and shall be collected in the same manner as are general taxes.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.09 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure,
permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this chapter may apply to the Board of
Adjustment, hereinafter provided for, for a variance from such regulations. If
a person submits an application for a variance by certified mail to the Airport
Zoning Administrator and the Board fails to grant or deny the variance within
four months after the last member receives the application, the variance shall
be deemed to be granted by the Board. When the variance is granted by reason of
the failure of the Board to act on the variance, the person receiving the
variance shall notify the Board and the Commissioner, by certified mail, that
the variance has been granted. The applicant shall include a copy of the
original application for the variance with this notice to the Commissioner. The
variance shall be effective 60 days after this notice is received by the
Commissioner subject to any action taken by the Commissioner pursuant to M.S. §
360.063, Subd. 6a. Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that
a literal application or enforcement of the regulations would result in
practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, and relief granted would not be
contrary to the public interest but do substantial justice and be in accordance
with the spirit of this chapter provided any variance so allowed may be subject
to any reasonable conditions that the Board or Commissioner may deem necessary
to effectuate the purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment may request review of a variance application
by the MN/DOT Heliport Zoning Director prior to making a decision.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.10 HAZARD MARKING AND LIGHTING.
   (A)   Nonconforming uses. The owner of any nonconforming structure or tree
is hereby required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance
thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator, to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the
heliport the presence of such heliport hazards. Such markers and lights shall
be installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the city.
   (B)   Permits and variances. Any permit or variance deemed advisable to
effectuate the purpose of this chapter and be reasonable in the circumstances,
and granted by the Zoning Administrator or Board, shall require the owner of
the structure or tree in question, at his or her own expense, to install,
operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to
indicate to pilots the presence of an heliport hazard.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.11 HELIPORT ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the City Manager to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be
made to the City Manager upon a form furnished by them. Permit applications
shall be promptly considered and granted or denied by them in accordance with
the regulations prescribed herein. Variance applications shall be forthwith
transmitted by the City Manager for action by the Board hereinafter provided
for.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.12 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members
appointed by the City of Benson and Swift County Joint Heliport Zoning Board,
and each shall serve for a term of three years and until his or her successor
is duly appointed and qualified. Of the members first appointed, one shall be
appointed for a term of one year, two for a term of two years, and two for a
term of three years. Upon their appointment, the members shall select a
Chairperson to act at the pleasure of the Board. Members shall be removable by
the Joint Heliport Zoning Board for cause, upon written charges, after a public
hearing.
   (B)   Powers. The Board of Adjustment shall have and exercise the following
powers:
      (1)   Hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Administrator in the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   Hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be required to
pass.
      (3)   Hear and decide specific variances.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and
procedure in harmony with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the Board
of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other
times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson, or in his or
her absence the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the
zoning administrator and shall be a public record.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of facts and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order,
requirement, decision, or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter,
or to effect any variation in this chapter.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.13 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the
Zoning Administrator made in his or her administration of this chapter may
appeal to the Board of Adjustment. Such appeals may also be made by any
governing body of a municipality, county, or heliport zoning board, which is of
the opinion that a decision of the Zoning Administrator is an improper
application of this chapter as it concerns such governing body or board.
   (B)   All appeals hereunder must be commenced within 30 days of the Zoning
Administrator's decision, by filing with the Zoning Administrator a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken. In addition, any person aggrieved, or
any taxpayer affected by any decisions of the Zoning Administrator made in his
or her administration of this chapter who desires to appeal such decision shall
submit an application for a variance, by certified mail, to the members of the
Board of Adjustment in the manner set forth in M.S. § 360.068, Subd. 2.
   (C)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of
Adjustment after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of
the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed except by order of the Board of Adjustment on notice to the Zoning
Administrator and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person, by agent, or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination, as may be appropriate under the
circumstances, and to that end shall have all the powers of the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.14 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment, or any governing body of a municipality, county, or heliport
zoning board, which is of the opinion that a decision of the Board of
Adjustment is illegal may present to the District Court of Swift County a
verified petition setting forth that the decision or action is illegal, in
whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition
shall be presented to the court within 30 days after the decision is filed in
the office of the Board of Adjustment. The petitioner must exhaust the remedies
provided in this chapter before availing himself or herself of the right to
petition a court as provided by this section.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.15 CONFLICTS.
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
regulation shall govern and prevail.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
§ 155.99 PENALTIES.
   Every person who shall construct, establish, substantially change, alter or
repair any existing structure or use, or permit the growth of any tree without
having complied with the provision of this chapter or who, having been granted
a permit or variance under the provisions of this chapter, shall construct,
establish, substantially change or substantially alter or repair any existing
growth or structure or permit the growth of any tree, except as permitted by
such permit or variance, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days or
by both. Each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. The Heliport Zoning Administrator may enforce all provisions of this
chapter through such proceedings for injunctive relief and other relief as may
be proper under the laws of M.S. § 360.073 and other applicable law.
(Ord. 1146.15, passed 11-16-15)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
100-     -24         Southside Addition
101      7-16-46     Tatge 1st Addition
102      6-7-48      Homewood First, Section 8, S½, NW¼
104      9-6-50      Pt. Tagte 2nd Addition
105      8-22-56     Section 8, Pt. S½, NW ¼
105A     8-22-56     Section 5, Pt. SW¼, SE¼ (Repealed)
105B     1-9-57      Repeals Ord. 105A, Sec. 5, SW¼, SE¼
106      11-12-59    Section 5, SW¼, NE¼
108      11-12-59    Section 5, NW¼, SE¼
112      2-25-66     Pt. Section 6, Section 1
114      9-21-66     Pt. Section 6
115      10-26-66    Pt. Section 5
116      10-26-66    Pt. Section 1, 5 acres, Bob Lageson
117      1-11-67     Section 5, NW¼, SE¼
122      6-6-68      Section 7, 0.7 acres, NW¼, NE¼ (car wash)
127      8-21-69     Repealed by Ord. 128
128      11-6-69     Section 1, Pt. NE¼, Sec. 6 - Sec. 31
129      12-10-70    Section 5, SW¼, SE¼
130      12-17-70    Section 5, SW¼, NE¼, 8.06 acres
133      4-15-71     Section 5, NE¼
135      8-16-73     Section 7, NE ¼, NW¼
139      9-12-76     Section 7, NE¼, NW¼
142      9-15-77     Section 5, N½, N½, NW¼, SE¼
145      9-19-79     Section 5, East Heights, SW¼, NE¼
150-     -           Section 5, SE¼
168      11-16-89    Annex 8 tracts of land (Repealed)
172      2-5-90      Repeal Ord. 168 (8 tracts)
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     An agreement between the City of Benson and Swift County
                     for an initial term of 25 years, and thereafter for like
—      —         periods of 25 years until terminated, to participate in
                     the acquisition of a site for a hospital and to construct,
                     maintain, and operate the hospital jointly
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting of a franchise for an initial term of 10 years to
1077.92  5-21-92     Northern Video, Inc., for the construction and operation
                     of a cable television system
                     Granting of a five-year franchise to Minnegasco, a
1094.95  12-7-95     division of NorAm Energy Corp., for the transportation,
                     distribution, manufacture, and sale of gas energy
                     Granting a franchise for period of ten years to Reliant
184      12-10-01    Energy Minnegasco, a division of Reliant Energy Resources
                     Corp., for the transportation, distribution, manufacture,
                     and sale of gas energy
                     Granting a franchise for a period of ten years to Charter
191      8-11-03     Communications to construct, operate, and maintain a cable
                     communications system in the city
                     Implementing a gas energy franchise fee on Centerpoint
202      7-20-09     Energy Minnesota Gas for providing gas energy service
                     within the city
                     Granting Centerpoint Energy Resources., d/b/a Centerpoint
184      1-23-12     Energy Minnesota Gas a non-exclusive franchise for the
                     transportation, distribution, manufacture and sale of gas
                     energy
                     Granting Benson Municipal Utilities a non-exclusive
205      11-17-14    franchise for the furnishing of electric energy to a
                     portion of the city
                     Implementing a gas energy franchise fee on Centerpoint
202      12-1-14     Energy Minnesota Gas for providing gas energy service
                     within the city
                     Granting Centerpoint Energy Resources., d/b/a Centerpoint
1158.22  4-18-22     Energy Minnesota Gas a non-exclusive franchise for the
                     transportation, distribution, manufacture and sale of gas
                     energy
                    
 
Cross-reference:
   
Franchises, see Charter Ch. 10
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE SALES AND THE LIKE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
111  5-11-  Original Block 31, Lots 4-10
     66
113  6-30-  Original, N 13 ft. of 17, 18, Block 22
     66
121  2-1-68 Highland Addition, Lot 1
123  9-26-  McKinney 3rd Addition, Lot 10, Block 2
     68
126  5-20-  Highland Addition, Lot 3, Block 1
     76
132  4-11-  Original, Lot 6, Block 28
     71
138  5-20-  Highland Addition, Outlot A, 2nd Railway Pt. Block 5
     76
140  4-21-  Section 5, Pt. SE¼, SW¼, Dave Mitteness
     77
141  7-21-  Westwood Acres, Authorizing Lot Sales
     77
143  2-2-78 HUD Lot Sales
144  6-20-  Highland Addition, Lots 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Block 1
     78
146  6-21-  Original, Lot 8, 9, 10 Block 27 to Bank
     79
147  6-21-  Original Pt. 2, 3, Block 30, Original Pt. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 Block 30
     79
151  9-16-  Southside Addition, Lot 8, Block 16, Roger Johnson
     82
161  10-20- Southside Addition, Pt. Lots 9, 10, Block 9, Dean Gades
     83
162  10-20- Development District, Lot Sale Auth.
     83
169  11-16- Amd. Ord. 138
     89
170  11-16- Sale of Real Estate acquired under Community Development Programs
     89
171  11-16- Pt. SW¼, NE¼ of 5 to Larry Pillatzke and Lots 20-23, Block 3, E. Heights to
     89     Eldon Norby
173  9-2-93 Lots 10-12, Block 3, E. Heights to Ed and Suzanne Fitz
174  10-7-  Lot 10, Block 6, McKinney's 1st to Rick Minor and Tom Orr; Lot 9, Block 6,
     93     McKinney's 1st to Swift County Homes
175  11-4-  Pt. Lot 24, Block 3, E. Heights to Eldon Norby; Lots 2 and 7, Block 1, Benson
     93     Ind. Rail Addition to Steve Claussen
176  4-21-  Lots 1-4, Block 31, Original Townsite to Thomas Lang
     94
181  7-12-  Northeast corner of the SE ¼ - NW ¼ of Section 15, Township 122, Range 38
     99
193  10-11- Southeast corner of the E½, SW ¼ of Section 33, Township 122, Range 39
     04
199  6-26-  Southeast corner of the E½ - SW¼ of Section 33, Township 122, Range 39
     06
201  8-20-  Southeast quarter of the NW ¼ of Section 15, Township 122, Range 38
     08
 
TABLE V: VACATION OF ADDITIONS, STREETS, AND THE LIKE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
103  9-6-50 Pt. Alsaker's Addition
107  4-22-  Pt. Groehler's Addition
     59
109  2-9-86 Original, Alley in Block 23
118  4-12-  Sunwall Addition, Alley Block 3
     67
120  9-28-  Oakwood Ave., - 10th St. East
     67
131  4-1-71 Pt. of 17th St. N. B-N Railroad
137  1-16-  2nd Railway Addition - Alley Block 10 and Pt. of Bernhardt Ave.
     75
164  1-2-86 Southside Addition - Alley Block 1
165  4-16-  Original, Block 27
     87
Res. 6-16-  Groehler's Addition, Alley in Block 1, Alley between Block 2 of
94-  94     Fairview 1st Addition and Block 52 of Stone's Addition
12
Res. 9-15-  Alley between Block 7 of Second Park Place Addition and Block 4
94-  94     McKinney's Third Addition; Alley between Lot 6 and Lots 7 and 8 in
23          Block 4 McKinney's Third Addition
178  3-11-  Alley in Block 4, McKinney's First Addition
     96
     3-25-  Alleyway in Block 4, Sunwall Addition and 14th Street to the West of
179  96     Block 4, Sunwall Addition and the South one-half of the street to the
            North of Block 4, Sunwall Addition
192  9-27-  Unused utility easement lying within Benson Industrial Rail Second
     04     Addition
194  11-22- Utility easements dated 12-9-59 and 1-21-56
     04
195  6-13-  Unused utility easement lying within Victory Addition
     05
203  5-7-12 Vacating certain alleys located within Block Four of McKinney’s First
            Addition to the city
206  3-16-  Vacating certain streets dedicated to the public use and lying within
     15     the Sunwall Addition to the city
           
 
TABLE VI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord. No. Date Passed                   Description
                                        Pt. Hansen Addition R-2 to B-3
124      11-7-68     R-1 to R-3         Pt. Morris and Paytes Addition to B-
                                        3 Land Annexed by Ord. 122
134      5-23-73     R-2 to I-1         Section 6 between 19th and 21st
143A     5- -78                        Airport Zoning Ord. Joint Power/County
148      9-20-79     I-2 to R-2         Unplatted North end 13th St.
149      12-6-79     to R-2             East Heights to R-2 Pt. Sec. 5
153      3-3-83      R-2 to R-2         Thoren's Addition, Outlot 1
                     R-1 to R-2         Thoren's Addition, Outlot 2 & 3
166      4-27-89     to B-3             Pt. of Southside Addition
167      7-6-89      I-1 to R-2         Pt. of Sect. 5
180      10-28-96    R-1 to R-2         Prairie View Addition, Block 2
198      4-24-06     A to B-2           Benson Acre Lots
204      1-14-13     R-1 to B-2         Lot 5 and the west one-half of Lot 6,
                                        Block 16, Southside Addition
1145.15  5-11-15     R-1 to R-3         Part NE Quarter of Section 6, Township
                                        121 North, Range 39 West
208      3-4-19      I-1 and B-2        Three currently undesignated lots
1152.20  4-13-20     R-1 and B-2 to I-1 Section detailed on the attached
                                        Exhibit A of Ord. 1152.20
                                        South 70 ft. of Lots 5 and 6, Block 1,
1153.20  11-30-20    R-1 to B-2         Southside Addition and South 70 ft. of
                                        Lots 7 and 8, Block 1, Southside
                                        Addition
1156.22  5-16-22     R-2 and B-2 to I-1 Pt. of the SW Quarter of the SE Quarter
                                        of Section 5
214      9-9-24      I-1 to M-1         Pt. of the NW Quarter of the NE Quarter
                                        of Section 5
                                      
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section            Code Section
12.25                   36.01,
                        36.06
12.26                   36.04
12.31                   36.08
Ch. 13                  117.15
14.57 - 14.69           110.52
15.99                   154.178
16B.59 - 16B.75         150.01
16B.62                  150.01
16B.65                  150.01
16B.69                  150.01
16B.70                  150.01
18.023                  94.02
18.77, Subd. 8          93.12
35.71                   90.07,
                        90.11
65B.48                  77.07
84.842                  73.06
Ch. 103F                154.195
Ch. 103G                154.198,
                        154.204
115A.94, Subd. 4a to 4f 51.02
120A.05                 120.01
120A.24                 120.01
123.92(3)               132.01
Ch. 144A.01             154.002
144.391                 112.01
168.021                 154.019
                        70.01,
Ch. 169                 72.14,
                        77.08,
                        77.09
169.045                 77.01
169.045, Subd. 7        77.08
169.67                  77.08
169.68                  77.08
169.69                  77.08
169.121                 73.07
169.522                 77.08
169.791                 77.07
169A.20                 73.30
173.01                  154.020
211B.045                154.020
245.462, Subd. 23       120.01
243.147                 99.05
243.166                 99.02,
                        99.05
243.1767                99.05
243.3166                99.05
244.052, Subd. 2        99.02
244.052, Subd. 3(i)     99.05
Ch. 245A                154.002
309.53                  111.30
309.53(1a)              111.30
327.31(G)               150.30
Ch. 329                 114.03
                        110.10,
Ch. 340A                110.49,
                        110.52,
                        119.08
340A.408                110.13
340A.409                110.12,
                        110.52
Ch. 342                 120.02,
                        120.03
342.01                  120.01, 133.03
342.01, Subd. 50        120.01
342.11                  120.03
342.13                  120.03
342.17                  120.01
342.22                  120.03
342.22, Subd. 4(b)   120.03
42.22, Subd. 5(e)       120.03
342.24                  120.03
342.39, Subd. 2         120.05
Ch. 347                 90.13
347.51                  90.13
347.56                  90.13
347.542                 90.13
Ch. 349                 111.24
349.26                  111.01
349.26(9)               111.02,
                        111.03
351.02                  30.03
360.063                 155.01
360.063, Subd. 6a       155.09
360.068, Subd. 2        155.13
360.073                 155.99
366.011                 33.20
366.012                 33.20
372.32                  154.060
412.02, Subd. 2a        30.03
412.231                 10.99,
                        72.99
415.01                  33.20
415.11                  30.02
Ch. 429                 94.07
429.081                 92.50,
                        93.04
                        92.48,
429.101                 92.51,
                        94.10
435.193 - 435.195       92.50,
                        93.04
Ch. 444                 119.07
444.075                 55.01,
                        55.02
461.12                  112.99
Ch. 462                 154.181,
                        154.195
462.357, Subd. 1e       120.04
462.3593                154.033
462.3593, Subd. 9       154.033 
463.15 - 463.26         97.14
463.26                  97.01
469.190                 118.02
471.195                 33.30
471.45                  34.02
Ch. 609                 117.02
609.02                  90.99
609.02, Subd. 3         10.99,
                        72.99
609.02, Subd. 4a        10.99,
                        72.99
609.034                 10.99,
                        72.99
609.74                  93.01
617.242                 117.45
Ch. 624                 130.01
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
 
Minn. Rules           Code Section
61.02.0040 subpart 4  73.28
Ch. 1300              150.01
Ch. 1306              150.01
Ch. 1335              150.01
1335.0600 - 1335.1200 150.01
                      
 
REFERENCES TO 1975 CODE OF ORDINANCES
1975 Code Section 2000 Code Section
1975 Code Section 2000 Code Section
2.101             30.01
2.102             30.01
2.201 - 2.202     30.02
2.203             30.02
2.204             30.02
2.301             32.01
2.302             32.02
2.401             30.04
2.601             33.30
2.602             33.31
2.603             33.32
2.604             33.33
2.605             33.34
2.607 - 2.608     33.35
2.901             11.01
3.100             31.15
3.110             31.15
3.111             31.15
3.113             31.15
3.200             32.15
3.210             32.16
3.211             32.16
3.213             32.16
3.220 - 3.223     32.17
3.230             32.18
3.232 - 3.234     32.18
3.240             32.19
3.242 - 3.244     32.19
3.300             32.30
3.310             32.31
3.320             32.32
3.330             32.33
3.340             32.34
3.350             32.35
3.360             32.36
3.370             33.02
3.380             33.15
3.381             33.16
3.390             32.37
3.400             32.50
3.420             32.51
3.430             32.52
3.440             32.53
3.450             32.54
3.460             32.55
3.470             32.56
3.480             32.57
3.500             31.01
3.511             31.16
3.512             31.17
3.513             31.18
3.514             31.19
3.520             31.20
3.521             31.21
3.522             31.22
3.523             31.23
3.525             31.24
3.530             31.25
3.600             31.02
4.101 - 4.103     34.01
4.201             34.02
4.202             34.02
4.203             34.02
5.001             52.01
5.002             52.02
5.003             52.15
5.004             52.16
5.005             52.17
5.006             52.30 -
                  52.36
5.007             52.50 -
                  52.59
5.008             52.18
5.009             52.85
5.010             52.38
5.012             52.87
5.051             52.70
5.052             52.71
5.053             52.72
5.054             52.73
5.055             52.74
5.056             52.86
5.057             52.37
5.058             52.60
5.059             52.88
5.060             52.75
5.061             52.03
5.301             50.01
5.302             50.03
5.303             50.16
5.305             50.30
5.306             50.31
5.307             50.35
5.308             50.36
5.309             50.37
5.310             50.02,
                  50.99
5.311             50.03
5.312             50.33
5.313             50.34
5.314             50.32
5.315             50.17
5.315 - 5.316     50.99
5.316             50.18
5.520             130.03
5.521             130.03
5.6000            91.15
5.6001            91.15
5.6002            91.15
5.601             91.01
5.602             91.02
5.603             91.17
5.604             91.03
5.605             91.16
5.606             91.04
5.700             91.18
5.701             91.18
5.702             91.18
5.703             91.18
6.101             92.01
6.102             92.01
6.103             92.02
6.104             92.03
6.105             92.04
6.106             92.05
6.107             92.06
6.108             92.07
6.109             92.08
6.201             92.20
6.202             92.21
6.203             92.22
6.204             92.23
6.205             92.24
6.206             92.27
6.207             92.25
6.208             92.26
6.209             92.28
6.301             92.40
6.302             92.41
6.303             92.42
6.304             92.43
6.305             92.44
6.306             92.45
6.307             92.46
6.308             92.47
6.309             92.48
6.310             92.49
6.311             92.50
6.312             92.51
7.101             70.01
7.102             70.99
7.110             70.02
7.111             70.99
7.120             70.03
7.121             70.99
7.131             71.01
7.132             71.02
7.133             71.03
7.134             70.04
7.135             71.04
7.136             71.05
7.137             71.06
7.138             71.07
7.139             71.08,
                  74.02
7.140             71.09
7.141             71.10
7.142             71.11
7.143             71.12
7.144             70.05
7.145             71.08
7.146             71.08
7.165(1)          95.06
7.165(2)          95.01
7.165(3)          95.07
7.165(5)          95.08
7.165(6)          95.09
7.165(7)          95.10
7.165(8)          95.02
7.165(9)          95.05
7.207             72.01
7.208             72.02
7.209             72.03
7.210             72.04
7.211             72.05
7.212             72.06
7.213             72.07
7.214             72.08
7.215             72.09
7.216             72.10
7.217             72.11
7.218             72.12
7.219             72.13
7.220             72.14
7.222             72.15
7.250             71.13,
                  71.99
7.301             73.01
7.302             73.02
7.303             73.03
7.304             73.04
7.305             73.05
7.306             73.06
7.307             73.07
7.308             73.08
7.309             73.09
7.310             73.10
7.311             73.11
7.402             74.01
7.403             74.02
7.504             72.25
7.505(1)          72.26
7.505(3)          72.27
7.505(4)          72.28
9.805             151.02
10.201            94.01
10.202            94.01
10.203            94.02
10.204            94.03
10.205            94.04
10.206            94.05
10.207            94.05
10.208            94.06
10.209            94.08
10.210            94.07
10.211            94.07
10.212            94.09
10.213            94.10
10.214            94.11
10.215            94.11
10.216            94.12
10.217            94.13
11.101            33.01
11.301            33.15
11.302 - 11.303   33.17
11.304            33.16
11.305            33.18
11.306            33.19
11.401            96.01
11.402            96.01
11.502            130.99
11.601            132.01
11.602            132.02
11.603            132.03
11.604            132.04
11.605            132.05
11.606            132.06
11.607            132.99
12.304            90.99
13.106            111.01
13.107            111.02
13.108            111.03
13.109            111.04
13.110            111.05
13.111            111.06
13.112            111.07
13.113            111.07
13.114            111.08
13.115            111.09
13.301            131.01
13.302            131.02
13.303            131.03
13.304            131.04
13.3041           131.06
13.305            131.05
13.306            131.99
13.401            130.02
13.501            111.20
13.502            111.21
13.503            111.22
13.504            111.23
13.505            111.24
13.506            111.25
13.507            111.26
13.508            111.28
13.509            111.29
13.510            111.30
13.511            111.31
13.512            111.32
13.513            111.33
13.514            111.27
13.515            111.99
14.101            110.10
14.102            110.11
14.103            110.12
14.104            110.13
14.105            110.14
14.106            110.15
14.107            110.15
14.108            110.15
14.109            110.16
14.201            110.25
14.202            110.26
14.203            110.27
14.204            110.29
14.205            110.30
14.206            110.31
14.207            110.32
14.208            110.33
14.209            110.34
14.210            110.28
14.301            110.45
14.302            110.46
14.303            110.47
14.305            110.48
14.306            110.49
14.307            110.50
14.308            110.51
14.501(1)         110.01
14.501(5)         110.99
14.901            112.01
14.902            112.02
14.903            112.03
14.905            112.04
14.906            112.05
15.04             113.99
15.201            113.01
15.202            113.02
15.203            113.03
15.204            113.04
15.205            113.03
15.206            113.99
17.101            115.01
17.102            115.02
17.103            115.03
17.104            115.04
17.105            115.05
17.106            115.03
17.107            115.07
17.108            115.08
17.109            115.09
17.110            115.06
18.101            116.01
18.102            116.05
18.103            116.05
18.104            116.03
18.105            116.03
18.106            116.04
18.107            116.13
18.108            116.02
18.109            116.06
18.110            116.01
18.111            116.07
18.112            116.09
18.113            116.10
18.114            116.11
18.115            116.08
18.116            116.12
19.101            152.01
19.102            152.02
19.103            152.03
19.104            152.04
19.201 - 19.203   152.15
19.204            152.16,
                  152.17
19.205            152.19
19.601            153.01
19.602            153.02
19.603            153.03
19.604            153.20
19.605(1)         153.22
19.605(2)         153.25
19.606            153.21
19.607            153.23
19.608            153.24
19.609(1)         153.35
19.609(2)         153.36
19.609(3)         153.37
19.609(4)         153.38
19.609(5)         153.39
19.609(6)         153.40
19.609(7)         153.41
19.609(8)         153.42
19.609(9)         153.43
19.609(10)        153.44
19.609(11)        153.45
19.609(12)        153.46
19.609(13)        153.47
19.609(14)        153.48
19.609(15)        153.49
19.609(16)        153.50
19.609(17)        153.51
19.610            153.04
19.611            153.05
19.611(1)         153.65
19.611(2)         153.66
19.611(5)         153.67
19.611(6)         153.68
19.611(7)         153.69
19.611(8)         153.70
19.612            153.06
19.613            152.18
19.614            152.04
19.615            153.07
19.800            151.01
19.801            151.02
19.802            151.03
19.803            151.04
19.804            151.05
19.806            151.06
20.0004           150.15
20.0005           150.16
20.1017           150.30
20.1018 - 20.19   150.30
20.1020           150.34
20.1021           150.31
20.1022           150.32
20.1023           150.31
20.1024           150.33
20.20001          150.02
20.201            150.17
20.210            93.17
21.101            30.05
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
94-12    6-16-94     T.S.O. III
94-23    9-15-94     T.S.O. III
99-22    11-22-99    53.01 -
                     53.10
11-15    9-6-11      53.11
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
—      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. II
—      - -         T.S.O. II
100      - -24       T.S.O. I
101      7-16-46     T.S.O. I
102      6-7-48      T.S.O. I
103      9-6-50      T.S.O. V
104      9-6-50      T.S.O. I
105A     8-22-56     T.S.O. I
105      8-22-56     T.S.O. I
105B     1-9-57      T.S.O. I
107      4-22-59     T.S.O. V
106      11-12-59    T.S.O. I
108      11-12-59    T.S.O. I
112      2-25-66     T.S.O. I
111      5-11-66     T.S.O. IV
113      6-30-66     T.S.O. IV
114      9-21-66     T.S.O. I
115      10-26-66    T.S.O. I
116      10-26-66    T.S.O. I
117      1-11-67     T.S.O. I
118      4-12-67     T.S.O. V
120      9-28-67     T.S.O. V
121      2-1-68      T.S.O. IV
122      6-6-68      T.S.O. I
123      9-26-68     T.S.O. IV
124      11-7-68     T.S.O. VI
127      8-21-69     T.S.O. I
128      11-6-69     T.S.O. I
129      12-10-70    T.S.O. I
130      12-17-70    T.S.O. I
131      4-1-71      T.S.O. V
132      4-11-71     T.S.O. IV
133      4-15-71     T.S.O. I
134      5-23-73     T.S.O. VI
135      8-16-73     T.S.O. I
137      1-16-75     T.S.O. V
126      5-20-76     T.S.O. IV
138      5-20-76     T.S.O. IV
139      9-12-76     T.S.O. I
                     111.20 -
1000.76  - -76       111.33,
                     111.99
140      4-21-77     T.S.O. IV
141      7-21-77     T.S.O. IV
142      9-15-77     T.S.O. I
1003.77  9-15-77     152.02
1005.77  - -77       71.13,
                     71.99
143      2-2-78      T.S.O. IV
143A     5- -78      T.S.O. VI
144      6-20-78     T.S.O. IV
1009.78  - -78       92.21 -
                     92.28
1010.79  2-1-79      11.01
146      6-21-79     T.S.O. IV
147      6-21-79     T.S.O. IV
145      9-19-79     T.S.O. I
148      9-20-79     T.S.O. VI
149      12-6-79     T.S.O. VI
1014.80  - -80       110.15
1015.80  - -80       70.05,
                     71.08
1017.80  - -80       113.99
1022.81  9-3-81      30.02
1023.81  10-1-81     110.01
1024.81  10-1-81     131.06
1035.83  4-21-82     111.04
1027.82  8-5-82      91.15
                     72.01,
1030.82  9-2-82      72.02,
                     72.12,
                     72.14
150      - -         T.S.O. I
151      9-16-82     T.S.O. IV
1031.83  1-20-83     32.53
1032.82  2-3-83      90.99
                     70.99,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. I,
1032.83  2-3-83      110.99,
                     130.99,
                     131.99
1033.83  2-3-83      50.17,
                     50.99
153      3-3-83      T.S.O. VI
1035.83  4-21-83     111.01 -
                     111.09
1037.83  5-5-83      34.01
1039.83  7-21-83     Ch. 75, Sch. I
1040.83  8-4-83      50.18,
                     50.99
161      10-20-83    T.S.O. IV
162      10-20-83    T.S.O. IV
                     52.01,
                     52.02,
                     52.15 -
                     52.18,
1043.83  12-15-83    52.30 -
                     52.36,
                     52.50 -
                     52.59,
                     52.85,
                     52.87
                     52.03,
                     52.37,
1045.84  1-19-84     52.70 -
                     52.75,
                     52.86,
                     52.88
1045.85  1-19-84     52.60
1047.84  5-3-84      52.38
                     32.54,
1049.84  7-12-84     151.01 -
                     151.06
1050.84  8-20-84     92.49 -
                     92.51
                     95.01,
1052.84  12-20-84    95.02,
                     95.05 -
                     95.10
164      1-2-86      T.S.O. V
109      2-9-86      T.S.O. V
1054.86  - -86       92.40 -
                     92.42
1055.86  - -86       110.12
1057.86  10-2-86     110.28
165      4-16-87     T.S.O. V
1058.87  9-17-87     90.21, 90.99
1060.87  9-17-87     30.02
1061.88  1-7-88      32.02,
                     110.47
                     31.01,
                     31.02,
                     31.15 -
                     31.25,
                     32.15 -
                     32.19,
                     32.30 -
1062.88  1-7-88      32.37,
                     32.50 -
                     32.56,
                     33.02,
                     33.15,
                     33.16,
                     151.01 -
                     151.06
1061.88  1-9-88      34.02
1063.88  9-8-88      110.49
1064.88  9-8-88      72.25 -
                     72.28
166      4-27-89     T.S.O. VI
167      7-6-89      T.S.O. VI
1066.89  - -89       150.30,
                     150.34
168      11-16-89    T.S.O. I
169      11-16-89    T.S.O. IV
170      11-16-89    T.S.O. IV
171      11-16-89    T.S.O. IV
172      2-5-90      T.S.O. I
                     110.13,
1067.90  4-2-90      110.15,
                     110.29
1069.91  2-7-91      110.01
1074.92  4-16-92     130.02
1075.92  4-16-92     70.02
                     50.03,
                     50.30,
                     50.31,
1076.92  5-21-92     50.33 -
                     50.36,
                     52.71 -
                     52.74
1077.92  5-21-92     T.S.O. III
                     150.02,
1078.92  7-27-92     150.15,
                     150.16
1079.92  9-17-92     33.30 -
                     33.35
1081.92  10-15-92    33.15 -
                     33.19
1082.93  2-4-93      74.02
                     132.01 -
1083.93  5-6-93      132.06,
                     132.99
173      9-2-93      T.S.O. IV
174      10-7-93     T.S.O. IV
1084.93  10-7-93     74.02
175      11-4-93     T.S.O. IV
                     153.05,
1085.93  11-4-93     153.22,
                     153.25,
                     153.51
176      4-21-94     T.S.O. IV
1087.94  6-2-94      72.26 -
                     72.28
1090.95  2-16-95     112.01 -
                     112.05
1091.95  4-6-95      150.31 -
                     150.33
1092.95  8-17-95     150.02
1093.95  10-19-95    32.57
1094.95  12-7-95     T.S.O. III
1095.95  12-7-95     30.02
178      3-11-96     T.S.O. V
1098.96  3-11-96     112.02
179      3-25-96     T.S.O. V
180      10-28-96    T.S.O. VI
                     95.01,
1100.97  8-20-97     95.02,
                     95.05 -
                     95.10
–      10-1-97     73.01 -
                     73.11
181      7-12-99     T.S.O. IV
1104.99  9-27-99     30.02
1105.00  8-28-00     70.06,
                     70.99
1106.01  6-11-01     93.18
182      6-11-01     Adopting Ordinance
1107.01  7-23-01     112.02,
                     112.04
184      12-10-01    T.S.O. III
1109.02  6-24-02     50.19
191      8-11-03     T.S.O. III
                     154.001 -
                     154.004,
                     154.015 -
                     154.032,
1112.03  8-25-03     154.040 -
                     154.047,
                     154.055 -
                     154.061,
                     154.175 -
                     154.181
1113.04  2-23-04     150.01
192      9-27-04     T.S.O. V
193      10-11-04    T.S.O. IV
194      11-22-04    T.S.O. V
195      6-13-05     T.S.O. V
                     154.195 -
1114.05  10-24-05    154.206,
                     154.999
1115.05  12-12-05    154.002
                     114.02,
1116.05  12-12-05    114.03,
                     114.07
                     118.01 -
1117.05  12-12-05    118.16,
                     118.99
198      4-24-06     T.S.O. VI
1119.06  5-8-06      110.52
1120.06  6-12-06     96.02
199      6-26-06     T.S.O. IV
1121.06  8-14-06     154.020
                     36.01 -
                     36.04,
1122.07  4-23-07     36.06 -
                     36.14,
                     36.99
1123.07  6-25-07     70.07
1124.07  7-9-07      93.02 -
                     93.19
1125.07  9-19-07     97.01 -
                     97.14
1126.07  11-13-07    33.20
201      8-20-08     T.S.O. IV
                     119.01 -
1128.09  2-9-09      119.09,
                     119.99
1129.09  5-4-09      54.01 -
                     54.03
202      7-20-09     T.S.O. III
                     77.01 -
1130.09  9-14-09     77.11,
                     77.99
                     90.01 -
1131.10  2-1-10      90.18,
                     90.99
                     51.20 -
1132.10  2-16-10     51.25,
                     51.99
1133.10  3-1-10      154.020
                     117.01 -
                     117.03,
                     117.15 -
1134.10  8-2-10      117.23,
                     117.35 -
                     117.45,
                     117.99
1135.11  3-21-11     90.99
1136.11  9-6-11      53.11
1137.11  9-6-11      154.177
184      1-23-12     T.S.O. III
203      5-7-12      T.S.O. V
1138.12  6-25-12     95.01 -
                     95.10
1139.12  6-25-12     55.01 -
                     55.08
1140.12  8-6-12      93.03 -
                     93.09
204      1-14-13     T.S.O. VI
1141.13  2-19-13     130.01
                     50.01,
                     50.15,
1142.13  5-20-13     50.30 -
                     50.32,
                     50.35 -
                     50.37
1143.14  5-19-14     93.18
205      11-17-14    T.S.O. III
202      12-1-14     T.S.O. III
1144.15  2-2-15      98.01 -
                     98.06
206      3-16-15     T.S.O. V
1145.15  5-11-15     T.S.O. VI
                     155.01 -
1146.15  11-16-15    155.15,
                     155.99
1147.16  10-18-16    154.033
                     112.01 -
1148.16  11-21-16    112.12,
                     112.99
                     99.01 -
207      2-21-17     99.06,
                     99.99
208      3-4-19      T.S.O. VI
1149.19  10-7-19     154.017
1150.19  10-21-19    71.14
                     73.25-
1151.20  1-13-20     73.32,
                     73.99
1152.20  4-13-20     T.S.O. VI
1153.20  11-30-20    T.S.O. VI
209      7-19-21     2.05,
                     4.01
210      7-19-21     30.03
1155.21  8-2-21      154.002,
                     154.056
1157.22  2-22-22     51.01 -
                     51.10
1158.22  4-18-22     T.S.O. III
1156.22  5-16-22     T.S.O. VI
212      5-15-23     154.026,
                     154.056
                     112.02,
                     112.04,
—      - -         112.07,
                     112.10,
                     154.025
1159.24  2-20-24     133.01 - 133.04, 133.99
                     71.08,
                     119.06,
                     154.019,
1160.24  3-4-24      154.020,
                     154.055,
                     154.056,
                     154.059
214      9-9-24      T.S.O. VI
1161.24  11-18-24    154.056
                     120.01 -
1162.24  11-18-24    120.08,
                     120.99
1163.24  11-18-24    32.02
215      2-18-25     118.15,
                     118.16
                    
 
