THE CITY OF BIG LAKE MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-05, passed 5-14-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 1: CODE INTRODUCTION
Section
      
100.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
110.   INTERPRETATION AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
      
120.   DEFINITIONS
      
130.   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
      
140.   ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
Subsection
Section 100: General Provisions
   
100.01   Adoption of Code
   
100.02   Short Title
   
100.03   Statutory Rules Adopted
   
100.04   Existing Rights and Liabilities
   
100.05   Repeal of Ordinances
   
100.06   Preservation of Existing Rights
   
100.07   Subsequent Ordinances
   
100.08   Consecutive Numbering to Continue
   
100.09   Additions
   
100.10   Updating
   
100.11   Separability
   
100.12   Copies
   
100.13   Enforcement
Section 110: Interpretation and Rules of Construction
   
110.01   General
   
110.02   Masculine, Feminine, or Neuter
   
110.03   Singular or Plural
   
110.04   Past, Present, or Future
   
110.05   Joint Authority
   
110.06   Computation of Time
   
110.07   Agents
   
110.08   Conjunctions
   
110.09   Catch Lines
   
110.10   Substantive Changes Not Intended
Section 120: Definitions
   
120.01   Certain Terms Defined
   
120.02   Other Definitions
   
120.03   Minnesota Definitions to Apply
Section 130: Violations and Penalties
   
130.01   Petty Misdemeanor
   
130.02   Misdemeanors
   
130.03   Separate Violations
   
130.04   City Personnel Liability
Section 140: Administrative Citations
   
140.01   Purpose
   
140.02   Definition of Administrative Offense
   
140.03   Issuance of Administrative Citation
   
140.04   Payment of Fine
   
140.05   Withdrawal from Administrative Citation Process
   
140.06   Failure of Offending Party to Pay Fine
   
140.07   Fines
SECTION 100: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 100.01 Adoption of Code.
The ordinances of the city hereby are revised and codified. Such codification
is hereby adopted as the “Municipal Code of Big Lake.” References to the
Municipal Code of Big Lake shall include all additions and amendments to it.
§ 100.02 Short Title.
The Municipal Code of Big Lake may be referred to as “this Code” or “the
Municipal Code.”
§ 100.03 Statutory Rules Adopted.
The definitions and rules of construction, presumptions, and miscellaneous
provisions pertaining to construction contained in M.S. Chapter 645, as it may
be amended from time to time, are adopted by reference and made a part of this
Code. As so adopted, references in that chapter to laws and statutes mean
provisions of this Code and references to the legislature mean the Council.
§ 100.04 Existing Rights and Liabilities.
The repeal of prior ordinances and adoption of this Code are not to be
construed to affect in any manner rights and liabilities existing at the time
of repeal and the enactment of this Code. Insofar as provisions in this Code
are substantially the same as pre-existing ordinances, they shall be considered
as continuations and not as new enactments. Any act done, offense committed, or
right accruing, or liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred or
assessed prior to the effective date of this Code is not affected by the
enactment of the Code.
§ 100.05 Repeal of Ordinances.
All ordinances passed by the city up to the time of adoption of this Code are
hereby repealed except those ordinances otherwise specifically provided for in
this Code.
§ 100.06 Preservation of Existing Rights.
The repeal of any ordinance or portion thereof by the adoption of this Code
shall not affect or impair any act done or right vested or accrued, or any
proceeding, suit, or prosecution had or commenced in any cause before such
repeal takes effect; but every such act done or right vested or accrued, or
proceeding, suit, or prosecution had or commenced shall remain in full force
and effect to all intents and purposes as if such repeal had not taken place.
No offense committed and no liability, penalty, or forfeiture, either civilly
or criminally incurred, prior to the time when such ordinance or part thereof
shall be repealed by the adoption of this Code, shall be discharged or affected
by such repeal; but prosecution and suits for such offenses, liabilities,
penalties, or forfeitures shall be instituted and proceeded within all respects
as if such prior ordinance or part thereof had not been repealed.
§ 100.07 Subsequent Ordinances.
Ordinances passed by the city after the effective date of this Code shall be
passed as amendments or additions to this Code (unless they are of limited or
special application or are otherwise deemed to be not a part of this Code).
Such ordinances shall be incorporated into this Code at its annual revisions
effective upon passage.
§ 100.08 Consecutive Numbering to Continue.
Consecutive chronological numbering of all ordinances as passed shall continue.
§ 100.09 Additions.
New ordinances proposing amendments or additions to the Code shall be assigned
appropriate code numbers and shall be incorporated into the Code as of their
effective date. Reference or citation to the Code shall be deemed to include
such amendments and additions. When an ordinance is integrated into the Code,
there may be omitted from the ordinance the title, enacting clause, section
numbers, definitions of terms identical to those contained in this Code, the
clause indicating date of adoption, and validating signatures and dates. In
integrating ordinances into the Code, the City Administrator, in cooperation
with the City Attorney, may correct obvious grammatical, punctuation, and
spelling errors; change reference numbers to conform with sections, articles,
and chapters; substitute figures for written words and vice versa; substitute
dates for the words “the effective date of this ordinance;” and perform like
actions to ensure a uniform code of ordinances without, however, altering the
meaning of the ordinances enacted.
§ 100.10 Updating.
This Code is printed in loose-leaf form so that it may be kept up to date
regularly by the insertion of revised or additional pages. The Code is also
available on the internet.
§ 100.11 Separability.
If any chapter, section, sentence, clause, or other part of the Municipal Code
of Big Lake shall be adjudged void or of no effect, for any reason whatsoever,
such decision shall not affect the validity of any of the other portions of the
Code.
§ 100.12 Copies.
Copies of this Code shall be kept in the office of the City Administrator for
public inspection or sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 100.13 Enforcement.
   Subd. 1.   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or
the County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce
any provision of this Code.
   Subd. 2.   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk shall have the authority to administer and enforce this
Code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the Code or by the Clerk or City Council shall have the
authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the Code.
   Subd. 3.   The City Clerk and any city official or employee designated by
this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this Code may with
the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident
of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this Code.
   Subd. 4.   Every licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or
entrance to the property by the City Clerk or any other authorized city officer
or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this Code enacted to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses, or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be
given to the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of the
property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner,
resident, or other person in control of the property shall be given an
opportunity to appear before the City Clerk to object to the termination before
it occurs, subject to appeal of the Clerk’s decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   Subd. 5.   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk, peace officer, or any employee or official charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this Code may, upon a showing that probable cause
exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting the
inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only to
determine whether the provisions of this Code enacted to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   Subd. 6.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority
of the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where
there is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
SECTION 110: INTERPRETATION AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
§ 110.01 General.
Words and phrases shall be construed in their plain, ordinary, and usual sense,
except that technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
§ 110.02 Masculine, Feminine, or Neuter.
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the use of the masculine,
feminine, or neuter gender shall include the other genders.
§ 110.03 Singular or Plural.
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the use of either singular or
plural numbers shall include the other number.
§ 110.04 Past, Present, or Future.
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the use of the past, present, or
future tense shall include the other tenses.
§ 110.05 Joint Authority.
Words importing joint authority to three or more persons shall be construed as
authority to a majority of such persons.
§ 110.06 Computation of Time.
The time within which an act shall be done shall be computed by excluding the
first and including the last day. If the last day is a Sunday or legal holiday,
such day shall be excluded.
§ 110.07 Agents.
Whenever the Municipal Code requires an act to be done, which act may legally
be done by an agent or employee as well as by the principal, such requirement
shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized agent or
employee.
§ 110.08 Conjunctions.
The words “or” and “and” may be read interchangeably in situations where the
context requires it.
§ 110.09 Catch Lines.
The catch lines of the various sections of the Municipal Code printed in bold
type are intended to indicate the contents of the section for the convenience
of the reader, but shall not be construed as a part of the section.
§ 110.10 Substantive Changes Not Intended.
The Municipal Code is intended as a codification of the existing law, and shall
be construed in accordance with such intent.
SECTION 120: DEFINITIONS
§ 120.01 Certain Terms Defined.
For the purpose of this Municipal Code, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Administrator. The person appointed by the Council to perform the duties of
City Administrator.
Alley. A private or public passage or way located within the city and which is:
         1.   Less than the width of the average city street;
         2.   Is not designed for general vehicular traffic;
         3.   Intersects with or opens onto a street; and
         4.   Is primarily used for the ingress and egress or other convenience
of the owner or owners or abutting real properties.
City. The City of Big Lake.
City Clerk. The person appointed by the Council to perform the duties of City
Clerk.
City Plan. The Comprehensive City Plan.
Code. The Municipal Code of Big Lake.
Council. The City Council of Big Lake.
Governing Body. The City Council.
Person. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, or other group acting as a unit. It also includes any executor,
administrator, trustee, receiver, or other representative appointed by law.
Whenever the word “person” is used in any section prescribing a penalty or
fine, it shall include the partners or members of any partnership or
corporation, and, as to corporation, the officers, agents, or members thereof
who are responsible for the violation.
Property. Tangible or intangible, real, personal, or mixed property.
Sidewalk. That portion of the right-of-way between the curb line and the
adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
State. The State of Minnesota.
Street. Any public way, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, alley or other
public thoroughfare. Each of said words shall include the others, and, if the
context permits, shall also include “sidewalks and the public right-of-way.”
§ 120.02 Other Definitions.
Certain chapters of this Code contain other definitions applicable particularly
to the chapter. In case of any conflict between the definitions in this section
and other definitions, the other definitions shall prevail in the chapters
where applicable.
§ 120.03 Minnesota Definitions to Apply.
Unless clearly in conflict with definitions or other provisions of this Code,
or otherwise clearly inapplicable, definitions established for the state by
statues or case law shall apply to this Code.
SECTION 130: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
§ 130.01 Petty Misdemeanor.
Whenever an act or omission is declared by this Code to be a petty misdemeanor,
any person violating the provision shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine
not to exceed the maximum allowed under state law.
§ 130.02 Misdemeanors.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided in this Code, any person violating
any provision of this Code, or any rule or regulation adopted in the pursuance
thereof, or any other provision of any code adopted in this Code by reference,
including any provision declaring an act or omission to be a misdemeanor, shall
be charged with a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be subject to a fine and/or
imprisonment in an amount or for a term not to exceed the maximums allowed by
state law plus, in either case, the costs of prosecution.
§ 130.03 Separate Violations.
Unless otherwise provided, each act of violation and every day on which a
violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense.
§ 130.04 City Personnel Liability.
The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any official duty
imposed by this Code shall not subject the officer or employee to the penalty
imposed for violation unless a penalty is specifically provided for such
failure.
SECTION 140: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
§ 140.01 Purpose.
It is the intent of the city to establish a procedure to provide an informal,
cost-effective, and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal citations
for City Code violations. The procedures herein established are intended to be
voluntary on the part of the offending party. It shall be the discretion of the
city to file a criminal citation in the County District Court in lieu of
following the administrative procedures established in this section.
(Ord. 2015-08, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 140.02 Definition of Administrative Offense.
For the purpose of this Code, the following definition shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Administrative Offense. A violation of or failure to comply with any provision
of the City Code or the assistance, authorization, or permission of a violation
of any provision of the City Code. Each day a violation exists constitutes a
separate and distinct administrative offense.
(Ord. 2015-08, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 140.03 Issuance of an Administrative Citation.
Any sworn member of the Police Department or any other person authorized to
enforce provisions of the City Code may issue an administrative citation upon
belief that an administrative offense has occurred. The citation must be in
writing and must be issued in person or by mail to the person responsible for
the violation. If the citation is based on a parking violation and the owner or
operator of the offending vehicle is not present, the individual issuing the
citation shall affix the written notice of the violation to the windshield
wiper or door handle of the vehicle. The citation must state the date, time,
and nature of the offense, the name of the issuing officer, the amount of the
scheduled fine, the date the fine must be paid, the place where payment must be
made, and the manner for withdrawing from the administrative citation process.
(Ord. 2015-08, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 140.04 Payment of Fine.
All persons receiving an administrative citation in accordance with this
section shall make payment of the fine set out by ordinance within seven days
of the date of issuance of the notice of violation. Payment shall be made by
mail or in person to the City Clerk or to the City Police Department.
(Ord. 2015-08, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 140.05 Withdrawal from Administrative Citation Process.
Within seven days of the date of issuance of the notice of violation, an
offender may withdraw from participation in the administrative citation process
established in this section by delivering written notice of withdrawal by mail
or in person to the City Clerk or to the City Police Department. The written
notice shall state the name of the individual, indicate whether they are
contesting the alleged violation, the amount of the penalty, and the reason and
facts upon which the individual is contesting the citation. If an individual
withdraws from the process, the city may thereafter file criminal charges in
accordance with state law and established court procedures. Failure to withdraw
from the process within the time specified in this subsection will be construed
as an offender’s election to participate in the city’s administrative citation
process.
(Ord. 2015-08, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 140.06 Failure of Offending Party to Pay Fine.
   Subd. 1.   If an offending party elects to participate in the administrative
procedures established in this section but fails to pay the applicable fine
within the time specified by ordinance, that fine will immediately constitute:
         1.   A special charge against the real property upon which the
violation occurred, if the property or improvements on the property was the
subject of the violation and the property owner was found responsible for that
violation; or
         2.   A personal obligation of the violator in all other situations.
   Subd. 2.   A special charge may be assessed against the property and
collected in the same manner as taxes. A personal obligation may be collected
by appropriate legal means. A late payment fee of 10% of the fine may be
assessed for each 30-day period that the fine remains unpaid after the due
date, to cover administrative costs. Alternatively, the city may elect to file
a criminal citation in the County District Court and to pursue collection of
all costs associated with the administrative procedure herein established.
(Ord. 2015-08, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 140.07 Fines.
The City Council shall establish the fine structure for administrative
citations on an annual basis. The administrative citation fine structure shall
be indicated on the annual city fee schedule as adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 2015-08, passed 6-23-2015)
CHAPTER 2: OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
      
200.   CITY ELECTION
      
205.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
210.   THE COUNCIL AND PUBLIC MEETINGS
      
220.   CITY ADMINISTRATOR
      
230.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
240.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
250.   PLANNING COMMISSION
      
260.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
270.   CITY ENGINEER
      
280.   ABANDONED PROPERTY
      
290.   PERSONNEL POLICIES AND CRIMINAL HISTORIES
Subsection
Section 200: City Elections
   
200.01   Definitions
   
200.02   Regular City Election
   
200.03   Special City Election
Section 205: General Provisions
Section 210: The Council and Public Meetings
   
210.01   Mayor’s Salary
   
210.02   Council Member Salary
   
210.03   Workers’ Compensation Coverage
   
210.04   Meetings
   
210.05   Presiding Officer
   
210.06   Minutes
   
210.07   Order of Business
   
210.08   Voting
   
210.09   Ordinance, Resolutions, Motions, Petitions, and Communications
   
210.10   Suspension or Amendment of Rules
   
210.11   Hearings
Section 220: City Administrator
   
220.01   Position Created
   
220.02   Duties
   
220.03   Compensation
Section 230: Fire Department
   
230.01   Fire Department Established
   
230.02   Appointment of Fire Chief
   
230.03   Duties and Powers of Chief
   
230.04   Assistant Chief
   
230.05   Personnel
   
230.06   Fire Marshal
   
230.07   Relief Association
   
230.08   Interference with Department
   
230.09   Minnesota State Fire Code
Section 240: Police Department
   
240.01   Establishment
   
240.02   Chief of Police
   
240.03   Police Chief Duties
   
240.04   Records
   
240.05   Duties of Police
   
240.06   Uniform and Badge
   
240.07   Extra Police
   
240.08   Police Reserve
   
240.09   Employment Background Checks
   
240.10   Licensing/Permitting Background Checks
Section 250: Planning Commission
   
250.01   Establishment of Commission
   
250.02   Membership
   
250.03   Officers
   
250.04   Meetings
   
250.05   Duties of the Commission
Section 260: Emergency Management
   
260.01   Policy and Purpose
   
260.02   Definitions
   
260.03   Emergency Management Department
   
260.04   Declaration of Emergency
   
260.05   Emergency Regulations
   
260.06   Finances
   
260.07   Conformity and Cooperation with Federal and State Authority
   
260.08   Extra Police
   
260.09   Liability
   
260.10   Penalty
Section 270: City Engineer
   
270.01   Establishment
   
270.02   Duties and Powers
Section 280: Abandoned Property
   
280.01   Abandoned Motor Vehicles
   
280.02   Other Abandoned Property
Section 290: Personnel Policies and Criminal Histories
SECTION 200: CITY ELECTIONS
§ 200.01 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
City. The City of Big Lake, County of Sherburne, State of Minnesota.
General Election. An election held at regular intervals on a day determined by
law at which the voters of the state or any of its subdivisions choose by
ballot public officials or presidential electors.
Special Election. An election held at any other time permitted by statute to
fill vacancies in municipal public offices which are held on dates pursuant to
M.S. § 205.10, subd. 3a, as it may be amended from time to time.
Vacancy. A vacancy occurs for the reasons stated in M.S. §§ 351.02 and 412.02,
as they may be amended from time to time, or other state law.
§ 200.02 Regular City Election.
   Subd. 1.   Date of Election. The regular city election shall be held
biannually on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in every
even numbered year.
   Subd. 2.   Terms and Transition.
         1.   The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term.
         2.   Two Council members shall be elected for four-year terms at each
biannual city election.
§ 200.03 Special City Election.
   Subd. 1.   Special Election Timing. If a vacancy occurs and a special
election to fill the unexpired term is required pursuant to M.S. § 412.02,
subd. 2a, as it may be amended from time to time, or if it is more than one
year until the next regular city general election at the time the vacancy is
declared, then a special election to fill the vacancy shall be held prior to
the next regular city general election. The special election shall be held at
the earliest date permitted by M.S. § 205.10, subd. 3a, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   Subd. 2.   Appointment to Vacancy. Pursuant to M.S. § 412.02, subd. 2a, as
it may be amended from time to time, a person shall be appointed by the Mayor
and City Council to fill the vacancy until the special election is held and the
winner of the special election is qualified to take office.
SECTION 205: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 205 Application of State Laws.
The provisions of the Government Data Practices Act, M.S. Ch. 13, the Opening
Meeting Law, M.S. Ch. 13D, and the laws relating to Gifts to Local Officials,
M.S. § 471.895, as these laws may be amended from time to time, apply to the
City Council and all boards and commissions of this city and their members.
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see M.S. §§
13.01 et seq.
SECTION 210: THE COUNCIL AND PUBLIC MEETINGS
§ 210.01 Mayor’s Salary.
The salary of the Mayor of the city shall be $500 per month ($6,000 yearly).
§ 210.02 Council Member Salary.
The salary for each Council member of the city shall be $400 per month ($4,800
yearly).
§ 210.03 Workers’ Compensation Coverage.
The city, Mayor, and City Council members shall be covered by the city’s
workers’ compensation plan.
§ 210.04 Meetings.
   Subd. 1.   Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the Council shall be held
on the second and fourth Wednesday of each calendar month at 6:00 p.m. Any
regular meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next following
business day at the same time and place. All meetings, including special and
adjourned meetings, shall be held in the City Council Chamber unless the
Council decides otherwise at a prior meeting, or meeting in the City Council
Chamber is impossible, then the new meeting location shall be posted.
   Subd. 2.   Workshops. Workshops of the Council shall be held on the second
and fourth Wednesday of each calendar month beginning at 5:00 p.m. Any
workshops falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next following business
day at the same time and place. All workshops, including special and adjourned
workshops, shall be held in the City Council Chamber unless the Council decides
otherwise at a prior meeting, or meeting in the City Council Chamber is
impossible, then the new workshop location shall be posted. Workshops can be
cancelled due to a lack of discussion items. Cancellation notices shall be
given in accordance with state law.
   Subd. 3.   Special Meetings. The Mayor or any two members of the Council may
call a special meeting of the Council upon at least 72 hours’ written notice to
each member of the Council. This notice shall be delivered personally to each
member or shall be left at the member’s usual place of residence with some
responsible person. Notice to the public shall be given in accordance with
state law.
   Subd. 4.   Emergency Meeting. An emergency meeting may be called by the
Mayor or any two members of the Council to discuss an item of such immediate
importance that the city or the general public will be at risk if the Council
were to delay discussion of the issue. Actual notice of the meeting must be
attempted to be given to all members of the Council, and notice provisions of
state law must also be met.
   Subd. 5.   Initial Meeting. At the first regular Council meeting in January
of each year, the Council shall:
         1.   Designate the depositories of city funds;
         2.   Designate the official newspaper;
         3.   Choose one of the Council members as acting Mayor, who shall
perform the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor
from the city or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a
successor has been appointed and qualifies;
         4.   Appoint such officers and employees and such members of boards,
commissions, and committees as may be necessary; and
         5.   Establish and appoint Council members to such Council committees
as are deemed appropriate for the efficient and orderly management of the city.
   Subd. 6.   Public Meetings. All Council meetings, including special and
continued meetings and meetings of Council committees, shall be conducted in
accordance with the State Open Meeting Law, being M.S. Chapter 13D, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   Subd. 7.   Quorum. At least a quorum of the Council shall be required at all
meetings before any business may be transacted except that a group less than a
quorum may adjourn a meeting as circumstances may require. A quorum shall be
three members of the Council.
§ 210.05 Presiding Officer.
   Subd. 1.   Who Presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the
Council. In the absence of the Mayor, the acting Mayor shall preside. In the
absence of both, the City Administrator shall call the meeting to order and
shall preside until the Council members present at the meeting choose one of
their number to act temporarily as presiding officer.
   Subd. 2.   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce
the rules of procedure herein prescribed, and determine without debate, subject
to the final decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and
order.
   Subd. 3.   Appeal Procedure. Any member may appeal to the Council a ruling
of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once
solely on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain the
ruling, but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion. The
appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present, including the presiding officer.
§ 210.06 Minutes.
   Subd. 1.   Who Keeps. Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the
City Clerk. In the Clerk’s absence, the presiding officer shall appoint a
secretary pro tem. Ordinances, resolutions, and claims need not be recorded in
full in the minutes if they appear in other permanent records of the City Clerk
and can be accurately identified from the description given in the minutes.
   Subd. 2.   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to
typewritten form, shall be signed by the City Clerk, and copies shall be
delivered to each Council member with the following regular Council meeting’s
agenda packet. At the next regular Council meeting following such delivery,
approval of the minutes shall be considered by the Council. The minutes need
not be read aloud, but the presiding officer shall call for any additions or
corrections. If there is no objection to a proposed addition or correction, it
may be made without a vote of the Council. If there is an objection, the
Council shall vote upon the addition or correction. If there are no additions
or corrections, the minutes shall stand approved.
§ 210.07 Order of Business.
   Subd. 1.   Order Established. Each meeting of the Council shall convene at
the time and place appointed for the meeting. Council business shall be
conducted in the following order unless varied by the presiding officer:
         1.   Call to order;
         2.   Pledge of Allegiance;
         3.   Roll call;
         4.   Open forum;
         5.   Proposed agenda;
         6.   Consent agenda;
         7.   Business;
         8.   Administrator’s report;
         9.   Mayor and Council reports and comments/questions;
         10.   Other;
         11.   Closed session (only if needed); and
         12.   Adjourn.
   Subd. 2.   Petitions and Agenda. Petitions and other papers addressed to the
Council shall be read by the City Administrator upon presentation to the
Council. The presentation of a copy to each Council member shall constitute a
reading. All persons desiring to present new business before the Council shall
inform the City Administrator at least seven days before said new business is
to be heard. The City Administrator may prepare an agenda of the new business
for submission to the Council on or before the time of the next regular
meeting.
§ 210.08 Voting.
The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any manner which
signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes of the members
on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. If any member is present
but does not vote, the minutes, as to his or her name, shall be marked “Present
Not Voting.”
§ 210.09 Ordinance, Resolutions, Motions, Petitions, and Communications.
   Subd. 1.   Signing and Publication Proof. Every ordinance and resolution
passed by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk,
and filed by the City Clerk in the ordinance or resolution book. Proof of
publication of every ordinance shall be attached and filed with the ordinance.
   Subd. 2.   Repeals and Amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or subdivision shall give the
number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or code number of the ordinance
or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. Each ordinance or resolution
amending an existing ordinance or resolution or part shall set forth in full
each amended section or subdivision as it will read with the amendment.
§ 210.10 Suspension or Amendment of Rules.
These rules may be suspended only by a two-thirds vote of the members present
and voting.
§ 210.11 Hearings.
   Subd. 1.   General. Unless otherwise provided in this Code, or by law, every
public hearing required by law, ordinance, or resolution to be held on any
legislative or administrative matter shall be conducted in accordance with this
section.
   Subd. 2.   Notice. Every hearing shall be preceded by ten days’ mailed
notice to all persons entitled by law, ordinance, or regulation unless only
published notice is required. The notice shall state the time, place, and
purpose of the hearing. Failure to give the notice or defects in it shall not
invalidate the proceedings if a good faith effort has been made to comply with
this subsection.
   Subd. 3.   Conduct of Hearing. At the hearing, each party in interest shall
have an opportunity to be heard and to present such evidence as is relevant to
the proceeding. The Council may adopt rules governing the conduct of hearings,
records to be made, and such other matters as it deems necessary.
   Subd. 4.   Record. Upon the disposition of any matter after hearing, the
Council shall have prepared a written summary of its findings and decisions and
enter the summary in the official Council minutes.
SECTION 220: CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 220.01 Position Created.
There is hereby continued the office of City Administrator which shall be
subject to the control and direction of the Mayor and the City Council.
References to the Administrator shall mean the City Administrator.
§ 220.02 Duties.
The City Administrator, under the control and direction of the Mayor and the
City Council, shall be charged with the following duties:
         1.   Supervise the management and the operation of the city office;
         2.   Supervise the administration of the health, building, streets,
water, sewer, engineering, and police departments, the liquor store, and city
parks;
         3.   Supervise the method and manner of maintaining city accounts and
for collection and payment of money within the limits provided by law and
providing for periodic reports to the City Council; and
         4.   Perform all other duties assigned by the Council.
§ 220.03 Compensation.
   Subd. 1.   The compensation to be paid to the City Administrator shall be
set initially by contract subject to approval by the City Council.
   Subd. 2.   Subsequent changes to the City Administrator’s compensation are
to be negotiated at contract review/renewal and/or implemented with the
standard cost of living increases approved by the City Council.
SECTION 230: FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 230.01 Fire Department Established.
There is hereby continued in this city a Volunteer Fire Department consisting
of a Chief, one or more Assistant Chiefs, not less than ten members, and as
many more as deemed necessary.
§ 230.02 Appointment of Fire Chief.
The Chief shall be appointed through a selection process and approved by the
Big Lake Township Board and City Council for a four-year term. The Chief’s
tenure of office shall depend upon his or her good conduct, his or her
efficiency, and the approval of the Joint Powers Board. The Chief may be
removed from office only for just cause and after a fair and impartial hearing
before the governing body of the Joint Powers Board of the Department upon ten
days’ written notice to the Chief.
§ 230.03 Duties and Powers of Chief.
The Chief shall be the administrative head of the Fire Department. In such
position, it shall be his or her duty to:
         1.   Recommend the management organization of the Department to the
Joint Powers Board;
         2.   Have control of all firefighting apparatus and equipment and be
solely responsible for its care and condition;
         3.   Head the budget committee of the Department;
         4.   Prepare projections describing what the Fire Department should
accomplish during periods of one to five years. These reports shall be adjusted
as frequently as changing conditions dictate and shall include predicted annual
budget requests for members and equipment as well as capitol expenditures;
         5.   Make reports to the City Council or to the public as required by
the Council;
         6.   Control work assignments so as to properly utilize the working
forces of the Department;
         7.   Ensure the proper training of the members of the Fire Department.
At least one meeting of the Fire Department members and at least one drill per
month shall be held. Such meetings and drills may be held on the same night if
sufficient time is allocated for each. Records shall be kept of the names and
the number of the firefighters present at each meeting or drill, what each
drill consists of, and any other pertinent information deemed necessary by the
Council or the State Fire Marshal;
         8.   To perform such other functions as are necessary to properly
administer the Fire Department and as may be assigned by the Council; and
         9.   Pursuant to the authority granted by the State Fire Code, the
Chief may, when he or she deems it necessary for potential life saving or
firefighting purposes, order any apartment complex or other structure with a
secured entry system to install a key box with appropriate keys inside to allow
the Fire Department immediate access to the structure.
§ 230.04 Assistant Chief.
In the absence or disability of the Fire Chief, the Assistant Chief shall
perform all the functions and exercise all the authority of the Chief. The
Assistant Chief shall perform such other duties as the Chief may from time to
time direct. The Assistant Chief shall be appointed by the same process as the
Chief.
§ 230.05 Personnel.
   Subd. 1.   Officers. All firefighters shall be appointed by the Council.
   Subd. 2.   Qualifications. The firefighters shall be able-bodied and not
less than 18 years of age, and meet requirements set by the Department’s rules
and regulations.
   Subd. 3.   Present Member. Persons who are members of the Fire Department at
the time of the adoption of this Code shall not be required to serve a
probationary period before receiving a firefighter’s rating.
   Subd. 4.   Compensation. The members and officers of the Fire Department
shall receive compensation as established from time to time by the Council by
resolution.
   Subd. 5.   Loss of Membership. To be in and remain in good standing in the
Fire Department, each officer, member, or probationary member shall attend at
least 50% of the monthly meetings and at least 50% of the monthly drills held
in any one year. In addition, no officer, member, or probationary member shall
be absent from three consecutive drills or calls, unless the absence is excused
by the officer in charge. The failure to so attend shall be deemed sufficient
cause for removal of the member from the Fire Department. Firefighters shall
continue as members of the Department during periods of good behavior, and may
be removed by the Council only for cause after a public hearing; however, the
Fire Chief shall have authority to suspend a member pending the public hearing.
Unless otherwise required by law, a member shall receive no pay while
suspended.
§ 230.06 Fire Marshal.
The responsibilities of this officer shall rest with the Fire Chief. He or she
may perform the following duties himself or herself or delegate them to a
subordinate. It shall be his or her duty to:
         1.   Enforce ordinances or other laws directed toward fire prevention;
         2.   Inspect, or cause to be inspected, all premises and cause the
abatement or removal of all fire hazards. Pursuant to such duty to cause to be
inspected all premises, he or she shall have the authority to obtain search
warrants if such are necessary to accomplish the inspection; provided, that the
applicable constructional requirements relating to the procurement of such
search warrants in effect at the time of the inspections are met;
         3.   Investigate, or cause to be investigated, the cause, origin, and
circumstances of each fire occurring within the Fire District by which property
has been destroyed or damaged when such destruction or damage exceeds $100
except that all fires of unknown origin shall be investigated; and, he or she
shall especially make investigation as to whether the fire was the result of
carelessness, accident, or design. All investigations shall begin within at
least two days of the occurrence of the fire; and
         4.   Make such reports as may, from time to time, be required by the
State Fire Marshal or the Council.
§ 230.07 Relief Association.
The members and officers of the Fire Department may organize into a relief
association. Before any benefits provided from the Special Fund of such
association are or become binding obligations of the city, they must first be
ratified by the Council. Similarly, any bylaw or articles of incorporation
changes which affect the original benefits paid from the Special Fund shall not
become binding on the city until ratified by the Council.
§ 230.08 Interference with Department.
It shall be unlawful for any person to give or make, or cause to be given or
made, an alarm of fire without probable cause, or to neglect or refuse to obey
any reasonable order of the Chief at a fire, or to interfere with the
Department in the discharge of its duties; and any person guilty of violating
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 230.09 Minnesota State Fire Code.
The State Fire Code (MSFC) and all amendments thereto, one copy of which is in
file in the office of the City Clerk, is hereby adopted as the Fire Code for
the city for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion. Every provision
contained in this code, except as modified or amended by this section, is
hereby adopted and made a part of this section as if fully set forth herein.
SECTION 240: POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 240.01 Establishment.
A Police Department is, by this section, continued. The head of the Department
shall be known as the Chief of Police, and the number of additional members of
the Department, together with their ranks and titles, shall be determined by
the Council by resolution. The compensation to be paid members of the Police
Department shall be fixed by the Council. Members of the Department shall be
appointed by the Council and be licensed peace officers in the state.
§ 240.02 Chief of Police.
The office of Chief of Police is hereby continued. He or she shall be appointed
by the Council and may be removed by the Council at will. The Chief shall be
under the direct supervision of the City Administrator.
§ 240.03 Police Chief Duties.
The Chief of Police shall perform all the duties by law conferred upon him or
her for the preservation of the public peace. He or she shall have control over
his or her Department and shall be solely responsible for its care and
condition. He or she shall make a report quarterly to the City Council, as to
the condition of the equipment and the needs of the Police Department. He or
she may submit additional reports and recommendations at any meeting of the
City Council and shall report suspensions by him or her or the Police
Department at the first meeting of the Council following such suspensions. He
or she shall be responsible for the proper training and discipline of the
members of the Police Department, and may suspend any member for refusal or
neglect to obey orders pending final action by the Council on his or her
discharge or retention.
§ 240.04 Records.
The Chief shall keep in a convenient form a complete record of his or her calls
and arrests. Such record shall include the time of same, the location, and such
other information as he or she may deem advisable or as may be required from
time to time by the City Council or applicable laws.
§ 240.05 Duties of Police.
Members of the Police Department shall enforce the laws applicable to the city,
bring violators before the court, and make complaints for offenses coming to
their knowledge. Members of the Police Department shall serve processes on
behalf of the city and shall serve such notices as may be required by the
Council or other authority. When the city is not a party to the proceedings
involved in the process or notice, the officer shall collect the same fees as
provided by law. All such fees shall be paid into the City Treasury.
§ 240.06 Uniform and Badge.
Each member of the Department shall, while on duty, wear a suitable badge and
uniform furnished by the city, except that the Chief may authorize the
performance of specific duties while not in uniform. When a member terminates
membership in the Department, the member shall immediately deliver to the city
the badge, insignias, uniform (unless purchased by the officer by means of a
clothing allowance or otherwise), and all other property of the city.
§ 240.07 Extra Police.
In case of riot or other law enforcement emergency, the Chief of Police may
appoint for a specified time as many special police officers as may be
necessary for the maintenance of law and order. During such term of
appointment, the special police officer shall have only those powers and
perform only those duties as shall be specifically assigned by the Chief of
Police.
§ 240.08 Police Reserve.
   Subd. 1.   Establishment. There is hereby created within the Police
Department a police reserve which shall consist of such number of volunteer
members as the Council deems necessary. The police reserve shall be under the
control and supervision of the Chief of Police. Members of the police reserve
shall be appointed by the Council and may be removed by it at any time. They
shall serve under the direction of the superior officers of the regular police
force and such others as the Chief may appoint from their own number.
   Subd. 2.   Duties. When assigned to duty by the Chief of Police, each police
reserve member shall have the same authority, duties, and obligations as
regular members of the Police Department, including the authority to issue
citations except as restricted in Subd. 5 below. Individual members may be used
as deemed necessary by the Chief of Police, but the entire police reserve shall
not be called to duty except upon order of the Mayor.
   Subd. 3.   Oath, Insignia. Each police member shall take the oath prescribed
by M.S. § 358.05, as it may be amended from time to time. Each member shall be
issued a badge, suitable items of clothing, and such other insignia or evidence
of identification as the Chief of Police may prescribe. Upon termination of
membership, a member shall surrender to the city all city property issued to
the member.
   Subd. 4.   Personnel Rules. Personnel code sections and rules applicable to
regular employees of the city do not apply to members of the police reserve,
but each such member shall be covered as a city employee under the workers’
compensation insurance policy of the city.
   Subd. 5.   Other Restrictions. No member of the police reserve shall
exercise any authority over the persons or property of others without
displaying identification as such member. No police reserve member shall make
arrests upon a warrant unless accompanied by a regular police officer. Only
police reserve members shall use such identification or otherwise represent
themselves to be members of the police reserve. No police reserve member shall
carry any firearm while on duty except as specifically authorized by the Police
Chief.
§ 240.09 Employment Background Checks.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this subsection is to
establish regulations that will allow law enforcement access to the state’s
Computerized Criminal History information for specified non-criminal purposes
of employment background checks for the positions described in subsection
240.07. Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time.
   Subd. 2.   Criminal History Employment Background Investigations. The City
Police Department is hereby required, as the exclusive entity within the city,
to do a criminal history background investigation on the applicants for all
part-time or full- time employees of the city, applicants for employment,
volunteers, independent contractors, and other positions that work with
children or vulnerable adults, unless the city’s hiring authority concludes
that a background investigation is not needed.
         1.   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen employment applicants, the Police Department is authorized to
access data maintained in the State Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions
Computerized Criminal History information system in accordance with BCA policy.
Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the Police
Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or
his or her designee. A summary of the results of the Computerized Criminal
History data may be released by the Police Department to the hiring authority,
including the City Council, the City Administrator, the City Clerk, or other
designee involved in the hiring process.
         2.   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake the
investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Chapter 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the
collection, maintenance, and use of the information. Except for the positions
set forth in M.S. § 364.09, as it may be amended from time to time, the city
will not reject an applicant for employment on the basis of the applicant’s
prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the position of
employment sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or
misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request
on this basis, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
            a.   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
            b.   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
            c.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment;
and
            d.   All competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
§ 240.10 Licensing/Permitting Background Checks.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this subsection is to
establish regulations that will allow law enforcement access to the state’s
Computerized Criminal History information for specified non-criminal purposes
of licensing and permitting background checks.
   Subd. 2.   Criminal History License/Permit Background Investigations. The
City Police Department is hereby required, as the exclusive entity within the
city, to do a criminal history background investigation on the applicants for
the following licenses/permits within the city, unless the city’s licensing/
permitting authority concludes that a background investigation is not needed:
         1.   All liquor licensing;
         2.   All lawful gambling permits;
         3.   All therapeutic massage licensing;
         4.   All peddler/transient merchant permits;
         5.   All tobacco licensing;
         6.   All taxi service permits;
         7.   All fireworks permits;
         8.   All trash hauler permits; and
         9.   Any other official city licensing/permitting.
   Subd. 3.   Data Access. In conducting the criminal history background
investigation in order to screen license/permit applicants, the Police
Department is authorized to access data maintained in the State Bureau of
Criminal Apprehensions Computerized Criminal History information system in
accordance with BCA policy.
   Subd. 4.   Application Authorization. Before the investigation is
undertaken, the applicant must authorize the Police Department by written
consent to undertake the investigation.
         1.   The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of M.S.
Chapter 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the collection,
maintenance, and use of the information.
         2.   Except for the positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, as it may be
amended from time to time, the city will not reject an applicant for a license
on the basis of the applicant’s prior conviction unless the crime is directly
related to the license sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross
misdemeanor, or misdemeanor with a jail sentence.
         3.   If the city rejects the applicant’s request on this basis, the
city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
            a.   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
            b.   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
            c.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment;
and
            d.   All competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
SECTION 250: PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 250.01 Establishment of Commission.
A City Planning Commission for the city is hereby established. The Commission
shall be the City Planning Agency authorized by M.S. § 462.354, subd. 1, as it
may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 250.02 Membership.
   Subd. 1.   Size and Appointments. The Planning Commission shall consist of
seven voting members who are residents of the city. The seven members, one of
which shall be a City Council member, shall be appointed by the City Council
and may be removed by a three-fourths vote of the Council.
   Subd. 2.   Terms. The members of the Commission shall be appointed for terms
of four years. Both original and successive appointees shall hold their offices
until their successors are appointed and qualified. Vacancies during the term
shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired portion of the term. Every
appointed member shall, before entering upon the discharge of his or her
duties, take an oath that he or she will faithfully discharge the duties of his
or her office. All members shall serve with compensation as determined from
time to time by the City Council. Compensation shall be based on attendance at
the meetings of the Commission. Commission members shall be eligible to receive
repayment for expenses incurred which are deemed as acceptable for
reimbursement by the City Council.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 250.03 Officers.
   Subd. 1.   Chair. The Commission shall elect a Chair from among its
appointed members for a term of one year. The Chair shall preside at all
meetings of the Planning Commission.
   Subd. 2.   Vice Chair. The Commission shall elect a Vice Chair from among
its appointed members for a term of one year. The Vice Chair shall act for the
Chair in his or her absence.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 250.04 Meetings.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each month. Any member
who misses more than three consecutive regular meetings per year may be
replaced by the City Council. A majority of the Commission members shall
constitute a quorum. It shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and
shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, and findings, which
record shall be a public record.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-28-2024)
§ 250.05 Duties of the Commission.
   Subd. 1.   General Duties. The Planning Commission shall have the powers and
duties assigned under M.S. §§ 462.351 through 462.364, as they may be amended
from time to time, by ordinances of the city, and by the Council.
   Subd. 2.   Comprehensive Plan. It shall be the duty of the Planning
Commission to prepare a Comprehensive Plan for the physical, economic, and
social development of the city, including, but not limited to, proposed public
buildings, and other similar developments, the use of property, the density of
population, and other matters relating to the development of the city. The
Comprehensive Plan may also include a land use plan, a community facilities
plan, a transportation plan, and recommendations for plan execution. After the
Council has adopted a Comprehensive Plan, the Commission shall periodically
review the Comprehensive Plan, and any ordinances and other policies the
Council has adopted to implement the Plan. After such review, it shall, to the
extent it deems necessary, prepare proposed revisions to the Comprehensive
Plan, or draft a proposed new Comprehensive Plan, and recommend it to the
Council in accordance with law.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-28-2024)
SECTION 260: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 260.01 Policy and Purpose.
   Subd. 1.   Ensure Preparedness. Because of the existing and increasing
possibility of the occurrence of disasters of unprecedented size and
destructiveness resulting from enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action,
or from tornado, fire, flood, earthquake, or other natural causes, and in order
to ensure that preparations of the city will be adequate to deal with such
disasters and generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect the
public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of the
people of the city, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
         1.   To establish a local Department of Emergency Management;
         2.   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during civil
defense emergencies; and
         3.   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between the city and
other political subdivisions of this state or other counties with respect to
the carrying out of civil defense functions.
   Subd. 2.   Coordination. It is further declared to be the purpose of this
section and the policy of the city that all civil defense functions of the city
be coordinated to the maximum extent practicable with the comparable functions
of the federal government, of this state, and of other states and localities,
and of private agencies of every type, to the end that the most effective
preparations and use may be made of the nation’s manpower, resources, and
facilities for dealing with any disaster that may occur.
§ 260.02 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Civil Defense Emergency. An emergency declared by the Governor under M.S. §
12.31, as it may be amended from time to time, pertaining to enemy attack, or
“Civil Defense Emergency” shall mean an emergency declared by the Mayor of the
city.
Emergency Management. The preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily
responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from
disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of nature, or from
sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material mishaps. These
functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services, police services,
emergency medical services, engineering, warning services, communications,
radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care, emergency
transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant protection,
temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions related to
civil protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental
for carrying out the foregoing functions. “Emergency Management” includes those
activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense” functions.
Emergency Management Forces. Any personnel employed by the city and any other
volunteer or paid member of the local Emergency Management Department engaged
in carrying on civil defense functions in accordance with the provisions of
this section or any rule or order thereunder.
§ 260.03 Emergency Management Department.
   Subd. 1.   Establishment. There is hereby continued within the city
government a Department of Emergency Management, which shall be under the
supervision and control of a Director of Emergency Management. The Department
of Emergency Management shall be organized into such divisions and bureaus,
consistent with state and local civil defense plans, as the Director deems
necessary to provide for efficient performance of local civil defense functions
during a civil defense emergency. The Emergency Management Department shall
perform civil defense functions within the city limits and, in addition, shall
conduct such functions outside the city limits as may be required pursuant to
the provisions of the State Emergency Management Act of 1996, being M.S.
Chapter 12, as it may be amended from time to time.
   Subd. 2.   Director. The Director shall be appointed by the Mayor with
approval of the Council and shall serve for a term collateral to the Mayor’s
term or two years, whichever is less. The Director may be reappointed. In a
civil defense emergency, the Director may be summarily removed or suspended by
the Mayor or his or her successor. At other times, he or she may be removed at
will upon decision of the City Council. The Council shall provide for the
Director’s salary by resolution and necessary expenses. The Director shall have
direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation of
the Emergency Management Department, subject to the direction and control of
the City Council. When the Director is removed summarily as aforementioned, he
or she shall have a hearing within 60 days of his or her summary dismissal, to
present his or her case, or sooner if possible, depending on the length and
severity of the disaster during his or her summary dismissal.
   Subd. 3.   Powers and Duties of the Director.
         1.   The Director, with the consent of the City Council, shall
represent the city on any regional or state organization for civil defense. He
or she shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political
subdivisions within the state for reciprocal civil defense aid and assistance
in a civil defense emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and he or
she shall present such agreements to the Council for its action. Such
arrangements shall be consistent with the State Civil Defense Plan and, during
a civil defense emergency, it shall be the duty of the Department of Emergency
Management and civil defense forces to render assistance in accordance with the
provisions of such mutual aid arrangements.
         2.   The Director shall make such studies and surveys of the manpower,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as he or she deems necessary
to determine their adequacy for civil defense and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of a civil defense emergency. He or she shall report to
the City Council annually at a regular Council meeting for February of each
year, or at his or her request, other times.
         3.   In accordance with the state and city civil defense plan, the
Director shall institute such training programs and public information programs
and shall take all other preparatory steps, including the partial or full
mobilization of civil defense forces in advance of actual disaster, as may be
necessary to the prompt and effective operation of the city civil defense plan
in time of a civil defense emergency. He or she may, from time to time, conduct
such practice air raid alerts or other civil defense exercises as he or she may
deem necessary, with approval of the City Council.
         4.   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all such
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend such services and facilities to the local department, in
cooperation with and under the direction of the Director, shall be responsible
for the planning and programming of such civil defense activities as will
involve the utilization of the facilities of his or her department.
         5.   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations
issued by the Governor with reference to civil defense.
         6.   The Director shall direct and coordinate the general operations
of all local civil defense forces during a civil defense emergency in
conformity with the controlling regulations and instructions of state civil
defense authorities. The heads of departments shall be governed by his or her
orders in respect thereto.
         7.   Consistent with the emergency management plan, the Director shall
provide and equip, at some suitable place in the city, a control center which
is required by the state emergency management plan, to be used during a civil
defense emergency as headquarters for direction and coordination of civil
defense forces. He or she shall arrange for representation at the control
center of city departments, public utilities, and other agencies authorized by
federal or state authority to carry on civil defense activities during a civil
defense emergency. He or she shall arrange for the installation at the control
center of necessary facilities for communication with and between heads of
civil defense divisions, the stations, and operating units of city services and
other agencies concerned with civil defense and for communications with other
communities and control centers within the surrounding area and with the
federal, state, and county agencies concerned.
   Subd. 4.   General Provisions on Emergency Management Workers.
         1.   Each person who is appointed to serve in the Emergency Management
Department shall, before entering upon his or her duties, take an oath in
writing before any officer of the State Department of Civil Defense or the
local Director. The oath shall be substantially in the form described by M.S. §
12.43, as it may be amended from time to time.
         2.   A civil defense volunteer shall be called into service only in
case of a civil defense emergency or a natural disaster for which the regular
municipal forces are inadequate or for necessary training and preparation for
such emergencies. All volunteers shall serve without compensation for their
services.
         3.   Each emergency management volunteer shall be provided with such
suitable insignia or other identification as may be required by the Director.
Such identification shall be in the form and style approved by the federal
government. No volunteer shall exercise any authority over the persons or
property of others without his or her identification of a volunteer or
otherwise represent himself or herself to be an authorized volunteer.
§ 260.04 Declaration of Emergency.
The Mayor, or in his or her absence, the acting Mayor, shall declare a local
civil defense emergency. The Director shall be consulted and his or her opinion
strongly weighed before the above mentioned declaration is executed whenever
time permits.
§ 260.05 Emergency Regulations.
   Subd. 1   Promulgation. Whenever necessary to meet a civil defense emergency
for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor or the
City Council, the Mayor or his or her successor may, by proclamation,
promulgate regulations, consistent with applicable federal or state law or
regulations, regarding the protection against air raids; the sounding of air
raid alarms; the conduct of persons and the use of property during alarms, the
repair, maintenance, and safe-guarding of essential public services, emergency
health, fire, and safety regulations, trial drills, or practice periods
required for preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to
protect public safety, health, and welfare in civil defense emergencies. No
regulation governing observation of enemy aircraft, air attack, alarms, or
illumination during air attacks shall be adopted or take effect unless approved
by the State Director of Civil Defense.
   Subd. 2.   Form. Every proclamation of emergency regulations shall be in
writing and signed by the Mayor or the City Council, shall be dated, shall
refer to the particular civil defense emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Administrator, where a
copy shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business
hours. Notice of the existence of such regulations and their availability for
inspection at the City Administrator’s office shall be conspicuously posted at
the front of the City Hall or other headquarters of the city and at such places
in the affected area as the Mayor shall designate in the proclamation.
Thereupon, the regulation shall take effect immediately or at such later time
as may be specified in the proclamation. By like proclamation, the Mayor or the
City Council may modify or rescind any such regulation. Such regulation
affecting limits outside the city shall always require Council approval. The
Director’s opinion should be weighed heavily in reaching a decision.
   Subd. 3.   Rescinding or Expiration. The City Council may rescind any such
regulation by resolution at any time. If not sooner rescinded, every such
regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after its effective date or at
the end of the civil defense emergency to which it relates, whichever occurs
first. Any ordinance, rule, or regulation inconsistent with any emergency
regulation promulgated by the Mayor and Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent that such conflict exists.
   Subd. 4.   Council Powers. During a civil defense emergency, the City
Council is, under the provisions of M.S. § 12.37, as it may be amended from
time to time, notwithstanding any statutory or charter provision to the
contrary, empowered to enter into contracts and incur obligations necessary to
combat the disaster by protecting the health and safety of persons and
property, and providing emergency assistance to the victims of the disaster.
The city may exercise such powers in the light of the exigencies of the
disaster without compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities,
prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of public work, entering into
contracts, incurring of obligations, employment of temporary workers, rental of
equipment, purchase of supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and
the appropriation and expenditures of public funds, for example, but not
limited to, publication of ordinances and resolutions, publication of call for
bids, provisions of civil service laws and rules, provisions relating to low
bids, and requirements for budgets.
§ 260.06 Finances.
There is hereby continued an account in the General Fund to be known as the
Emergency Management Account. Into this account shall be placed the proceeds of
taxes levied for civil defense, money transferred from other funds, gifts, and
other revenues of the Emergency Management Department. From it shall be made
expenditures for the operation and maintenance of the Emergency Management
Department and other expenditures for civil defense. Regular accounting,
disbursement, purchasing, budgeting, and other financial procedures of the city
shall apply to the Emergency Management Fund insofar as practicable.
§ 260.07 Conformity and Cooperation with Federal and State Authority.
Every officer and agency of the city shall cooperate with federal and state
authorities and with authorized agencies engaged in civil defense and emergency
measures to the fullest possible extent consistent with the performance of
their other duties. The provisions of this section and of all regulations made
thereunder shall be subject to all applicable and controlling provisions of
federal and state laws and of regulations and orders issued thereunder and
shall be deemed to be suspended and inoperative so far as there is any
conflict.
§ 260.08 Extra Police.
The City Council, with the cooperation of the Chief of Police, may appoint any
qualified person holding a position in any agency created under federal or
state authority for civil defense purposes as a special police officer of the
city, with such police powers and duties within the city indicant to the
functions of his or her position, not exceeding those of a regular police
officer of the city, as may be prescribed in the appointment. Every such
special police officer shall be subject to the supervision and control of the
Chief of Police and such other police officers of the city as the Chief may
designate. The appointment of special police officers shall be limited to a
situation where a declared civil defense emergency is declared in accord with
this section.
§ 260.09 Liability.
The liability of the city shall be in accord with the statutory and case law of
the state, for its actions under the State Emergency Management Act of 1996,
being M.S. Chapter 12, as it may be amended from time to time. The provisions
of this section shall not affect the right of any person to receive benefits to
which he or she would otherwise be entitled under this section or under the
Workers’ Compensation Law, being M.S. Chapter 176 et seq., as it may be amended
from time to time, or under any pension law, nor the right of any such person
to receive any benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 260.10 Penalty.
Any person who violates any provision of this section or of any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city officers or employees shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days.
SECTION 270: CITY ENGINEER
§ 270.01 Establishment.
There is hereby continued the office of the City Engineer, which shall be
subject to the control and direction of the City Council. The City Engineer
shall be registered or licensed under the laws of the state.
§ 270.02 Duties and Powers.
   Subd. 1.   The City Engineer shall be charged with the following duties.
         1.   The City Engineer shall assemble or prepare such plans,
specifications, blueprints, surveys, plats, reports, maps, profiles, charges,
estimates, assessment rolls, and other records relating to public property or
improvement as the Council may, by ordinance or resolution, direct.
         2.   The City Engineer shall inspect and supervise all construction,
installation, repair, and maintenance projects undertaken by or on behalf of
the city and shall take such measures with respect thereto as may be necessary
to safeguard the interest of the city and to ensure compliance with plans and
specifications, ordinances, rules, regulations, and laws pertaining to such
projects.
         3.   The City Engineer shall consult with, advise, and assist the City
Council and all other officials of the city on matters relating to engineering.
         4.   The City Engineer shall keep for the city a record of the
following: real property belonging to or used by the city; plats of land within
the city; traffic and street signs; street lights; grades and surfaces of
streets; public improvements within the city; special assessments; costs of
construction of public improvements; plats of the sewers and water lines of the
city; specifications for all street improvements, and such other records,
plans, specifications, blueprints, surveys, estimates, reports, profiles,
charges, and assessment rolls that may be assembled or prepared by or on behalf
of the city which pertain to public improvements or property of the city.
   Subd. 2.   The foregoing list of duties shall not be regarded as exclusive,
but the office of the City Engineer shall have such other duties related or
incidental thereto as may be necessary for the proper operation thereof,
including the direction of improvements to and maintenance of the city streets
and the operation of the city and sewage systems.
SECTION 280: ABANDONED PROPERTY
§ 280.01 Abandoned Motor Vehicles.
   Subd. 1.   Impoundment and Sale. The City Police Department shall take into
custody and impound any abandoned or unauthorized motor vehicle as defined by
M.S. § 168B.011, as it may be amended from time to time. It shall give notice
of the taking as provided by law, and if the owner or any lienholder does not
reclaim the vehicle within the period provided by law, it shall provide for the
sale of the vehicle to the highest bidder at public auction or sale following
two weeks’ published notice.
   Subd. 2.   Disposition of Proceeds. The proceeds of the sale of an abandoned
or unauthorized motor vehicle shall be placed in the General Fund of the city.
If the former owner or entitled lienholder makes application and furnishes
satisfactory proof of ownership or lien interest within 90 days of the sale,
the former owner shall be paid the proceeds of the sale of the vehicle less the
cost of towing, preserving, and storing the vehicle and all administrative,
notice, and publication costs incurred in its handling.
§ 280.02 Other Abandoned Property.
   Subd. 1.   Procedure. All other property lawfully coming into the possession
of the city shall be disposed of as provided in this subsection.
   Subd. 2.   Storage. The department of the city acquiring possession of the
property shall arrange for its storage. If city facilities for storage are
unavailable or inadequate, the department may arrange for storage at privately
owned facilities.
   Subd. 3.   Claim by Owner. The owner may claim the property by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the city any storage or maintenance
costs incurred by it. A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon release
to the owner.
   Subd. 4.   Sale. If the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the
city for 60 days, the property shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction conducted by the Chief of Police of the city after two weeks’ published
notice setting forth the time and place of the sale and the property to be
sold.
   Subd. 5.   Disposition of Proceeds. The proceeds of the sale shall be placed
in the General Fund of the city. If the former owner makes application and
furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale, the
former owner shall be paid the proceeds of the sale of the property less the
costs of storage and the proportionate part of the cost of published notice and
other costs of the sale.
SECTION 290: PERSONNEL POLICIES AND CRIMINAL HISTORIES
§ 290 Personnel Policies and Criminal Histories.
The city shall maintain a Personnel Policy which they shall revise from time to
time as may be necessary. All individuals seeking employment with the city
shall submit to criminal history check conducted by the City Police Department.
CHAPTER 3: LICENSING
Section
      
300.   GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
      
310.   CANNABIS RETAIL REGISTRATION
      
320.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
321.   MOBILE FOOD UNITS
      
325.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
335.   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING COLLECTION
      
340.   JUNKED AUTOS
      
350.   TOBACCO
      
360.   BINGO
      
370.   REGULATION OF LAWFUL GAMBLING
      
380.   ADULT USE BUSINESSES
      
390.   ANIMALS
      
391.   DANGEROUS DOGS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS
DOGS
      
395.   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
396.   FIREWORKS
Subsection
Section 300: General Licensing and Permit Provisions
   
300.01   Licenses and Permits
   
300.02   Fees
   
300.03   Duration of License
   
300.04   Transfers
   
300.05   Renewal
   
300.06   Inspection
   
300.07   Duties of License or Permittee
   
300.08   Suspension or Revocation
Section 310: Cannabis Retail Registration
   
310.01   Purpose
   
310.02   Definitions
   
310.03   Registration Required
   
310.04   Delegation of Registration Authority
   
310.05   Limitation of Registrations
   
310.06   Adoption of Sherburne County Controls
   
310.07   Compliance and Enforcement
Section 320: Peddlers, Solicitors, Transient Merchants
   
320.01   Definitions and Interpretation
   
320.02   Exceptions to Definitions
   
320.03   Licensing
   
320.04   License Exemptions
   
320.05   Ineligibility for License
   
320.06   Suspension and Revocation
   
320.07   Transferability
   
320.08   Registration
   
320.09   Prohibited Activities
   
320.10   Exclusion by Placard
   
320.11   Violations and Penalties
Section 321: Mobile Food Units
   
321.01   Purpose
   
321.02   Definitions
   
321.03   Applicability
   
321.04   Exemptions
   
321.05   Investigation, Approval, or Disapproval
   
321.06   Approval or Denial of Permit
   
321.07   Suspension or Revocation
   
321.08   Severability
   
321.09   Penalty
Section 325: Alarm Systems
   
325.01   Policy Statement
   
325.02   Definitions
   
325.03   Registration
   
325.04   New Alarm Systems and Users
   
325.05   Operation and Maintenance
   
325.06   False Alarms
Section 335: Solid Waste and Recycling Collection
   
335.01   Definitions
   
335.02   Hauler License
   
335.03   Collection Regulations
   
335.04   No Vested Rights
   
335.05   Suspension or Revocation of License
   
335.06   Scavenging Prohibited without License
   
335.07   Penalty
Section 340: Junked Autos
   
340.01   Definitions
   
340.02   Permit Required
   
340.03   License Plate Requirement
   
340.04   General Accumulation
   
340.05   Abatement
Section 350: Tobacco
   
350.01   Purpose
   
350.02   Definitions and Interpretations
   
350.03   License
   
350.04   Fees
   
350.05   Basis for Denial of License
   
350.06   Prohibited Sales
   
350.07   Vending Machines
   
350.08   Self-Service Sales
   
350.09   Responsibility
   
350.10   Compliance Checks and Inspections
   
350.11   Other Illegal Acts
   
350.12   Violations
   
350.13   Penalties
   
350.14   Exceptions and Defenses
   
350.15   Severability and Savings Clause
Section 360: Bingo
   
360.01   Purpose
   
360.02   Definitions
   
360.03   License or Permit
   
360.04   Prizes
   
360.05   Inspection and Investigation
   
360.06   Penalties
Section 370: Regulation of Lawful Gambling
   
370.01   Declaration of Policy, Purpose
   
370.02   Provisions of State Law Adopted
   
370.03   License Required
   
370.04   Application for License
   
370.05   Investigation Fee
   
370.06   Restrictions
   
370.07   Reports
   
370.08   Suspension, Revocation, Non-Renewal of Licenses
   
370.09   Age Restriction
Section 380: Adult Use Businesses
   
380.01   License Required
   
380.02   Application
   
380.03   License Fees
   
380.04   Term
   
380.05   Granting of License
   
380.06   Transfers
   
380.07   Persons Ineligible for License
   
380.08   Places Ineligible for License
   
380.09   Conditions of License
   
380.10   Violations and Penalties
   
380.11   Right of Appeal
Section 390: Animals
   
390.01   Definitions
   
390.02   Dogs and Cats
   
390.03   Pot-Bellied Pigs
   
390.04   Chickens
   
390.05   Honey Bee Keeping
   
390.06   Non-Domestic Animals
   
390.07   Farm Animals
   
390.08   Limit on Number of Animals
   
390.09   Nuisances
   
390.10   Animals Presenting a Danger to Health and Safety of City
   
390.11   Diseased Animals
   
390.12   Basic Care
   
390.13   Enforcing Officer
   
390.14   Pound
   
390.15   Impounding
   
390.16   Interference with Officers
   
390.17   Violations and Penalties
Section 391: Dangerous Dogs and Potentially Dangerous Dogs
   
391.01   Purpose and Intent
   
391.02   Definitions
   
391.03   Law Enforcement: Exemption
   
391.04   Dangerous Dogs, Designation
   
391.05   Dangerous Dogs, Registration
   
391.06   Dangerous Dogs, Requirements
   
391.07   Potentially Dangerous Dogs, Designation
   
391.08   Potentially Dangerous Dogs, Requirements
   
391.09   Microchip Identification
   
391.10   Confiscation
   
391.11   Destruction of Dogs in Certain Circumstances
   
391.12   Dog Ownership
   
391.13   Penalty
Section 395: Massage Establishments
   
395.01   Purpose
   
395.02   Finding of City Council
   
395.03   Definitions
   
395.04   License Required
   
395.05   Exceptions
   
395.06   License Application
   
395.07   License Fees
   
395.08   License Application Verification and Consideration
   
395.09   Persons Ineligible for License
   
395.10   Locations Ineligible for Therapeutic Massage Enterprise License
   
395.11   License Restrictions
   
395.12   Term; Renewal of License
   
395.13   Sanctions for License Violations
   
395.14   Suspension of License for Violations
   
395.15   Violations and Penalties
   
395.16   Severability
Section 396: Fireworks
   
396.01   Violations
   
396.02   Discharge Rules and Regulations
   
396.03   Governing Regulations
   
396.04   Acts Prohibited without Permit
   
396.05   Permit Application
   
396.06   Permit Fee
   
396.07   Terms and Conditions for Issuance of Permit
SECTION 300: GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
§ 300.01 Licenses and Permits.
   Subd. 1.   General Rule. Except as otherwise provided in this Code, all
licenses and permits granted by the city shall be governed by the provisions of
this chapter.
   Subd. 2.   Acts Prohibited. No person shall conduct any activity or use any
property for which a license or permit is required by law or this Code without
a currently valid license or permit for such activity or use.
   Subd. 3.   Application. Every application for a license or permit shall be
made to the City Administrator on a form provided by him or her. It shall be
accompanied by payment to the City Administrator of the prescribed fee. If,
after investigation, the City Administrator is satisfied that all requirements
of law and this Code have been met, he or she shall present the application to
the Council for action or, if the license or permit does not require Council
approval, he or she shall issue the license or permit.
   Subd. 4.   Bond. Where a bond is required for any license or permit, the
bond shall be a corporate surety bond executed on a form approved by the City
Attorney and shall be filed with the City Administrator before the license or
permit shall be issued. Except where otherwise provided, a bond shall be in the
amount of $3,000, conditioned that the licensee or permittee shall comply with
the applicable ordinance and laws pertaining to the licensed or permitted
activity and that the licensee or permittee will defend and indemnify the city
and save it harmless from all loss or damage by reason of inadequate work
performed by him or her or by reason of accident caused by the negligence of
the licensee or permittee, his or her agents, or employees.
   Subd. 5.   Insurance.
         1.   When a licensee or permittee is required to have in force a
policy of insurance, the policy shall be approved as to substance and form by
the City Attorney. The policy shall provide that it is non-cancelable without
15 days’ notice to the city, and the coverage shall be for the term of the
license or permit. Satisfactory evidence of coverage by insurance shall be
filed with the City Administrator before the license or permit is issued. Each
license or permit shall terminate upon termination of the required insurance
coverage.
         2.   Unless otherwise provided, a required policy of liability
insurance shall provide for protection in at least the following amounts:
            a.   For injuries, including death, therefrom sustained by any one
person: $100,000;
            b.   For injuries, including death, resulting therefrom, sustained
by two or more persons as the result of any one occurrence: $300,000; and
            c.   For property damage: $100,000.
§ 300.02 Fees.
   Subd. 1.   Fee Established. Except as specifically provided, all fees shall
be as set in a fee schedule to be adopted and amended from time to time by the
Council. The fee schedule shall be included as an appendix to this Code and is
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter as if set out here
in full.
   Subd. 2.   Prorated Fees. License and permit fees shall not be prorated
unless otherwise specified by this Code or by law.
   Subd. 3.   Refunds. License and permit fees shall not be refunded in whole
or in part unless otherwise specified by this Code or by law.
§ 300.03 Duration of License.
Unless otherwise specified, a license or permit shall be valid for a calendar
year or the part of the year for which it is issued and shall expire on
December 31, unless an earlier expiration date is specified.
§ 300.04 Transfers.
No license or permit issued under this Code may be transferred to any other
person. Where a license or permit relates to specific premises, the license or
permit shall not be changed to another location without approval of the Council
or other licensing authority.
§ 300.05 Renewal.
Applications for renewal of a license will be made to the City Administrator on
forms provided. The renewal application will contain the information required
for the original application plus any additional information required by the
City Administrator.
§ 300.06 Inspection.
   Subd. 1.   Authorized Personnel. Any city official or employee having a duty
to perform with reference to a license or permit under this Code, and any
police officer, may inspect and examine any licensee or permittee, his or her
business, or premises to enforce compliance with applicable provisions of this
Code. Subject to the provisions of Subd. 2 below, he or she may, at any
reasonable time, enter any premises for which a license or permit is required
in order to enforce compliance with this Code.
   Subd. 2.   Search Warrants. If the licensee or permittee objects to the
inspection of his or her premises, the city official or employee charged with
the duty of enforcing the provisions of this Code shall procure a valid search
warrant before conducting the inspection.
§ 300.07 Duties of Licensee or Permittee.
   Subd. 1.   Compliance Required. Every licensee and permittee shall have the
duties set forth in this section.
   Subd. 2.   Inspection. He or she shall permit, at reasonable times,
inspections of his or her business and examination of his or her books and
records by authorized officers and city employees.
   Subd. 3.   Compliance with Law. He or she shall comply with laws,
ordinances, and regulations applicable to the licensed or permitted business,
activity, or property.
   Subd. 4.   Display of License or Permit. He or she shall display the
license, permit, or other insignia given him or her as evidence of the license
or permit in a conspicuous place on the premises, vehicle, or device to which
the license or permit relates. If the license or permit is not so related, the
license or permit shall be carried on the licensee’s or permittee’s person
whenever he or she is carrying on the licensed or permitted activity.
   Subd. 5.   Unlawful Disposition. The licensee or permittee shall not lend or
give to any other person his or her license or license insignia or permit.
§ 300.08 Suspension or Revocation.
The Council may suspend, for a period not exceeding 60 days, or revoke any
license or permit for violation of any provision of law, ordinance, or
regulation applicable to the licensed or permitted activity or property. Except
where mandatory revocation is provided by law without notice and hearing and
except where suspension may be made under the law without notice and hearing,
no suspension or revocation shall be enforced until the licensee or permittee
has been given notice of the alleged violation and has been given the
opportunity to be heard at a public hearing.
SECTION 310: CANNABIS RETAIL REGISTRATION
§ 310.01 Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to implement the provisions of M.S. Chapter 342,
which authorizes the city to protect the public health, safety, welfare of
residents by regulating cannabis businesses within the legal boundaries of Big
Lake.
(Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-22-2025)
§ 310.02 Definitions.
Unless otherwise defined herein, all terms in this section shall have the
meaning given to them by M.S. § 342.01, as amended.
Cannabis Retail Business. Any business or entity making retail sales of
cannabis, cannabis products, or lower-potency hemp edibles to consumers,
including the retail location(s) of a cannabis microbusiness, cannabis
mezzobusiness, cannabis retailer, medical cannabis combination business, or
lower-potency hemp edible retailer.
(Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-22-2025)
§ 310.03 Registration Required.
   Subd. 1.   No cannabis retail business may operate within the City of Big
Lake without having a currently active retail registration.
   Subd. 2.   Any cannabis retail business that sells to a customer or patient
without a valid retail registration allowing that sale shall incur a civil
penalty of up to $2,000 for each violation.
(Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-22-2025)
§ 310.04 Delegation of Registration Authority.
The City of Big Lake has delegated its registration authority to Sherburne
County pursuant to M.S. § 342.22, subd. 1. Cannabis retail businesses shall
obtain a registration from Sherburne County by following any and all procedures
required by the county, including but not limited to as required for initial
registration, registration renewal, or location change. The City of Big Lake
retains all planning and zoning authority and shall be responsible for all
planning and zoning related matters. Sherburne County may not issue a retail
registration unless the proposed cannabis retail business complies with all
land use regulations of the City of Big Lake.
(Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-22-2025)
§ 310.05 Limitation of Registrations.
The City of Big Lake hereby limits the number of active retail registrations
issued to any cannabis retailers, cannabis mezzobusinesses, and cannabis
microbusinesses to no fewer than one registration for every 12,500 city
residents. If the number of available registrations decreases, any then-
existing cannabis retail business may continue to obtain renewal of its
registration.
(Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-22-2025)
§ 310.06 Adoption of Sherburne County Controls.
The City of Big Lake hereby adopts Sherburne County Ordinance 280 relating to
the regulation and registration of cannabis retail businesses. All cannabis
retail businesses within the City of Big Lake shall abide by the requirements
of Sherburne County Ordinance 280, as amended, except that to the extent that
the City of Big Lake has sign or advertising ordinances that are more
restrictive than the provisions of Sherburne County Ordinance 280, in which
case the city ordinances shall apply.
(Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-22-2025)
§ 310.07 Compliance and Enforcement.
Nothing in this section limits the ability of the City of Big Lake to inspect
for compliance with city or county ordinance or state law or to bring
enforcement action to secure compliance with ordinance and state law, including
by seeking injunctive relief or criminal penalties.
(Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-22-2025)
SECTION 320: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
§ 320.01 Definitions and Interpretation.
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall include
the plural, and the plural shall include the singular. The masculine shall
include the feminine and the neuter, and vice-versa. The term “shall” means
mandatory, and the term “may” is permissive. For the purpose of this section,
the following definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
Non-Commercial Door-to-Door Advocate. A person who goes door-to-door for the
primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social, or other
ideological beliefs. For purposes of this chapter, the term “door-to-door
advocate” shall fall under the term “solicitor” and include door-to-door
canvassing and pamphleteering intended for non-commercial purposes.
Peddler. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise, or other personal property, that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. The term “peddler” shall mean the same as the term
“hawker.”
Person. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation, partnership,
or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships, and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent, or employee.
Regular Business Day. Any day during which the City Hall is normally open for
the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law shall
not be counted as regular business days.
Solicitor. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property, or services, of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term “solicitor” shall mean
the same as the term “canvasser.”
Transient Merchant. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a vehicle,
trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front for the
purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell, and
delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property,
and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for more than
14 consecutive days.
§ 320.02 Exceptions to Definitions.
For the purpose of the requirements of this section, the terms “non-commercial
door-to-door advocate,” “peddler,” “solicitor,” and “transient merchant” shall
not apply to any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods,
wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property, to a retailer of the
item(s) being sold by the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any
person who makes initial contacts with other people for the purpose of
establishing or trying to establish a regular customer delivery route for the
delivery of perishable food and dairy products such as baked goods and milk,
nor shall they apply to any person making deliveries of perishable food and
dairy products to the customers on his or her established regular delivery
route. In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of “non-commercial door-to-door advocate,”
“peddlers,” “solicitors,” and “transient merchants,” as shall be anyone
conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or any officer of the
court conducting a court ordered sale. Exemption from the definitions for the
scope of this section shall not excuse any person from complying with any other
applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
§ 320.03 Licensing.
   Subd. 1.   County License Required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S.
Chapter 329, as it may be amended from time to time.
   Subd. 2.   City License Required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
section, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the city.
   Subd. 3.   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business
as a peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business
days before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for
a license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available
from the office of the City Administrator. All applications shall be signed by
the applicant. All applications shall include the following information:
         1.   Applicant’s full legal name;
         2.   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
         3.   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like);
         4.   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence;
         5.   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence;
         6.   Full legal name of any and all business operation(s) owned,
managed, or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or
agent;
         7.   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any);
         8.   Any and all business related telephone number(s) of the
applicant;
         9.   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
         10.   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily
license;
         11.   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct
business, and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of
days he or she will be conducting business in the city (maximum of 14
consecutive days);
         12.   Any and all address(es) and telephone number(s) where the
applicant can be reached while conducting business within the city, including
the location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
         13.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been
convicted within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or
misdemeanor for violation of any state or federal statute or any local
ordinance, other than traffic offenses;
         14.   A list of the most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
         15.   Proof of any required county license;
         16.   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
         17.   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided; and
         18.   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council.
   Subd. 4.   Fee. All applications for a license under this section shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the city’s fee schedule as adopted from
time to time by the Council.
   Subd. 5.   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment
of the license fee, the City Administrator shall determine if the application
is complete. If the Clerk determines that the application is incomplete, the
Clerk shall inform the applicant of the required necessary information which is
missing. The Administrator shall review the application and order any
investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the information
provided with the application. Within ten regular business days of receiving
the application from the applicant, the City Administrator shall decide whether
or not to issue the license. If the Administrator rejects the application, the
applicant shall be notified in writing of the Administrator’s decision, the
reason for the denial, and of his or her right to appeal the denial by
requesting, within 20 days of receiving the notice of rejection, a public
hearing to be heard within 20 days of the date of the request. The final
decision of the Council following the public hearing shall be appealable by
petitioning the State Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
   Subd. 6.   Duration. An annual license granted under this section shall be
valid for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted
under this section shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
§ 320.04 License Exemptions.
No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to sell, or to
take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced, cultivated, or
raised on any farm. No license shall be required of any person going from
house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other
type of place-to-place when such activity is for the purpose of exercising that
person’s State or Federal Constitutional rights (i.e., freedom of speech,
press, religion, and the like) except that this exemption may be lost if the
person’s exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity. Professional fund raisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
section.
§ 320.05 Ineligibility for License.
The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this section:
         1.   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
         2.   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
         3.   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from
the date of the application for any violation of any federal or state statute
or regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the
person’s ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought
in an honest and legal manner or that will not adversely affect the health,
safety, and welfare of the residents of the city. Such violations shall
include, but not be limited to: burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud,
unlawful business practices, and any form of actual or threatened physical harm
against another person;
         4.   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued
to the applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler,
solicitor, or transient merchant; and/or
         5.   The applicant is determined to have a bad business reputation.
Evidence of a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the
existence of more than one substantiated complaint(s) against the applicant
with the Better Business Bureau, the Attorney General’s office, or other
similar business or consumer rights office or agency, within the preceding 12
months, or such complaints filed against the applicant within the preceding
five years.
§ 320.06 Suspension and Revocation.
   Subd. 1.   Any license issued under this section may be suspended or revoked
at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the following:
         1.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statements on the
application form;
         2.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made during the
course of the licensed activity;
         3.   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under subsection 320.05; or
         4.   Violation of any provision of this section.
   Subd. 2.   The suspension or revocation of any license issued for the
purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct business as peddlers or
transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall serve as a suspension or
revocation of each such authorized person’s authority to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee whose license is
suspended or revoked.
   Subd. 3.   Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
section, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violation(s) and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing
on the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or, if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   Subd. 4.   Upon receiving the notice provided in Subd. 3 above, the licensee
shall have the right to request a public hearing. If no request for a hearing
is received by the City Administrator within ten regular business days
following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with the suspension
or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a public hearing
is requested within the stated timeframe, a hearing shall be scheduled within
20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular business days of the
hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its decision.
   Subd. 5.   If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to the
health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a peddler or
transient merchant licensed under this section, the Council may immediately
suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to hold a
subsequent public hearing as prescribed in Subd. 4 above.
   Subd. 6.   Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
§ 320.07 Transferability.
No license issued under this section shall be transferred to any person other
than the person to whom the license was issued.
§ 320.08 Registration.
All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of this
section under subsection 320.04, shall be required to register with the city. A
non-commercial door-to-door advocate shall not be required to register.
Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license application,
but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration
form, the City Administrator shall issue to the registrant a certificate of
registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of registration shall
be non-transferable.
§ 320.09 Prohibited Activities.
No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
         1.   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by
means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any
other noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
         2.   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian
traffic on any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way;
         3.   Conducting business in such a way as to create a threat to the
health, safety, and welfare of any individual or the general public;
         4.   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
         5.   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person;
         6.   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or
service being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler,
solicitor, or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the
city solely based on the city having issued a license or certificate of
registration to that person; or
         7.   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or
to otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating, or abusive.
§ 320.10 Exclusion by Placard.
No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least three and three-quarter
inches long and three and three-quarter inches wide with print of at least 48-
point in size stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors, or Transient Merchants,” or
“Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable
statement. No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove,
deface, or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
§ 320.11 Violations and Penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate violation
for the purposes of this section.
SECTION 321: MOBILE FOOD UNITS
§ 321.01 Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to protect the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the community through the establishment of standards to
ensure that mobile food units, as defined herein, are appropriately located,
licensed, and inspected, do not impede vehicular access, traffic flow or
circulation, or create public safety hazards.
§ 321.02 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Commissary. A permanent, state-licensed location which services food trucks,
including, but not limited to, the provision of food storage, paper goods and
supplies, waste and grease disposal, and food preparation.
Lakeside Park Vendor Permit. A vendor permit issued by the city to a mobile
food unit to vend at Lakeside Park, 101 Lakeshore Drive, Big Lake, MN.
Mobile Food Unit. A food and beverage service establishment that is a vehicle-
mounted unit, such as:
         1.   “Motorized or Trailer” shall be defined as any self-propelled
vehicle or fully contained trailer, licensed by the state to operate on public
streets and roadways, which vends food (either prepackaged, prepared in the
unit, or at a commissary) at retail for immediate consumption by the customer.
Said vehicle and/or trailer may also be referred to herein as “unit.”
         2.   A unit operating in conjunction with a permanent business
licensed under M.S. Chapter 157, as it may be amended from time to time, at the
site of the permanent business by the same individual or company, and readily
moveable, without disassembling, for transport to another location; and a self-
contained unit, in which food is stored, cooked, and prepared for direct sale
to the consumer.
         3.   “Food Cart” shall be defined as a food and beverage service
establishment that is a non-motorized vehicle self-propelled by the operator.
         4.   “Ice Cream Truck” shall be defined as a motor vehicle utilized as
the point of retail sales of pre-wrapped or pre-packaged ice cream, frozen
yogurt, frozen custard, flavored frozen water, or similar frozen dessert
products.
Vend or Vending. The process of the transfer of a food product from the unit
operator to a customer. Vending begins when the unit initially stops in a
location at which customers can access the unit and continues until the unit
leaves that location.
§ 321.03 Applicability.
Notwithstanding any contrary provision of any city ordinance, regulation, or
rule, mobile food units shall be licensed and located as provided in this
section.
   Subd. 1.   Permit Required. Within the city, no person shall vend from a
mobile food unit without first having obtained a permit to do so from the city.
         1.   Form. An application for a permit shall be submitted to the city
on forms prepared by the city.
         2.   Required Information. The applicant shall file with the
application such information that will clearly establish the times and places
where the applicant desires to operate; the applicant shall describe the
physical characteristics of the vehicle/unit being used; the applicant shall
describe products to be sold and any other information the city may require.
Mobile food unit applicants wishing to operate on any publicly owned land,
right-of- way, or street located in a residential district, or any city park,
shall be required to meet all requirements listed under subsection 321.05.
   Subd. 2.   Fees. All applications for a permit under this section shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the city’s fee schedule as adopted from
time to time by the Council.
         1.   Proration of any fee in this section is not allowed.
         2.   There shall be no refunding of paid fees, nor shall a permit be
transferrable.
         3.   A separate permit shall be required for each mobile food unit,
regardless of ownership, and the approved permit shall be displayed on or
within the unit, visible from the outside of the unit, whenever the unit is
vending.
   Subd. 3.   Department of Health License Requirement. Applicants must provide
evidence of current licensing of the unit by the State Department of Health,
the State Department of Agriculture, or other approved Department of Health
licensing authority.
   Subd. 4.   Term of Permit.
         1.   Annual Permits. Permits issued as an annual permit shall expire
at 11:59 p.m. on December 31 of each year.
         2.   Termed Permit.
            a.   Termed permits are issued on a one- to four-day term, or a
five- to ten-day term. Dates of vending are not required to be concurrent.
            b.   All permits issued for a specific term must adhere to the
dates allowed to vend identified on the applicant’s permit.
            c.   Termed permit fees shall not be prorated unless otherwise
specified by this Code or by law.
   Subd. 5.   Insurance Requirements.
         1.   The applicant shall carry a general policy of liability insurance
which shall provide a limit of coverage of not less than $300,000/$100,000 for
bodily injury and $25,000 for property damage. Mobile food units operating on
any public property must provide a certificate of insurance showing the city
listed as coinsured.
         2.   The insurance policy required by this section shall further
provide that no cancellation of said insurance policy, for any cause, may be
made by the insured or the insurance company without first giving 30 days’
notice to the city, in writing, of the intention to cancel.
   Subd. 6.   Sound Devices. No person operating a mobile food unit shall
shout, make any cryout, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any sound device,
including any loud speaking radio or sound amplifying system upon any public
property, or upon any private premises in the city where sound of sufficient
volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be capable of being plainly heard
upon public property, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods,
wares, or merchandise which such permittee proposes to sell, unless prior
approval with conditions is received from the city.
   Subd. 7.   Mobile Food Unit Operations.
         1.   At no time shall any sales be made from a mobile food unit while
it is in motion.
         2.   Shall not employ or utilize any signs that are not attached
directly to the vehicle/trailer/unit. Signs may not project above the unit, nor
more than six inches from the side of the unit. No flashing, strobing, or
intermittent lighting is allowed.
         3.   No external seating may be utilized while operating on public
property.
         4.   No other equipment may be utilized that is not fully contained
within the vehicle/trailer/unit while operating on public property.
         5.   Any generator in use must be self-contained and fully screened
from view, and operate so as not to be deemed a nuisance.
         6.   Operations shall be limited to the number of days indicated on
the applicant’s state license.
         7.   Applicant shall provide waste disposal for litter and garbage
generated by the operation of the mobile food unit, and shall clean all such
litter and garbage before moving from the location.
         8.   The mobile food unit and vendor shall obey the orders of any
traffic control officer, peace officer, zoning official, or inspector, and
shall be open to inspection during all open hours.
         9.   Hours of Operation.
            a.   Public Property. Hours of vending operation shall be allowed
from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. An exemption of this requirement would require
approval from the city.
            b.   Private Property. Hours of vending operation shall be allowed
from 7:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. An exemption of this requirement would require
approval from the city.
   Subd. 8.   Mobile Food Units Prohibitions. Mobile food units are prohibited
from the following vending activity:
         1.   Vending is not allowed at Lakeside Park located at 101 Lakeshore
Drive without having first obtained a Lakeside Park vendor permit issued by the
city.
         2.   Vending is not allowed within 500 feet of the property boundary
of Lakeside Park without having first obtained a Lakeside Park vendor permit
issued by the city.
         3.   Vending is not allowed on any publicly owned highway or county
road within the city.
         4.   Vending is not allowed within 150 feet of the property line of
any restaurant within the city.
         5.   Vending is not allowed within 300 feet of a community event for
which the city has issued a special event permit, unless they are specifically
authorized by the event sponsor to participate in the event. The terms of the
special event permit shall apply.
   Subd. 9.   Location or Placement.
         1.   On Public Property.
            a.   No unit shall occupy more than two parking stalls.
            b.   In no case shall a unit vend while occupying a traffic lane,
parked on a sidewalk, or in any location which obstructs or impedes traffic.
            c.   The unit shall vend only from the side of the vehicle away
from moving traffic and as near as possible to the curb or side of the street.
            d.   The unit shall not vend to any person standing in the traveled
portion of any public street.
            e.   On public streets, no unit shall vend within 60 feet of the
intersection of two or more public streets, nor within 30 feet of a driveway
which enters onto a public street.
            f.   No unit shall vend while in motion.
            g.   There shall be no overnight parking of food trucks/vendors on
any public property.
            h.   Connection of the unit to any public utilities is strictly
prohibited.
         2.   On Private Property. Mobile food units are allowed to operate on
private property zoned retail, commercial, or industrial, as expressly
authorized by the owner/manager/agent for the private property, only for the
length of time authorized by their state license, and only upon issuance of a
city mobile food unit permit.
§ 321.04 Exemptions.
The following are exempt from mobile food unit licensing requirements:
         1.   Mobile food units which are vending under a special event permit
issued by the city are allowed to operate under that special event permit as
authorized by the organizers/managers of the event, at the location of, and
for, the duration of the event;
         2.   Appropriately licensed caterers are exempted from this section
for catered events;
         3.   Mobile food units which are vending at a school, church, or other
non-profit owned land for a non-profit event;
         4.   Mobile food units which are hired to vend on private property for
private events located in any residential or agriculture zoned property. The
mobile food units must be fully contained on private property; and
         5.   Mobile food units owned and operated by a commercial food
business located in the city.
§ 321.05 Investigation, Approval, or Disapproval.
The city may conduct such background checks as the city deems necessary and
prudent when considering mobile food unit applications. Mobile food unit
applicants wishing to operate on any publicly owned land, right-of-way, or
street located in a residential district, or in any city park, shall be
required to undergo a background check that may include, but is not limited to,
a driver’s license check and a criminal history check, for the protection of
the public good.
§ 321.06 Approval or Denial of Permit.
   Subd. 1.   Approval or Denial. The city shall approve or deny the
application in the manner prescribed in this section within a reasonable period
of time. The following shall be grounds for denying a permit:
         1.   Failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the city as part of the application process;
         2.   Failure of the applicant to complete the application and/or pay
any required fee;
         3.   When an applicant has a bad business reputation. Evidence of a
bad business reputation may include prior revocations of any permit or license,
prior convictions for violation of any federal, state, or local law or which
adversely reflects upon the person’s ability to conduct the business for which
the permit is being sought, or prior complaints with the city, Better Business
Bureau, State Attorney General, or other similar business or consumer rights
office;
         4.   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from
the date of application, for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner or that will not adversely affect the health, safety,
and welfare of the residents of the city. Such violations shall include, but
not be limited to: burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful
business practices, and any form of actual or threatened physical harm against
another person;
         5.   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued
to the applicant for the purpose of conducting a mobile food unit or similar
business transaction;
         6.   The denial, within the last year, of any license or permit
application for the purpose of conducting a mobile food unit or similar
business transaction; or
         7.   Failure to follow all federal, state, and local regulations,
including failure to be registered, licensed, or permitted if such
registration, license, or permit is required by any federal, state, or local
regulation.
   Subd. 2.   Appeal. Any permit applicant aggrieved by the denial of a permit
may appeal by filing with the City Administrator within ten days of the date of
mailing of the notice of denial, a written statement requesting a hearing
before the City Council and setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. A
hearing shall be held within 30 days of receipt of the request. Notice of the
hearing shall be given by the City Administrator in writing, setting forth the
time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
permit applicant at his/her last known address at least five days prior to the
date set for hearing, or shall be delivered by a police officer in the same
manner as a summons at least three prior to the date set for hearing.
§ 321.07 Suspension or Revocation.
   Subd. 1.   Revocation. Permits issued under the provisions of this section
may be revoked after notice and a hearing conducted by the City Administrator,
for any of the following causes: violation of this section; violation of
federal, state, or local law, rule, or regulation relating to mobile food
units.
   Subd. 2.   Notice. Notice of the hearing for revocation of a permit shall be
given by the City Administrator in writing, setting forth specifically the
grounds of complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be
mailed, postage prepaid, to the permit holder at his or her last known address
at least five days prior to the date set for hearing, or shall be delivered by
a police officer in the same manner as a summons at least three days prior to
the date set for hearing.
   Subd. 3.   Appeal. The decision of the City Administrator following a
hearing as provided for in this section can be appealed by petitioning the City
Council. The appeal must be delivered to the City Administrator in writing
within ten days of the date of mailing of the City Administrator’s decision.
   Subd. 4.   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Administrator,
imminent harm to the health or safety of the public may occur because of the
actions of any person permitted under this section, the City Administrator may
immediately suspend the person’s permit and in such event shall provide notice
to the person of the right to a post-suspension hearing pursuant to the
procedures in § 321.06, Subd. 2.
§ 321.08 Severability.
If any provision of this section is found to be invalid for any reason by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining provisions shall
not be affected.
§ 321.09 Penalty.
Any violation of this section, including, but not limited to, the vending
operation of a mobile food truck within the city without a permit issued
pursuant to this section, shall be a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with
the penalties established by Minnesota Statutes.
SECTION 325: ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 325.01 Policy Statement.
The City Council deems it necessary to provide for regulation of alarm systems
used to summon public safety services; to establish alarm user fees for false
alarms; and to establish a system administering alarm systems. The purpose of
this section is to provide for a high level of service to alarm users and to
protect the public safety services of the city from misuse by alarm users whose
alarm systems repeatedly generate false alarms.
§ 325.02 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Alarm System. An assembly of equipment and devices (or a single device such as
a solid state unit) arranged to signal the presence of a hazard. For the
purposes of this section, the alarm, when triggered, must be directly connected
to a central monitoring agency which then notifies the Police and/or Fire
Departments of an emergency to which public safety personnel must respond, or
may emit an audible signal which will require urgent attention and to which
public safety personnel are expected to respond. “Alarm system” does not
include audible alarms affixed to automobiles.
Alarm User. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
or organization of any kind on whose premises an alarm system is maintained.
“Alarm user” includes persons occupying dwelling units for residential
purposes.
False Alarm. Any activation of an alarm system that results in a response by
the Police or Fire Department where an emergency situation does not exist.
“False alarm” includes, but is not limited to, activation of an alarm system
through mechanical failure, malfunction, improper installation, or the
negligent use or maintenance of the alarm system by its owner or lessee or by
the owner’s or lessee’s employees or agents. “False alarm” does not include
activation of the alarm by utility company power outages or by climatic
conditions such as tornadoes, lightning, other violent conditions of nature, or
any other conditions which are clearly beyond the control of the alarm
manufacturer, installer, owner, and user. “False alarm” does not include
activation of an alarm system as the result of an effort or order to upgrade,
install, test, or maintain the system, if the city and, where applicable,
central monitoring agency for the alarm system are each notified in advance of
any such upgrade, installation, test, or maintenance.
§ 325.03 Registration.
Every alarm user shall be required to register each alarm system on the alarm
user’s premises on a form provided by the city. Registrations are not
transferable from one person to another or from one location to another.
§ 325.04 New Alarm Systems and Users.
No alarm fee shall be chargeable against an alarm user until 30 days after a
new registration is received by the city. This grace period may be extended
where there is a problem with the alarm system and the alarm user has notified
the city in writing of the problem and the anticipated correction time.
§ 325.05 Operation and Maintenance.
An alarm user shall:
         1.   Maintain the premises and the alarm system in a manner that will
minimize or eliminate false alarms;
         2.   Make every reasonable effort to respond or cause a representative
to respond to the alarm system’s location within one hour when notified by the
city to deactivate a malfunctioning alarm system, to provide access to the
premises, and to provide security for the premises;
         3.   Not manually activate an alarm for any reason other than an
occurrence of an event that the alarm system was intended to report; and
         4.   Adjust the mechanism or cause the mechanism to be adjusted so
that an alarm signal audible on the exterior of the premises will sound for no
longer than 15 minutes after being activated.
§ 325.06 False Alarms.
   Subd. 1.   Fees. An alarm user fee shall be imposed upon any alarm user when
that user’s alarm system reports more than three false alarms to the city in a
single calendar year. The amount of such fees shall be set by the City Council.
   Subd. 2.   False Alarm Determination. There shall be a designated individual
that reviews all alarms to determine if chargeable. Acts of nature such as high
winds, lightning, or power outages that cause alarms to malfunction shall not
be considered chargeable.
   Subd. 3.   Notice. When imposing a false alarm user fee, the city shall
notify the affected alarm user in writing of the date of a false alarm, the
apparent reason for the false alarm, and the alarm user fee imposed by mailing
notice to the alarm user at the address on the alarm’s registration form.
   Subd. 4.   Appeal. The alarm user has the right to request an informal
hearing before the City Administrator or his or her designee to determine if
the false alarm is chargeable. An appeal must be made in writing and must be
filed with the City Clerk within ten days after the decision from which the
appeal is taken.
   Subd. 5.   Payment. An alarm user shall pay all alarm user fees within 30
days from the date written notice is mailed by the city unless the false alarm
determination is under appeal.
   Subd. 6.   Unpaid Fees. Any fee required under this section which is not
paid within the time required herein shall be certified as “past due” by the
City Clerk who, in turn, shall include it as an assessment for a current
service.
SECTION 335: SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING COLLECTION
§ 335.01 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Collection. The aggregation of waste from the place at which it was generated
and includes all activities up to the time when delivered to a waste facility.
Commercial/Industrial Establishment. Any premises not primarily used for
residential purposes and a commercial or industrial enterprise of any kind is
undertaken, including restaurants, clubs, churches, and schools.
Garbage. Any animal and/or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparing, cooking, and consumption of food.
Hauler. A licensed collector or transporter of mixed municipal solid waste,
recyclable materials, and/or yard waste.
Household. An individual or two more persons related by blood, marriage,
guardianship, or adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a
group of not more than three persons not so related, maintaining a common
housekeeping unit, and using common cooking and kitchen facilities; or a
residential program (group home) for six or fewer persons as defined and
licensed by the State Department of Human Services.
Mixed Municipal Solid Waste. Garbage, refuse, and other solid waste from
residential, commercial, industrial, and community activities which are
generated and collected in aggregate. This does not include auto bulks or large
auto parts, street sweepings, ash, construction debris, mining waste, sludge,
tree and/or agricultural waste, tires, or other materials collected, processed,
and disposed of as separate waste streams.
Recyclables. Materials that can be separated from the mixed municipal solid
waste stream for collection and preparation for reuse in their original form,
or for other uses in manufacturing processes that do not cause the destruction
of the recyclable materials in a manner that precludes further use.
Recycling. The process of collecting and preparing recyclable materials and
reusing the material in their original form or using them in manufacturing
processes.
Refuse. Discarded waste materials in a solid or semi-liquid state, consisting
of garbage, rubbish, or a combination thereof. “Refuse” does not include:
         1.   Construction materials resulting from the construction or
reconstruction of buildings or other improvements by contractors;
         2.   Trees in excess of six inches in diameter;
         3.   Yard waste; or
         4.   Recyclables.
Rubbish. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of combustible and
noncombustible materials, including yard waste.
Solid Waste. As defined in M.S. § 116.06, subd. 22, as it may be amended from
time to time.
Source-Separated Materials. Those elements of a waste stream that are separated
by the generator for reuse in their original form or for use in manufacturing
processes.
Special Pickup. Any collection of materials other than garbage, refuse,
recyclables, or yard waste, including white goods (e.g., large appliances),
furniture, oversized materials, construction debris, and other materials
collected, processed, and disposed of as separate waste streams.
Targeted Recyclables. Newspaper; clear, brown, and green glass containers; tin
cans; aluminum beverage cans; cardboard; plastics; magazines; phonebooks; high
grade paper and or other materials that may be designated by resolution of the
City Council.
Yard Waste. Organic material consisting of grass clippings, leaves, and other
forms of organic garden waste.
§ 335.02 Hauler License.
   Subd. 1.   Required. No person shall haul mixed municipal solid waste or
recyclables collected in the city without first securing a license from the
city.
   Subd. 2.   Validity. The license shall be valid for one calendar year and
shall expire on December 31 of each year unless revoked sooner.
   Subd. 3.   Application. The initial application for a license to haul or
collect refuse and each renewal application shall be in writing on a form
provided by the city.
   Subd. 4.   Fee. The annual license fee shall be established by resolution of
the City Council.
   Subd. 5.   Bond; Insurance.
         1.   Before a license is granted or renewed, the applicant shall
furnish to the City Administrator the following:
            a.   A surety bond in the sum of $1,000 for each vehicle licensed,
to be conditioned upon the faithful performance by the licensee of all work
entered into or contracted for by said licensee and upon strict compliance with
all the provisions and requirements of this section and all applicable sanitary
rules and regulations;
            b.   Statutory workers’ compensation insurance and employer’s
liability insurance, as required under the laws of the state. In the event the
licensee is a sole proprietor and has not elected to provide workers’
compensation insurance, licensee shall be required to execute and submit an
affidavit of sole proprietorship in a form satisfactory to the city; and
            c.   A liability insurance policy for each vehicle authorized in
the amount of $100,000 for bodily injury to any one person, in the amount of
$300,000 for injuries to more than one person which are sustained in any one
accident, and $100,000 for property damage resulting from any one accident.
Said insurance shall inure to the benefit of any one person who shall be
injured or who shall sustain damage to property proximately caused by the
negligence of the holder, his or her servant, or agents.
         2.   A certificate of insurance covering the aforementioned insurance
shall be issued in favor of the city. This certificate shall contain a 30-day
notice of cancellation to the city.
   Subd. 6.   Issuance. The City Administrator shall issue licenses only after
receipt and review of all required forms and fees. Upon review of the documents
submitted, the City Administrator shall issue a license if the documents comply
with the provisions of this section. An applicant denied a license by the City
Administrator may have the decision reviewed by the City Council. The applicant
shall request review by the City Council in writing ten days after denial of
the license.
   Subd. 7.   Exemptions; Conditions. The license requirements of this section
shall not apply to persons who haul garbage, refuse, or recyclables from their
own residences or commercial/industrial establishments, provided that the
following conditions are met.
         1.   Garbage is hauled in a timely manner such that it does not
accumulate and become a nuisance as defined under the City Code.
         2.   Garbage is hauled in containers equipped with tight-fitting
covers and which are also watertight on all sides and the bottom.
         3.   Refuse and recyclables are hauled in a manner that prevents
leakage or any possibility of a loss of cargo.
         4.   Garbage and refuse is only dumped or unloaded at designated
sanitary landfills or other facilities authorized by the county.
         5.   Recyclables are only dumped or unloaded at a recycling facility,
an organized recycling drive, or through licensed collectors.
         6.   Yard waste is privately composted, or is only dumped or unloaded
at a composting facility authorized by the county, or through a licensed
collector.
         7.   Items excluded in “mixed municipal solid waste” shall be
collected, processed, and disposed of according to state and county laws.
§ 335.03 Collection Regulations.
A licensed hauler must comply with the following requirements. Failure to
observe these provisions may be a basis for suspension or revocation of a
license.
   Subd. 1.   Manner. The licensee shall operate in a manner consistent with
its application materials and shall provide notice to the city within ten days
of any change in the information.
   Subd. 2.   Hours of Collection. No collection of mixed municipal solid waste
or recyclable materials shall be made from a residential dwelling, and no waste
hauler shall operate within a residential area except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Operations during these hours may
also be conducted on Saturday, to accommodate recognized national holidays or a
special pickup. No collection of yard waste from a residential dwelling shall
be made except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through
Saturday. Customers shall be reasonably notified of the specific day and hours
for collection of their yard waste, mixed municipal solid waste, and/or
recyclables, and the licensee shall collect the materials within those time
periods.
   Subd. 3.   Vehicles; Maintenance. Each licensed hauler shall only use
collection trucks that are properly licensed and inspected by the state. The
vehicles and equipment shall also be kept clean and as free from offensive
odors as possible, and shall not stand in any street, alley, or public place
longer than is reasonably necessary to collect mixed municipal solid waste,
yard waste, and/or recyclables. No licensed hauler shall operate a vehicle that
exceeds five tons per axle during spring road weight restrictions. There should
be printed on both sides of such vehicles in clear, legible type the name and
telephone number of the owner of such vehicle. The license shall also ensure
that the collection site is left tidy and free of litter.
   Subd. 4.   Collecting Recyclable Material Required. It shall be the duty of
each licensed mixed municipal solid waste collector to haul away, on the same
day as mixed municipal solid waste service, to such places as designated in
their license application, the targeted recyclable materials from households
with individual curbside mixed municipal solid waste containers. Each licensed
mixed municipal solid waste and recyclable material collector shall do the same
for residences who occupy multiple-family (apartment) dwellings. The costs of
collecting recyclable material shall be included in the general pricing scheme
for collection of mixed municipal solid waste and recyclable material. Nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent a licensee from offering curbside
collection for recyclable materials other than targeted recyclables.
   Subd. 5.   Recyclable Material Report. It shall be the duty of each licensee
collecting recyclable material to provide upon request from the city and/or
Sherburne County Solid Waste, a report on quantity and type of all material
recycled within the city. Upon written notice to the licensee, the city and/or
Sherburne County Solid Waste may require similar reports on other materials
picked up by the licensee.
   Subd. 6.   Charges for Service. Charges for collection shall be based upon
the volume or weight of mixed municipal solid waste that is collected. The
charges shall increase with the volume or weight of the waste collected.
Licensed haulers may not impose greater charges on households or commercial/
industrial establishments that recycle than on those who do not recycle.
   Subd. 7.   Recyclables. Recyclables may not be disposed of at a landfill or
incinerated. All recyclables must be recycled. Licensed hauler shall not mix
source-separated materials with mixed municipal solid waste or handle source-
separated materials in any way that reduces the reusability or marketability of
the source-separated material. Licensed haulers must notify the customer if
recyclable materials are contaminated or not sorted correctly. The notification
must be in writing stating the violation and corrective measures, and it must
be presented at the time of collection.
   Subd. 8.   Yard Waste/Christmas Tree Collection. Each collector shall
segregate yard waste and Christmas tree materials from other solid waste
materials. Collectors shall not mix other types of waste or refuse or inorganic
materials with yard waste or Christmas tree materials, or take any action so as
to make the material unacceptable at a compost facility. Disposal of the
material shall be to a licensed composting facility.
   Subd. 9.   Designated Sanitary Landfill. Mixed municipal solid waste
collected from sources other than public entities may be disposed only at a
designated sanitary landfill or other facility authorized by the county. All
mixed municipal solid wastes collected from any public entity within the city
must be managed according to the county waste management hierarchy. This
section shall not be construed as limiting the disposal of refuse to sites in
the city or the county.
   Subd. 10.   Compliance With Laws. The licensee shall comply with all state,
county, and local laws and regulations.
§ 335.04 No Vested Rights.
No collector licensed pursuant to this chapter shall acquire a vested right in
the license. The city may, upon finding that public necessity requires,
determine to establish other means of refuse collection.
§ 335.05 Suspension or Revocation of License.
The City Council may suspend or revoke the license of any person whose conduct
is found to be in violation of the provisions of this section. Suspension or
revocation may also be based on other health, safety, and welfare concerns
arising out of the performance of the licensee, his, her, or their employees
and agents, and/or his, her, or their vehicles and equipment. Revocation or
suspension of a license by the Council shall be preceded by a public hearing.
The hearing notice shall be given at least ten days prior to the hearing,
including notice of the time and place of the hearing, and shall state the
nature of the charges against the licensee.
§ 335.06 Scavenging Prohibited Without License.
It is unlawful for any person or business to scavenge, collect, or otherwise
remove mixed municipal solid waste, recyclables, or yard waste that has been
placed at the curb or in recycling containers, without a license from the city
and an account relationship with the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premise.
§ 335.07 Penalty.
   Subd. 1.   Any person convicted of violating this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine or imprisonment, or both, as
specified by state statute.
   Subd. 2.   Any licensed collector that accumulates three documented
violations of this chapter shall have its license revoked. A collector with a
revoked license may seek review and hearing by the City Council by initiating
such proceedings with the City Clerk.
SECTION 340: JUNKED AUTOS
§ 340.01 Definition.
The terms “junk vehicle” and “abandoned vehicle” shall have the definitions
assigned to them by M.S. § 168B.011, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 340.02 Permit Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, occupying or owning private property
within the city, to keep or permit to be kept any junked or abandoned vehicles
on the private property within the city for a period in excess of 14 days
without a special use permit granted by the City Council.
   Subd. 1.   Special Use Permits. Special use permits may be issued for any of
the uses or purposes for which special use permits shall be required or
permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   Subd. 2.   Application. Application for the issuance of a special use permit
shall be made to the City Hall. A committee will review all applications. It
may designate conditions and require guarantees for the granting of a special
use permit.
   Subd. 3.   Procedure. Procedure by the applicant(s) and the city shall be as
follows:
         1.   Application made and fees paid;
         2.   Review committee scheduled;
         3.   Committee reviews and approves or denies application; and
         4.   Denials are appealable to City Council.
   Subd. 4.   Fees. The fees for a special use permit and any extension shall
be set in the fee schedule adopted from time to time by the City Council.
   Subd. 5.   Expiration. Unless the City Council specifically approves a
different time frame, all special use permits shall expire six months after
issuance. One extension shall be available for three months. The applicant must
make application and pay fee for the extension prior to the expiration of the
original permit.
   Subd. 6.   Conformance. At all times while in possession of a special use
permit, the applicant shall be in conformance with all provisions of the
permit.
   Subd. 7.   Violations and Penalties. Any person, firm, or corporation who
shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
§ 340.03 License Plate Requirement.
Any vehicle shall be deemed to be junked or abandoned within the meaning of
this section if the vehicle does not have attached thereto a valid and current
license plate issued by the proper state agency, or is not in operable
condition as defined by law.
§ 340.04 General Accumulation.
In any area within the city, the storage or accumulation of junk, trash,
rubbish, or refuse of any kind, except refuse stored in such manner as not to
create a nuisance for a period not to extend 30 days, shall not be permitted
without a valid permit from the city. The term “junk” shall include parts of
machinery or motor vehicles, unused stoves or other appliances stored in the
open; remnants of wood; decayed, weathered, or broken construction materials;
metal or any other material or cast-off material of any kind, whether or not
the same could be put to any reasonable use.
§ 340.05 Abatement.
Any junk or abandoned vehicle found in violation of this section may be removed
from the property and disposed of by the city as provided in M.S. § 168B, as it
may be amended from time to time. All other junk, trash, or rubbish found in
violation of this section may be abated as a nuisance threatening the health,
safety, and welfare of the city. No action shall be taken under this subsection
until the property owner has received notice of the alleged violation and given
an opportunity to correct the violation or to be heard by the Council.
SECTION 350: TOBACCO
§ 350.01 Purpose.
Because the city recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess, and use tobacco, tobacco products, and
tobacco related devices, and such sales, possession, and use are violations of
both state and federal laws; and because studies such as “Cigarette Smoking and
Changes in the Histopathology of Lung Cancer,” “Cigarette Smoking and
Esophageal and Gastric Cardio-Adenocarcinoma,” and others, which the city
hereby accepts and adopts, have shown that most smokers begin smoking before
they have reached the age of 18 years and that those persons who reach the age
of 18 years without having started smoking are significantly less likely to
begin smoking; and because smoking has been shown to be the cause of several
serious health problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all
levels of government; this section shall be intended to regulate the sale,
possession, and use of tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices
for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect minors
against the serious effects associated with the illegal use of tobacco, tobacco
products, and tobacco related devices, and to further the official public
policy of the state in regard to preventing young people from starting to smoke
as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 350.02 Definitions and Interpretations.
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall include
the plural, and the plural shall include the singular. The masculine shall
include the feminine and the neuter, and vice-versa. The term “shall” means
mandatory, and the term “may” means permissive. For the purpose of this
section, the following definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
Compliance Checks. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices
are following and complying with the requirements of this section. Compliance
checks shall involve the use of minors as authorized by this section.
“Compliance checks” shall also mean the use of minors who attempt to purchase
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices for educational, research
and training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws. Compliance
checks may also be conducted by other units of government for the purpose of
enforcing appropriate federal, state, or local laws and regulations relating to
tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices.
Individually Packaged. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco product
wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this subdivision shall not be
considered individually packaged.
Loosies. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette.
Minor. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
Moveable Place of Business. Any form of business operated out of a truck, van,
automobile, or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a fixed
address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for sales
transactions.
Retail Establishment. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco related devices are available for sale to the general public. Retail
establishments shall include, but not be limited to, grocery stores,
convenience stores, and restaurants.
Sale. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other consideration.
Self-Service Merchandising. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices, without the assistance
or intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee. The assistance or
intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco related device between the customer and the licensee or
employee. Self-service merchandising shall not include vending machines.
Tobacco or Tobacco Products. Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including, but not limited to, cigarettes; cigars; pipe tobacco; snuff; fine
cut or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready-rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers; cavendish;
shorts; plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse scraps, clippings,
cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing, or smoking.
Tobacco Related Devices. Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling papers,
or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a manner which
enables the chewing, sniffing, or smoking of tobacco or tobacco products.
Vending Machine. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens, or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco related device.
§ 350.03 License.
No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco
related devices without first having obtained a license to do so from the city.
   Subd. 1.   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco,
tobacco products, or tobacco related devices shall be made on a form provided
by the city. The application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the
applicant’s residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name
of the business for which the license is sought, and any additional information
the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed application, the City
Administrator shall forward the application to the Council for action at its
next regularly scheduled Council meeting. If the Administrator shall determine
that an application is incomplete, he or she shall return the application to
the applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
   Subd. 2.   Action. The Council may either approve or deny the license, or it
may delay action for such reasonable period of time as necessary to complete
any investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If
the Council shall approve the license, the Administrator shall issue the
license to the applicant. If the Council denies the license, notice of the
denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant’s
right to appeal the Council’s decision.
   Subd. 3.   Term. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid for
one calendar year from the date of issue.
   Subd. 4.   Revocation of Suspension. Any license issued under this section
may be revoked or suspended as provided in subsections 350.12 and 350.13.
   Subd. 5.   Transfers. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid
only on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person
to whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location
or person shall be valid without the prior approval of the Council.
   Subd. 6.   Moveable Place of Business. No license shall be issued to a
moveable place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to
be licensed under this section.
   Subd. 7.   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view
of the general public on the licensed premises.
   Subd. 8.   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section
shall be handled in the same manner as the original application. The request
for a renewal shall be made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before
the expiration of the current license. The issuance of a license issued under
this section shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the
applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the
license.
§ 350.04 Fees.
No license shall be issued under this section until the appropriate license fee
shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this section shall be as set
by the City Council in a fee schedule and adjusted from time to time.
§ 350.05 Basis for Denial of License.
The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license
under this section; however, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the
existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the city must
deny the license. If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it
shall be revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the
license under this section.
         1.   The applicant is under the age of 18 years.
         2.   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of
any violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products, or tobacco related devices.
         3.   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products, or tobacco related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of
the date of application.
         4.   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
         5.   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local
law, ordinance, or other regulation, from holding such license.
§ 350.06 Prohibited Sales.
It shall be a violation of this section for any person to sell or offer to sell
any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device:
         1.   To any person under the age of 18 years;
         2.   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise
be provided in this section;
         3.   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not
need to make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premise
in order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco related device between the licensee, or the licensee’s employee, and
the customer;
         4.   By means of loosies as defined in subsection 350.02;
         5.   Containing opium, morphine, jimsonweed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process; or
         6.   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner
or form prohibited by federal, state, or other local law, ordinance provision,
or other regulation.
§ 350.07 Vending Machines.
It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this section to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices by the means of a
vending machine unless minors are, at all times, prohibited from entering the
licensed establishment.
§ 350.08 Self-Service Sales.
It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this section to allow the sale of
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices by any means whereby the
customer may have access to such items without having to request the item from
the licensee or the licensee’s employee and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, or the tobacco related device between
the licensee, or his or her clerk, and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco
products, and tobacco related devices shall either be stored behind a counter
or other area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage
unit not left open and accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices at the time this section
is adopted shall comply with this section within 90 days.
§ 350.09 Responsibility.
All licensees under this section shall be responsible for the actions of their
employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of such an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also subjecting the
clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this section, state or
federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
§ 350.10 Compliance Checks and Inspections.
All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the city police or other
authorized city official during regular business hours. From time to time, but
at least once per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks by engaging,
with the written consent of their parents or guardians, minors over the age of
15 years but less than 18 years, to enter the licensed premises to attempt to
purchase tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices. Minors used for
the purpose of compliance checks shall be supervised by city designated law
enforcement officers or other designated city personnel. Minors used for
compliance checks shall not be guilty of unlawful possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, or tobacco related devices when such items are obtained as a
part of the compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks shall attempt
to use a false identification misrepresenting the minor’s age, and all minors
lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about the
minor’s age asked by the licensee or his or her employee and shall produce any
identification, if any exists, for which he or she is asked. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by state or federal laws
for educational, research, or training purposes or required for the enforcement
of a particular state or federal law.
§ 350.11 Other Illegal Acts.
Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
section.
   Subd. 1.   Illegal Sales. It shall be a violation of this section for any
person to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco
related device to any minor.
   Subd. 2.   Illegal Possession. It shall be a violation of this section for
any minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco related device. This subdivision shall not apply to minors lawfully
involved in a compliance check.
   Subd. 3.   Illegal Use. It shall be a violation of this section for any
minor to smoke, check, sniff, or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco related device.
   Subd. 4.   Illegal Procurement. It shall be a violation of this section for
any minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco,
tobacco product, or tobacco related device, and it shall be a violation of this
section for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain such items on behalf of
a minor. It shall further be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to
coerce a minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco,
tobacco product, or tobacco related device. This subdivision shall not apply to
minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   Subd. 5.   Use of False Identification. It shall be a violation of this
section for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of
a false form of identification, whether the identification is that of another
person or one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with
to represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
§ 350.12 Violations.
   Subd. 1.   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged
violator shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets
forth the alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his
or her right to be heard on the accusation.
   Subd. 2.   Hearings. If a person accused of violating this section so
requests, a hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be
published and provided to the accused violator.
   Subd. 3.   Hearing Officer. A member of city staff shall serve as hearing
officer.
   Subd. 4.   Decision. If the hearing officer determines that a violation of
this section did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officer’s reasons
for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under subsection 350.13,
shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the accused
violator. Likewise, if the hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or
finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, such findings shall be recorded and
a copy provided to the acquitted accused violator.
   Subd. 5.   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer
shall be filed in the District Court for the city in which the alleged
violation occurred.
   Subd. 6.   Misdemeanor Prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit
the city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this section. If the city elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, no
administrative penalty shall be imposed.
   Subd. 7.   Continued Violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 350.13 Penalties.
   Subd. 1.   Licensees and Employees. Any licensee, and any employee of a
licensee, found to have violated this section shall be charged an
administrative fine of $75 for a first violation of this section; $200 for a
second offense at the same licensed premises within a 24-month period; and $250
for a third or subsequent offense at the same location within a 24-month
period. In addition, after the third offense, the license shall be suspended
for not less than seven days.
   Subd. 2.   Other Individuals. Other individuals, other than minors regulated
by Subd. 3 below, found to be in violation of this section shall be charged an
administrative fee of $50.
   Subd. 3.   Minors. Minors found in unlawful possession of, or who unlawfully
purchase or attempt to purchase, tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related
devices, shall be charged an administrative fee of $25 or perform 16 hours of
community service.
   Subd. 4.   Misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this section.
§ 350.14 Exceptions and Defenses. 
Nothing in this section shall prevent the providing of tobacco, tobacco
products, or tobacco related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully
recognized religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremony. It shall be an
affirmative defense to the violation of this section for a person to have
reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law.
§ 350.15 Severability and Savings Clause.
If any section or portion of this section shall be found unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, that
finding shall not serve as an invalidation or affect the validity and
enforceability of any other section or provision of this section.
SECTION 360: BINGO
§ 360.01 Purpose.
The purpose of this section shall be to closely regulate and control the
conduct of the game of bingo, and to prohibit commercialization of bingo, and
to regulate lawful gambling within the city.
§ 360.02 Definitions.
The definitions of M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to time,
shall hereby be adopted by reference and made applicable to this section.
§ 360.03 License or Permit.
No bingo occasion shall be conducted except by an eligible organization which
has secured a license for that purpose from the state, as provided in M.S.
Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to time, unless the organization is
exempt from state licensing requirements.
§ 360.04 Prizes.
Prizes for bingo operations shall not exceed the limits imposed by state law or
the rules promulgated by the State Gaming Board.
§ 360.05 Inspection and Investigation.
Any city official or employee, having to perform with reference to a bingo
license, and any police officer, may inspect and examine the bingo records of
any licensed organization.
§ 360.06 Penalties.
Violation of any provision of this section shall be a misdemeanor.
SECTION 370: REGULATION OF LAWFUL GAMBLING
§ 370.01 Declaration of Policy, Purpose.
   Subd. 1.   The City Council recognizes that though “lawful gambling,” as set
forth in state law, may not appeal to all members of society, it is an activity
that is engaged in by a significant portion of the population and the financial
profits thereof without the aid of Minnesota Statutes, may or may not be used
to the benefit of society.
   Subd. 2.   The City Council further recognizes that most charitable
organizations and their members provide a much needed and useful service to
humankind and the City Council is especially appreciative of the goals and
objectives of all of the charitable or non-profit organizations established or
organized within the city’s community; the Council commends these organizations
for their contribution to worthy causes within and without the city’s community
and therefore, the Council supports the purposes for which state laws were
adopted.
   Subd. 3.   The ability to obtain a license number under Minnesota Statutes
to conduct lawful gambling in the city is a privilege granted by the state and
the city and not a right guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States of
America or the state. The City Council feels that there are many areas within
the city’s community wherein the profits derived from lawful gambling within
the city could well be spent to the benefit of the community; and therefore,
requires a percentage of such funds to be used within the city’s community.
§ 370.02 Provisions of State Law Adopted.
Minnesota Statutes, as now exist or as are hereinafter amended, as well as the
adopted rules of the Charitable Gambling Control Board, as now exist or as are
hereinafter amended, are hereby adopted and made a part of this section as if
fully set out herein.
Statutory reference:
   Lawful gambling and gambling devices, see M.S. Ch. 349
   Lawful gambling rules, see Minn. Rules Chapter 7861 - 7865
§ 370.03 License Required.
No person or organization shall conduct lawful gambling as defined by the laws
of the state without the required state license issued through the Charitable
Gambling Control Board and as approved by the city under the terms of this
section.
§ 370.04 Application for License.
Every application for a gambling license shall be verified and filed with the
City Clerk and shall be in compliance with the statutes and rules governing
same adopted by the state and the Charitable Gambling Control Board. All
applicants shall release, acquit, and forever discharge the city, its agents,
successors, and assigns, from any and all actions, causes of action, or claims
and demands on account of or in any way growing out of any and all known and
unknown damages resulting from the granting or denial of the license and shall
agree to indemnify and save and hold harmless said city.
§ 370.05 Investigation Fee.
   Subd. 1.   Requirement. Any person or organization applying for or renewing
a state license to conduct lawful gambling within the city shall submit to a
background investigation conducted by the city. At the time that it files its
application for a license with the Charitable Gambling Control Board, the
person or organization shall:
         1.   Complete an investigation form provided by the city;
         2.   Furnish any additional information required by the city; and
         3.   Pay an investigation fee to the city at the time of application
in the amount stated on the city’s current fee schedule.
   Subd. 2.   Exception. No person or organization which is exempt from state
license requirements is required to comply with these investigation
requirements.
§ 370.06 Restrictions.
   Subd. 1.   Gambling Sites. One or more organizations may be issued a
premises permit at any premises at which there is a gambling site. The city
will give preference to local organizations. If more than one organization is
granted a premises permit, each organization must have separate designated
lease spaces and must meet Minnesota Statutes requirements. All gambling
operations conducted by a licensed organization shall be managed by an active
member or said organization. All leases pertaining to lawful gambling shall
state the hours of the day during which a licensee may conduct lawful gambling
on said premises.
   Subd. 2.   Local Organizations. A local organization shall be defined to
mean:
         1.   A fraternal, religious, or veterans affiliate of a national
organization with a Big Lake Chapter that has operated in the city for the most
recent three years and which conducts regular meetings or activities in the
city at least six times a year;
         2.   A fraternal, religious, or veterans organization at least 40% of
whose active members are residents of the city, that has operated in the city
for the most recent three years, and which conducts regular meetings or
activities in the city at least six times a year;
         3.   An organization that for the most recent three years has had a
bona fide office open in the city at least ten hours a week; or
         4.   A youth focused organization, if at least 10% of the youth are
city residents.
   Subd. 3.   Trade Area. Each organization conducting lawful gambling within
the city must expend 75% of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes
conducted or located within the trade area of the city, which shall include the
corporate limits of the city and Big Lake Township. This section applies only
to lawful purpose expenditures of gross profits derived from lawful gambling
conducted at premises within the city. Annually, each organization must file
with the city a report prepared by an independent certified public accountant
documenting compliance with this section. In addition, each organization shall
submit a report to the city each January listing all lawful purpose
expenditures from January 1 through December 31 of the preceding year. The
report shall identify the name of the entity to which the check was written,
the city location of the recipient, and the amount of the donation.
§ 370.07 Reports.
Each licensee shall quarterly, within 30 days after the close of a quarter of a
year, file a report with the City Clerk, if such form is prescribed by the
city.
§ 370.08 Suspension, Revocation, Non-Renewal of Licenses.
If any person or organization shall fail to make the payments required by this
section, fail to provide the City Clerk with reports as required by this
section, or violate this section in any other manner, such violation shall be
grounds for the city to recommend to the Charitable Gambling Control Board that
the gambling license for such organization be suspended, revoked, or not
renewed.
§ 370.09 Age Restriction.
No person under the age of 18 years shall conduct or participate in lawful
gambling. “Participate” shall be defined to include, but shall not be limited
to, playing the games of bingo, raffles, paddlewheels, tip boards, or pull
tabs.
SECTION 380: ADULT USE BUSINESSES
§ 380.01 License Required.
No person, firm, partnership, or corporation shall operate an adult use, either
principal or accessory, without having first secured a license as provided in
this section. Licenses shall be one of two types:
         1.   Adult use/accessory; or
         2.   Adult use/principal.
§ 380.02 Application.
In addition to such information the City Council may require, the application
shall also include:
         1.   If the applicant is an individual, the name, residence, phone
number, and birthday of the applicant. If the applicant is a partnership, the
name, residence, phone number, and birthdate of each general and limited
partner. If the applicant is a corporation, the names, residences, phone
numbers, and birth dates of all those persons holding more than 5% of the
issued and outstanding stock of the corporation;
         2.   The name, address, phone number, and birthdate of the manager of
the operation, if different from the owners;
         3.   The premises where the adult use is to be located within the
entire building;
         4.   A statement detailing any felony convictions by the applicant and
whether or not the applicant has ever applied for or held a license to operate
a similar type of business in other communities. In the case of a corporation,
a statement detailing any felony convictions by the owners of more than 5% of
the issued and outstanding stock of the corporation, and whether or not those
owners have ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar type of
business in other communities;
         5.   The activities and type of business to be conducted;
         6.   The hours of operation;
         7.   The provisions made to restrict access by minors; and
         8.   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations
and activities.
§ 380.03 License Fees.
   Subd. 1.   Each application for a license shall be submitted to the City
Administrator and payment of the fee as established in the fee schedule shall
be made to the city. Each application for a license shall be accompanied by
payment in full of the required fee for the license except that if a portion of
the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be
issued for the remainder of the year for a prorated fee. In computing the fee,
any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month. All fees shall
be paid into the General Fund. Upon rejection of any application for a license,
the city shall refund the amount paid except for that cost to investigate the
applicant.
   Subd. 2.   No part of the fee paid for any license issued under this section
shall be refunded except in the following instances upon application to the
City Administrator within 30 days from the happening of the event. There shall
be refunded a pro-rata portion of the fee for the unexpired period of the
license, computed on a monthly basis, when operation of the licensed business
ceases no less than one month before expiration of the license because of:
         1.   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
         2.   If the licensee is an individual, the licensee’s disabling
illness. If the licensee is a partnership, the disabling illness of any general
partner. If the licensee is a corporation, the disabling illness of any
shareholder or shareholders who in the aggregate hold 50% or more of the issued
and outstanding shares of the corporation;
         3.   If the licensee is an individual, the licensee’s death. If the
licensee is a partnership, the death of any general partner. If the licensee is
a corporation, the death of any shareholder or shareholders who in the
aggregate hold 50% or more of the issued and outstanding shares of the
corporation; or
         4.   A change in the legal status making it unlawful for the licensed
business to continue.
§ 380.04 Term.
All licenses shall expire on the last day of December of each year.
§ 380.05 Granting of License.
The City Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and
hold a public hearing within 45 days after the City Administrator receives the
application. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and administrative
hearing, the City Council shall grant or refuse the application. The city shall
grant or refuse the application within 45 days after the public hearing has
closed.
§ 380.06 Transfers.
Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and shall not be
transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only for the
premises described in the application. No license shall be transferred to
another premise without the approval of the City Council. If the licensee is a
partnership or corporation, a change in the identity of any of the principals
of the partnership or corporation shall be deemed a transfer of the license.
All adult uses existing at the time of the enactment of this Code shall be
required to obtain an annual license.
§ 380.07 Persons Ineligible for License.
No person shall be granted to or held by any person:
         1.   Under 18 years of age, unless alcohol is to be served on the
premises, in which case, the minimum age shall be 21 years;
         2.   Who has been convicted of any felony relating to sexual
misconduct or otherwise relating to adult use business and adult use business
licenses, unless such person shall have shown sufficient rehabilitation in
accordance with M.S. § 364.03, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
or
         3.   Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the
license is issued.
§ 380.08 Places Ineligible for License.
   Subd. 1.   No license shall be granted for adult uses on any premises where
a licensee has been convicted of a violation of this chapter, or where any
license hereunder has been revoked for cause, until one year has elapsed after
the conviction or revocation.
   Subd. 2.   Except for uses lawfully existing at the time of this Code
adoption, no license shall be granted for any adult use which is not in
compliance with the city’s zoning regulations.
§ 380.09 Conditions of License.
   Subd. 1.   Every license shall be granted subject to the conditions in the
following subdivisions and all other provisions of this chapter, and of any
applicable sections of the Code of the city or state law.
   Subd. 2.   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a
conspicuous place at all times.
   Subd. 3.   In the case of an adult use/principal, no minor shall be
permitted on the licences premises unless accompanied by his or her parent or
legal guardian.
   Subd. 4.   Any designated inspection officer of the city shall have the
unqualified right to enter, inspect, and search the premises of a licensee
during business hours.
   Subd. 5.   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his or her
place of business and shall maintain conditions of order.
§ 380.10 Violations and Penalties.
   Subd. 1.   Misdemeanor. Any person violating any provision of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished not
more than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
   Subd. 2.   Suspension or Revocation. Any violation of this section shall be
a basis for the suspension or revocation of any license granted hereunder. In
the event that the City Council proposes to revoke or suspend the license, the
licensee shall be notified in writing of the basis for the proposed revocation
or suspension. The Council shall hold a public hearing for the purpose of
determining whether to revoke or suspend the license, which public hearing
shall be within 45 days of the date of the notice. The City Council shall
determine whether to suspend or revoke the license within 45 days after the
close of the hearing and shall notify the licensee of its decision within that
45-day period.
§ 380.11 Right of Appeal.
Any applicant whose application for an adult use license is denied, or any
licensee whose license is revoked or suspended, may appeal the denial,
revocation, or suspension to the District Court of the county within 30 days
after the denial, revocation, or suspension of the license.
SECTION 390: ANIMALS
§ 390.01 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Animal. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry), or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
         1.   Domestic. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include dogs,
cats, pot- bellied pigs, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs,
domesticated rabbits, fish, non-poisonous, non-venomous, and non-constricting
reptiles or amphibians, and other similar animals.
         2.   Non-Domestic. Those animals commonly considered to be naturally
wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include:
            a.   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae), including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards, and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats;
            b.   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family
canidae), including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding
commonly accepted domesticated dogs;
            c.   Any crossbreeds, such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a
dog, unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet;
            d.   Any member or relative of the rodent family, including any
skunk (whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding
those members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets;
            e.   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families, including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles, and alligators; and/or
            f.   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but
which can be reasonably defined by the terms of this item 2.f, including, but
not limited to, bears, deer, monkeys, and game fish.
         3.   Farm. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing
work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall
include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows,
bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (duck, geese), swine except
for pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals associated with a farm,
ranch, or stables.
At Large. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and control
of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise
restrained or confined.
Cat. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
Commercial Kennel. Any place where dogs or other animals are kept where the
business of raising, selling, boarding, breeding, showing, treating, or
grooming of dogs or other animals is conducted.
Dog. Both the male and female of the canine species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
Falconry Permit. A valid falconry permit issued by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
Owner. Any person or persons, firm, association, or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
§ 390.02 Dogs and Cats.
   Subd. 1.   Running at Large Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, or the parents or the guardians of
any such person under 18 years of age, to allow such dog or cat to run at
large. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a responsible person or
accompanied by and under the control and direction of a responsible person so
as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in
streets or on public land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading
“Dogs or Cats Prohibited.”
   Subd. 2.   Vaccination.
         1.   All dogs and cats kept, harbored, maintained, or transported
within the city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a
licensed veterinarian for:
            a.   Rabies (with a live modified vaccine); and
            b.   Distemper.
         2.   A certificate of vaccination shall be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner’s name and address, the animal’s name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian’s signature. Upon demand made by the City Administrator or a
police officer, the owner shall present for examination the required
certificate(s) of vaccination for their animal(s). In cases where certificates
are not presented, the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have seven days
in which to present the certificate(s) to the City Administrator or police
officer. Failure to do so shall be deemed a violation of this section.
§ 390.03 Pot-Bellied Pigs.
   Subd. 1.   A person may keep no more than one pot-bellied pig, which must be
kept solely for the private use and enjoyment of the person.
   Subd. 2.   A pot-bellied pig may be kept only by residents of single-family
detached dwellings.
   Subd. 3.   All male pot-bellied pigs must be neutered by the age of three
months, and all female pot-bellied pigs must be neutered by the age of one
year. Upon request by the city, the owner must present to the city a
certificate executed by a licensed doctor of veterinary medicine showing that
the animal has been neutered in a timely manner, or that the animal has not
reached the age for required neutering.
   Subd. 4.   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a
pot-bellied pig, or the parents or the guardians of any such person under 18
years of age, to allow such pig to run at large. Pigs on a leash and
accompanied by a responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and
direction of a responsible person so as to be effectively restrained by command
as by leash, shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the city
has posted an area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited”. Although said
signs may not mention pigs specifically, they are prohibited as well.
   Subd. 5.   All other provisions of this section apply to pot-bellied pigs.
Pot-bellied pigs will be considered along with any other animals when
determining whether a private kennel license is required or permitted.
§ 390.04 Chickens.
   Subd. 1.   This set of rules shall be in effect for residentially zoned
properties throughout the city except that properties in the AG Zoning District
which are ten acres or larger may deviate from these rules and may instead keep
chickens in a manner consistent with the Code’s rules for farm animals.
   Subd. 2.   No more than six chicken hens (females) are permitted to be
maintained on one property.
   Subd. 3.   The keeping of roosters, defined as male chickens, and crowing
hens is prohibited.
   Subd. 4.   Chickens shall not be permitted on residential properties which
contain three or more dwelling units.
   Subd. 5.   All persons keeping or maintaining chickens must have a chicken
coop to house the chickens and a chicken run where chickens may roam
unsupervised. The coop and run must meet the following minimum requirements.
         1.   Coop requirements are as follows.
            a.   “Coop” is defined as a structure for the keeping or housing of
chickens, as permitted by this section.
            b.   The coop is considered a detached accessory building and must
comply with all provisions of City Code Chapter 10 (Zoning), including design
and exterior material requirements, unless specifically exempted from a zoning
provision as part of this section.
            c.   A zoning permit is required for any detached accessory
building which is not large enough to require a building permit, including any
chicken coop.
            d.   The maximum height of a chicken coop shall be six feet.
            e.   Coop shall be fully enclosed to prevent any escape by chickens
or entrance by migratory birds or predators.
         2.   Run requirements are as follows.
            a.   “Run” is defined as a fully enclosed and covered area attached
to a coop where chickens can roam unsupervised.
            b.   Fence around the run enclosure shall be securely constructed
with mesh type material.
            c.   The maximum height of a run shall be six feet.
            d.   Protective overhead netting or roofing with an approved
material is required to prevent predators.
         3.   The coop shall be counted as a detached accessory building when
calculating the total number of permitted detached accessory buildings and the
allowance for total square footage of detached accessory buildings, except that
a property may be permitted one coop of 30 square feet or less which shall not
count towards the total number of permitted accessory buildings or the
allowance for total square footage of accessory buildings.
         4.   Coops and hard-roofed runs shall be considered an impervious
surface when calculating impervious surface coverage of a property, except that
coops and hard-roofed runs which total 30 square feet or less shall not be
considered an impervious surface.
         5.   Coops and runs are allowed only in a rear yard.
         6.   Coops and runs must be located at least six feet away from the
primary structure on the property.
         7.   Coops and runs must maintain a minimum setback of ten feet from
all property lines and must maintain a minimum setback of 30 feet from all
inhabited structures on adjacent properties.
         8.   Coops and runs located in the shoreland management overlay
district must meet the required structure setback from the ordinary high water
level or any lake or river.
         9.   Coops and runs located near wetlands must comply with wetland
setback/buffer requirements.
   Subd. 6.   Food materials must be stored in a closed metal container to
avoid pests.
   Subd. 7.   The enclosure and surrounding grounds shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition and in good repair. Flies, rodents, and noxious
odors shall be controlled.
   Subd. 8.   Manure shall not be permitted to accumulate on the property.
Manure shall be removed at least once per week, but while on the property,
shall be properly stored.
   Subd. 9.   Chickens must not be housed in a residential house or in an
attached or detached garage, except chickens under the age of six weeks for
brooding purposes.
   Subd. 10.   Chickens must not be allowed to free range unless the yard is
completely fenced in. Chickens are not allowed to roam at large.
   Subd. 11.   Slaughtering and processing of chickens on the property is
prohibited.
   Subd. 12.   Dead chickens must be disposed of according to the State Board
of Animal Health rules which require chicken carcasses to be disposed of as
soon as possible after death, usually within 48 to 72 hours. Acceptable methods
of chicken carcass disposal include burial or these off-site options:
incineration, rendering, or composting.
   Subd. 13.   The city reserves the right to require property owners to
eliminate all fowl and poultry within city limits if a pandemic regarding fowl
and poultry is declared.
§ 390.05 Honey Bee Keeping.
   Subd. 1.   Definitions. For the purpose of this subsection, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
Apiary. Any place or location where one or more colonies or nuclei of honey
bees are kept.
Beekeeper. A person who owns or has charge of one or more colonies of honey
bees.
Beekeeping Equipment. Anything used in the operation of an apiary, such as hive
bodies, supers, frames, top and bottom boards, and extractors.
Colony. An aggregate of honey bees consisting principally of workers but
having, when perfect, one queen and, at times, drones, brood, combs, and honey.
Hive. A structure manufactured to house a colony, including a hive stand, a
bottom board, the hive body, frames/combs, queen excluder (optional), inner
cover, and outer cover. One hive houses one swarm consisting of one and queen
and worker honey bees.
Honey Bee. Any stage of the common honey bee, apis mellifera species of
European origin.
Nucleus Colony. A small quantity of honey bees with a queen housed in a smaller
than usual hive box designed for a particular purpose.
   Subd. 2.   Keeping of Honey Bees.
         1.   Purpose. Honey bees provide substantial benefits to people and
the environment, including, but not limited to, pollination of crops and
production of honey and wax. It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
establish, or maintain any hive, stand, box, apiary, or keep any honey bees in
or upon premises within the corporate limits of the city unless the honey bees
are kept in accordance with the provisions of this subdivision.
         2.   Permit Required.
            a.   Prior to installing, altering, or establishing a colony of
honey bees within a hive, the beekeeper must obtain a permit from the city.
Application for said permit shall be made to the city upon forms furnished by
the city.
               i.   The permit application shall including the following data:
                  (a)   Name and address of applicant and property owner;
                  (b)   Street address and legal description of the lot upon
which the honey bees would be kept; and
                  (c)   Location of any schools or day care facility located
within 200 feet of property.
               ii.   All applications shall be accompanied by an application
fee, as required by the city.
            b.   The city, upon written notice, may revoke a permit for failure
to comply with provisions of this section or any condition(s) set forth in the
permit.
         3.   Beekeeping standards.
            a.   Honey bee colonies meeting the requirements of this
subdivision may be kept only upon a lot containing a single dwelling unit, as
an accessory use within the R-1 Single-Family Residential District, R-1E
Single-Family Residential Estates, R-2 Medium Density Residential District, and
A Agricultural District.
            b.   Only honey bee species which are viable in northern climates
according to the Department of Entomology at the University of Minnesota shall
be allowed.
            c.   Beekeepers shall own and reside at the property upon which
said honey bees are kept.
            d.   The number of colonies on any lot or parcel is limited to one
colony per 10,000 square feet of lot area. At no time shall a person be
permitted to keep or maintain more than three colonies on any lot or parcel.
            e.   Placement of hives:
               i.   No colony or hive shall be kept or maintained within any
front yard. In the case of a corner lot, no colony or hive shall be kept or
maintained within the yard abutting an existing or dedicated public street.
               ii.   No person shall establish or maintain any hive or colony
within 50 feet of any occupied dwelling, except the dwelling of the owner of
the subject property.
               iii.   Hives shall be at least 25 feet from any property line,
sidewalk, alley, or other public way as measured from the nearest point on the
hive to the property line, sidewalk, alley, or other public right-of-way.
               iv.   No hive shall be kept or maintained within 200 feet of a
school or day care facility.
            f.   Hive standards:
               i.   Honey bee colonies shall be kept in hives with removable
frames, which shall be kept in sound and usable condition.
               ii.   Hives shall be placed on a hive stand manufactured for
that purpose and shall not be placed on cinder blocks, pallets, logs, bricks,
blocks, railroad ties, or similar materials.
               iii.   Hives shall not contain hive bodies with more than a
standard 10 frame design and shall not exceed nine and five-eighths inches in
height.
            g.   The beekeeper shall ensure that a convenient, continuous, open
source of water is available within 25 feet of the hive, stand boxes, or
apiaries and within the required fence by the following standard.
            h.   The beekeeper shall ensure that no wax comb or other material
that might encourage robbing by other honey bees are left upon the grounds of
the subject lot or parcel. Such materials once removed from the site shall be
handled and stored in sealed containers, or placed within a building or other
insect-proof container.
            i.   The beekeeper shall maintain beekeeping equipment in good
condition and shall secure unused equipment occupancy by swarms.
            j.   Violation of this subdivision shall be subject to violation
and penalty as prescribed in City Code Section 130 (Violations and Penalties).
         4.   Removal.
            a.   Honey bees shall not be kept in such a manner as to constitute
a nuisance as provided for under Chapter 5 of the City Code, or in violation of
any other subdivision of the City Code.
            b.   Persons no longer intending to keep honey bees on the subject
property shall notify the city in writing and remove the operation.
   Subd. 3.   Operation Removal. The operation shall be removed from the
property upon permit expiration and/or permit revocation. Failure to remove the
operation shall be considered a nuisance under Chapter 5 of the City Code.
§ 390.06 Non-Domestic Animals.
It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for sale,
any non-domestic animal within the city limits. Any owner of such an animal at
the time of adoption of this Code shall have 30 days in which to remove the
animal from the city after which time the city may impound the animal as
provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this prohibition
for animals specifically trained for and actually providing assistance to the
handicapped or disabled, raptors possessed by an individual holding a falconry
permit, and for those animals brought into the city as part of an operating
zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research laboratory, or a licensed show or
exhibition.
§ 390.07 Farm Animals.
Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the city, or on
a residential lot of at least ten acres in size provided that no animal shelter
shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining piece of property. An exception shall
be made to this subsection for chickens kept on residentially zoned properties
in accordance with this section and those animals brought into the city as part
of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research laboratory, or a
licensed show or exhibition.
§ 390.08 Limit on Number of Domesticated Animals.
Because the keeping of any combination of more than three dogs, cats, or any
other domesticated animals allowed outdoors, on the same residential premises,
could be subject to abuse and has the potential to cause discomfort to persons
in the area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic depreciation,
the keeping of any combination of more than three dogs, cats, or any other
domesticated animals allowed outdoors, over the age of six months, shall be
declared a nuisance and is not allowed within the city limits.
§ 390.09 Nuisances.
   Subd. 1.   Habitual Barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. Such barking must also be audible off of the owner’s or
caretaker’s premises.
   Subd. 2.   Damage to Property. It shall be unlawful for any owner to permit
their dog or other animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property. Any
animal covered by this subdivision may be impounded as provided in this section
or a complaint may be issued by anyone aggrieved by a dog under this section,
against the owner of the animal for prosecution under this section.
   Subd. 3.   Animal Waste. All animal waste shall be removed with sufficient
frequency to avoid any nuisance from odors, flies, or other similar problems.
   Subd. 4.   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are hereby
declared a public nuisance and may be abated according to the law.
§ 390.10 Animals Presenting a Danger to Health and Safety of City.
If, in the reasonable belief of any person or police officer, an animal
presents an immediate danger to the health and safety of any person, the
officer may painlessly kill the animal. Otherwise, the person or officer may
apprehend the animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement. In such a
case, the owner or keeper of the animal shall be liable for the cost of
maintenance provided, and if the animal is destroyed, a charge to dispose of
the animal, as set in the fee schedule. If the animal is found not to be a
danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to the owner or
keeper in accordance with this section. The animal may be released to other
persons in accordance with this section.
§ 390.11 Diseased Animals.
   Subd. 1.   Running at Large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his
or her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of any person, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section.
   Subd. 2.   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased
and presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be
apprehended and confined in the pound by any person or officer. The officer
shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If the animal is found
to be diseased in such a manner so as to be a danger to the health and safety
of the city, the officer shall cause such animal to be painlessly killed and
shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or keeper of the animal killed
under this section shall be liable for a fine to cover the cost of disposing of
the animal, and a per-day maintenance charge and the costs of any veterinarian
examinations. The amount of the fine and charges shall be as set in the fee
schedule.
   Subd. 3.   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be
diseased within the meaning of this section, then the animal shall be released
to the owner or keeper free of charge.
§ 390.12 Basic Care.
All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers a kind treatment, clean,
and sanitary shelter from the elements and sufficient food and water for their
comfort. Any person not treating their pet in such a humane manner will be
subject to the penalties provided in this section.
§ 390.13 Enforcing Officer.
The Council is hereby authorized to appoint any police officer(s) to enforce
the provisions of this section. In the officer’s duty of enforcing the
provisions of this section, he or she may, from time to time, with the consent
of the Council, designate certain assistants.
§ 390.14 Pound.
Every year, the Council shall designate an official pound to which animals
found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment, and if
necessary, for destruction.
§ 390.15 Impounding.
   Subd. 1.   Running at Large. Any police officer may impound any dog found
unlicensed or any animal found running at large and shall give notice of the
impounding to the owner of such dog or other animal, if known. In case the
owner is unknown, the officer shall post notice at the city office that if the
dog or other animal is not claimed within five regular business days of the
posting of the notice, it will be sold or otherwise disposed of. Except as
otherwise provided in this section, it shall be unlawful to kill, destroy, or
otherwise cause injury to any animal, including dogs and cats running at large.
   Subd. 2.   Biting Animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the city pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of such time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for such confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner’s choosing, not outside of the county, and provide immediate proof of
such confinement in such manner as may be required, the owner may do so. If,
however, the animal has been inoculated with a live modified rabies vaccine and
the owner has proof of the vaccination by a certificate from a licensed
veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or other animal to the owner’s
property.
   Subd. 3.   Reclaiming. All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with
kind treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five
regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their owners or keepers as
provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper shall desire to reclaim
the animal from the pound, the following shall be required, unless otherwise
provided for in this Code:
         1.   Payment of a release fee as set in the fee schedule;
         2.   Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day
or any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
         3.   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee and
valid certificate of vaccination for rabies and distemper shots is required.
   Subd. 4.   Unclaimed Animals. At the expiration of five regular business
days from the time any animal is impounded, if the animal has not been
reclaimed in accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer
appointed to enforce this section may let any person claim the animal by
complying with all provisions in this section, or the officer may sell the
animal to the University of Minnesota, or cause the animal to be painlessly
killed and shall properly dispose of the remains thereof. Any monies collected
under this section shall be payable to the City Administrator.
§ 390.16 Interference with Officers.
No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the Council to capture dogs, cats, or other animals and convey
them to the pound while such person is performing his or her official duties.
Nor shall any unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or
take or attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in
compliance with this section, or in any other manner to interfere with or
hinder such officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this section.
§ 390.17 Violations and Penalties.
   Subd. 1.   Separate Offenses. Each day a violation of this section is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such under this section.
   Subd. 2.   Misdemeanor. Violation of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
SECTION 391: DANGEROUS DOGS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 391.01 Purpose and Intent.
It is the intent of the city to protect the public against the health and
safety risks posed by dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs. By their very
nature, dogs classified as “dangerous” or “potentially dangerous” pose a direct
threat to the people and other animals that live in the same community or may
otherwise come into contact with them. The intent of this section is to govern
and control dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs located within the city.
This section does not regulate, govern, or control dogs not considered
dangerous or potentially dangerous, or otherwise impact the regulation and
control of other animals, whether wild or domestic.
§ 391.02 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Animal Control Authority. The City Police Department.
Dangerous Dog. Any dog that has:
         1.   Without provocation, inflicted death, great bodily harm,
substantial bodily harm, or permanent disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         2.   Without provocation, engaged in any attack on any person under
circumstances which indicated danger to personal safety;
         3.   Killed a domestic animal while off the owner’s property;
         4.   Bitten one or more persons on two or more separate occasions
without provocation;
         5.   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner
received notice or personal knowledge that the dog is potentially dangerous,
the dog aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of a human being
or domestic animal; or
         6.   Been or will be used, trained, or encouraged to fight with
another animal; or whose owner has in custody or possession any training
apparatus, paraphernalia or drugs used to prepare such dog to be fought with
another animal.
Great Bodily Harm. Shall have the meaning given it under M.S. § 609.02, subd.
8, as it may be amended from time to time.
Hearing Officer. The City Administrator or designee.
Owner. Any person, firm, corporation, association, department, or organization
possessing, harboring, keeping, having an interest in, or having care, custody,
or control of a dog. Any person keeping or harboring a dog for five consecutive
days shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be an owner thereof.
Potentially Dangerous Dog. Any dog that has:
         1.   When unprovoked, bitten a human or domestic animal on public or
private property;
         2.   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private
property, other than upon the dog owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of
attack; or
         3.   A known history or propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
while unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
Proper Enclosure. Securely confined indoors, or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure outdoors, suitable to prevent the animal from escaping
and providing the dog protection from the elements. A proper enclosure does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure in
which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
obstacles that prevent the dog from exiting. Such enclosure shall not allow the
egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or kennel,
in order to qualify as a proper enclosure, shall meet the following minimum
specifications.
         1.   The overall floor size shall have a minimum area of 32 square
feet.
         2.   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be one and one-quarter inch or larger steel
pipe buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not
provided, the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches into the ground.
         3.   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided,
constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls and shall also
have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
         4.   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of the
same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
Provocation. An act that an adult could reasonably expect may cause a dog to
attack or bite.
Substantial Bodily Harm. Shall have the meaning given to it under M.S. §
609.02, subd. 7a, as it may be amended from time to time.
Unprovoked. The condition in which the animal is not purposely excited,
stimulated, agitated, or disturbed. It shall be a rebuttable presumption that
any attack on a child 14 years of age or younger shall be considered to be
unprovoked unless the child is engaged in the commission of a crime or illegal
activity, including activities classified under M.S. Chapter 343, as it may be
amended from time to time, as cruelty to animals.
§ 391.03 Lawful Enforcement; Exemption.
The provisions of this section do not apply to dangerous dogs used by law
enforcement officials for police work.
§ 391.04 Dangerous Dogs, Designation.
   Subd. 1.   Designation. The Animal Control Authority or impartial hearing
officer shall designate any dog as a dangerous dog upon receiving evidence that
the dog meets any of the criteria in subection
391.02.
   Subd. 2.   Notice.
         1.   Upon a designation that a dog is dangerous, the Animal Control
Authority shall provide a written notice of dangerous dog to the owner of
record or, if none, to any owner of such dog by delivering or mailing it to the
owner of the dog, or by posting a copy of it at the place where the dog is
kept, or by delivering it to a person residing on the property, and
telephoning, if possible. The notice shall include the following:
            a.   A description of the dog deemed to be dangerous;
            b.   The authority for and purpose of the dangerous dog declaration
and seizure, if applicable;
            c.   The time, place, and circumstances under which the dog was
declared dangerous;
            d.   The contact person where the dog is kept, if the dog was
seized;
            e.   The identity of the official who made the determination;
            f.   The restrictions imposed upon the owner of a dangerous dog
under this section;
            g.   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the dangerous dog declaration and, if applicable, prior potentially
dangerous dog declarations for the dog, and that failure to do so within 14
days of the notice will terminate the owner’s right to a hearing under this
section;
            h.   A statement that, if an appeal request is made within 14 days
of the notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of
subsections
391.06, Subd. 2 and 391.05, Subd. 8 and until such time as the hearing officer
issues an opinion;
            i.   A statement that if the impartial hearing officer affirms the
dangerous dog declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that
decision to comply with all other requirements of subsections
391.05 and
396.06;
            j.   A form to request a hearing under this section; and
            k.   A statement that all actual costs of the care, keeping, and
disposition of the dog are the responsibility of the person claiming an
interest in the dog, except to the extent that a court or impartial hearing
officer finds that the seizure or impoundment was not substantially justified
by law.
         2.   If the owner does not request a hearing within 14 days, the
designation of dangerous dog as issued in the written notice of dangerous dog
will stand, and the owner will be subject to all restrictions and requirements
as set forth in the notice by the Animal Control Authority.
   Subd. 3.   Hearing.
         1.   If an owner, within 14 days of the date of the notice, requests a
hearing for determination as to the dangerous nature of the dog, the hearing
shall be held before an impartial hearing officer not more than 14 days after
the Animal Control Authority is notified of the owner’s request for a hearing.
Any dog owner who requests such a hearing is liable to the city for all costs
and expenses related to the hearing.
         2.   Pending the hearing, the dog may be seized and kept in the
custody of the Animal Control Authority unless the owner keeps the dog in a
proper enclosure as defined in subsection 391.02 and otherwise demonstrates to
the Animal Control Authority that the dog, under its present circumstances,
does not present an unreasonable risk of harm to persons or other domestic
animals.
         3.   The records of the Animal Control Authority, any police reports
relating to an attack or bite, medical records, and all reliable hearsay shall
be admissible for consideration by the hearing officer without further
foundation. At the hearing, both the owner and the Animal Control Authority may
present the testimony of live witnesses, cross-examine witnesses, and present
documentary evidence.
         4.   After considering all evidence pertaining to the dog, the
impartial hearing officer shall issue a written decision that rejects or
upholds the determination within ten days of the hearing. The decision must be
delivered to the dog’s owner by hand delivery or registered mail as soon as
practical, and a copy must be provided to the Animal Control Authority.
         5.   The impartial hearing officer may order the Animal Control
Authority to take the dog into custody, if the dog is not currently in custody.
Any person who fails or refuses to release a dog to the Animal Control
Authority upon demand, or after it has been found by a hearing officer to be
dangerous and ordered into custody, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
         6.   The impartial hearing officer, upon finding that a dog is
dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part of the disposition of the
case, that the dog be destroyed based on a written order containing findings of
fact establishing that:
            a.   The dog is a dangerous dog, as defined by subsection
391.02;
            b.   The owner of the dog has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to sufficiently control the dog in order to prevent injury to
persons or other animals; and
            c.   The owner refuses to provide proof of the liability insurance
for the dog as required by subsection
391.06, Subd. 3.
         7.   The decision of the impartial hearing examiner is final without
any further right of administrative appeal. An aggrieved party may obtain
review thereof by petitioning the State Court of Appeals for a writ of
certiorari not more than 30 days after notice of the decision.
         8.   In the event that the dangerous dog declaration is upheld by the
impartial hearing officer, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of
$1,000 will be the responsibility of the dog’s owner.
         9.   The actual costs of care, keeping, and disposal of the dog are
the responsibility of the dog’s owner, except to the extent that a court or
impartial hearing officer finds that the seizure or impoundment was not
substantially justified by law. The costs must be paid in full, or a mutually
satisfactory arrangement for payment must be made between the city and the
person claiming an interest in the dog, before the dog is returned to the
person.
   Subd. 4.   Exemption. A dog may not be declared dangerous if the threat,
injury, or damage was sustained by a person who:
         1.   Was committing, at the time, a willful trespass or other tort
upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog;
         2.   Was provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or who
can be shown to have repeatedly, in the past, provoked, tormented, abused, or
assaulted the dog; or
         3.   Was committing or attempting to commit a crime against the owner
or the owner’s property.
   Subd. 5.   Review of Dangerous Dog Designation. Beginning six months after a
dog is declared a dangerous dog, an owner may request annually that the Animal
Control Authority review the designation. The owner must provide evidence that
the dog’s behavior has changed due to the dog’s age, sterilization,
environment, completion of obedience training that includes modification of
aggressive behavior, or other factors. If the Animal Control Authority finds
sufficient evidence that the dog’s behavior has changed, the Authority may
rescind the dangerous dog designation.
§ 391.05 Dangerous Dogs, Registration.
   Subd. 1.   Requirements. For any dog determined or declared to be dangerous
by operation of this section, state statute, court order, ordinance, or
regulation from another jurisdiction, or valid declaration from an Animal
Control Authority, the dog shall, at all times during the dog’s life, be
registered as a dangerous dog pursuant to this section or state law.
   Subd. 2.   Registration. No person may own or possess a dangerous dog in
this city unless the dog is registered as a dangerous dog. All dogs declared
dangerous by the Animal Control Authority or impartial hearing officer, as
applicable, shall be registered as a dangerous dog with the Animal Control
Authority within 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is designated
dangerous.
   Subd. 3.   Registration Requirements. The Animal Control Authority shall
issue a certificate of registration to the owner of a dangerous dog only if the
owner presents sufficient evidence that all of the following are met:
         1.   The owner provides and maintains a proper enclosure for the
dangerous dog, as defined in subsection
391.02;
         2.   The owner posts clearly visible warning signs, available from the
Animal Control Authority, that there is a dangerous dog on the property,
including a warning symbol to inform children. The city may charge the owner a
reasonable fee to cover its administrative costs and cost of the warning
symbol;
         3.   The owner provides, and annually shows proof of, public liability
insurance pre-paid in full in the minimum amount of $500,000 per person and
$1,000,000 per incident, payable to any person or persons injured by the
dangerous dog, or a policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance
company authorized to conduct business in this state in the amount of at least
$500,000 per person and $1,000,000 per incident insuring the owner for any
personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog;
         4.   The owner pays the annual registration fee set by City Council
ordinance; or
         5.   The owner has implanted an identification microchip in the dog as
required under subsection
391.09.
   Subd. 4.   Release. If a dangerous dog was impounded by the Animal Control
Authority, or upon order of an impartial hearing officer, the dog shall not be
released until the owner demonstrates to the Animal Control Authority
compliance with all applicable requirements of this section. The owner shall
have 14 days to comply with all requirements. The owner must pay the city for
all costs incurred in the seizure and boarding of the dog prior to its return.
   Subd. 5.   Revocation.
         1.   Any certificate of registration for a dangerous dog may be
revoked, following hearing, if the owner fails to maintain compliance with any
registration requirement, or fails to keep or maintain the dangerous dog as
required by any provision of this section or applicable state law. The
provisions of subsections
391.10 and
391.11, applicable to the seizure and disposition of dogs, shall apply.
         2.   The Animal Control Authority shall serve upon the owner a written
Notice setting forth the alleged reasons why the dog is not being kept in
conformance with this section, and shall also notify the owner of the date,
time, and location of the hearing. Any hearing to revoke a certificate of
registration shall be held before a hearing officer within 20 days of the date
of the notice, and shall comply with all the requirements as set forth in
subsection
391.04, Subd. 3.
         3.   If a dangerous dog certificate of registration is revoked
following hearing, the hearing officer shall order the dog disposed of
immediately or, in the alternative, permit the owner a reasonable time period,
not to exceed 30 days, to reclaim the dog if the owner is in compliance with
all registration requirements.
   Subd. 6.   Registration Renewal. An owner of a dangerous dog shall renew the
certificate of registration annually until the dog is deceased.
   Subd. 7.   Death or Relocation of Dangerous Dog. An owner of a dangerous dog
shall notify the Animal Control Authority, in writing, of the death of the dog,
or if the dog relocates or transfers out of the city to a new location or where
the dog will reside within 30 days of the death or transfer. An owner shall, if
requested by the Animal Control Authority, execute an affidavit, under oath and
penalty of perjury, setting forth either the circumstances of the dog’s death
and disposition, or the complete name, address, and telephone number of the
person to whom the dog was transferred or the address where the dog has been
relocated.
   Subd. 8.   Sale or Transfer of Dangerous Dogs. A person who sells or
transfers ownership or control of a dangerous dog must notify any potential
purchaser or transferee, prior to the consummation of the transaction, that the
dog was previously designated as dangerous. The current owner must also notify
the Animal Control Authority, in writing, of the transfer of ownership and
provide the Animal Control Authority with the new owner’s name, address, and
telephone number.
§ 391.06 Dangerous Dogs, Requirements.
   Subd. 1.   Requirements. For any dog declared dangerous by operation of this
section, state statute, court order, an ordinance or regulation from another
jurisdiction, or by operation of a declaration by an Animal Control Authority,
the owner, in addition to complying with all the registration requirements set
forth under subsection
391.05, shall keep and maintain the dog pursuant to all requirements of this
section.
   Subd. 2.   Restraint. An owner of a dangerous dog shall keep the dog, while
on the owner’s property, in a proper enclosure as defined by subsection
391.02, Subd. 7. The dog shall, at all times, be kept in such proper enclosure
unless the dog is, at any and all times the dog is outside a proper enclosure,
muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash not to exceed six feet
in length and under the physical restraint of a responsible person 18 years of
age or older. The muzzle, chain, and leash must all be of such a design,
manufacture, and maintained in a condition that will prevent the dog from
biting any person or animal, but that will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration.
   Subd. 3.   Dog Sterilized. The owner of a dangerous dog shall have the dog
sterilized within 30 days after the owner has received a notice of dangerous
dog.
   Subd. 4.   Leased Premises. A person who owns a dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog and who rents property from another where the dog will reside
shall disclose to the property owner prior to when the dog begins to reside on
the property, or prior to entering the lease agreement, and at the time of any
lease renewal, that the person owns a dangerous dog that will reside at the
property.
   Subd. 5.   Tag. A dangerous dog registered under this section shall have a
standardized, easily identifiable tag identifying the dog as dangerous and
containing the uniform dangerous dog symbol affixed to the dog’s collar at all
times.
   Subd. 6.   Property Inspection. The owner of a dangerous dog shall permit
the Animal Control Authority to enter the property where a dangerous dog is
kept or located, at all hours reasonable under the circumstances to inspect to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this section, applicable state
statutes, order from a hearing officer, or directive from the Animal Control
Authority. The failure of an owner to permit such inspection is, by itself, a
ground to immediately seize the dog pursuant to subsection
391.10 and revoke the dangerous dog registration pursuant to subsection
391.05, Subd. 7.
   Subd. 7.   Review. If, in reviewing the conditions for keeping a dangerous
dog there have been no ordinance violations for a period of two years, the
Animal Control Authority or impartial hearing officer may use discretion in
determining whether the conditions set forth above are still required.
§ 391.07 Potentially Dangerous Dogs, Designation.
   Subd. 1.   Designation. The Animal Control Authority or impartial hearing
officer shall designate any dog as a potentially dangerous dog upon receiving
evidence that the animal meets any of the criteria in subsection
391.02.
   Subd. 2.   Notice.
         1.   Upon a designation that a dog is potentially dangerous, the
Animal Control Authority shall provide a written notice of potentially
dangerous dog to the owner of record or, if none, to any owner of such dog by
delivering or mailing it to the owner of the dog, or by posting a copy of it at
the place where the dog is kept, or by delivering it to a person residing on
the property, and telephoning, if possible. The notice shall include the
following:
            a.   A description of the dog deemed to be potentially dangerous;
            b.   The authority for and purpose of the potentially dangerous dog
declaration and seizure, if applicable;
            c.   The time, place, and circumstances under which the dog was
declared potentially dangerous;
            d.   The contact person where the dog is kept, if the dog was
seized;
            e.   The identity of the official who made the determination;
            f.   The restrictions imposed upon the owner of a potentially
dangerous dog under this section;
            g.   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the potentially dangerous dog declaration and that failure to do so
within 14 days of the notice will terminate the owner’s right to a hearing
under this section;
            h.   A statement that if the impartial hearing officer affirms the
potentially dangerous dog declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt
of that decision to comply with the requirements in the notice of potentially
dangerous dog;
            i.   A form to request a hearing under this section; and
            j.   A statement that all actual costs of the care, keeping, and
disposition of the dog are the responsibility of the person claiming an
interest in the dog, except to the extent that a court or impartial hearing
officer finds that the seizure or impoundment was not substantially justified
by law.
         2.   If the owner does not request a hearing within 14 days, the
designation of potentially dangerous dog as issued in the written notice of
potentially dangerous dog will stand, and the owner will be subject to all
restrictions and requirements as set forth in the notice by the Animal Control
Authority.
   Subd. 3.   Hearing.
         1.   If an owner requests a hearing within 14 days of the date of the
notice for determination as to the potentially dangerous nature of the dog, the
hearing shall be held before a hearing officer not more than 14 days after
demand for said hearing.
         2.   The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the requirements of
subsection
391.04, Subd. 3.
         3.   After considering all evidence pertaining to the dog, the hearing
officer shall issue a written order that rejects or upholds the determination.
The decision must be delivered to the dog’s owner by hand delivery or
registered mail as soon as practical and a copy must be provided to the Animal
Control Authority. If the hearing officer upholds the determination as
potentially dangerous, the order may affirm or modify the conditions
recommended by the Animal Control Authority. If, as a result of testimony or
other evidence at the hearing, there are grounds for declaring the dog to be a
dangerous dog pursuant to subsection 391.04, the hearing officer may change the
designation and issue the appropriate orders.
         4.   In the event that the dangerous dog declaration is upheld by the
impartial hearing officer, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of
$1,000 will be the responsibility of the dog’s owner.
         5.   The decision of the impartial hearing examiner is final without
any further right of administrative appeal. An aggrieved party may obtain
review thereof by petitioning the State Court of Appeals for a writ of
certiorari not more than 30 days after service of the hearing examiner’s
written decision.
§ 391.08 Potentially Dangerous Dogs, Requirements.
   Subd. 1.   Microchip. The owner of any dog that has been determined to be
potentially dangerous shall have a microchip installed in the dog in accordance
with subsection 391.09.
   Subd. 2.   Registration. No person may own or possess a potentially
dangerous dog in this city unless the dog is registered as a potentially
dangerous dog. All dogs declared potentially dangerous by the Animal Control
Authority or impartial hearing officer, as applicable, shall be registered as a
potentially dangerous dog with the Animal Control Authority within 14 days
after the owner has notice that the dog is designated dangerous.
   Subd. 3.   Registration Renewal. An owner of a potentially dangerous dog
shall renew the certificate of registration annually until the dog is deceased.
   Subd. 4.   Death or Relocation of Potentially Dangerous Dog. An owner of a
potentially dangerous dog shall notify the Animal Control Authority, in
writing, of the death of the dog, or if the dog relocates or transfers out of
the city to a new location or where the dog will reside within 30 days of the
death or transfer. An owner shall, if requested by the Animal Control
Authority, execute an affidavit, under oath and penalty of perjury, setting
forth either the circumstances of the dog’s death and disposition, or the
complete name, address, and telephone number of the person to whom the dog was
transferred or the address where the dog has been relocated.
   Subd. 5.   Sale or Transfer of Potentially Dangerous Dogs. A person who
sells or transfers ownership or control of a potentially dangerous dog must
notify any potential purchaser or transferee, prior to the consummation of the
transaction, that the dog was previously designated as dangerous. The current
owner must also notify the Animal Control Authority, in writing, of the
transfer of ownership and provide the Animal Control Authority with the new
owner’s name, address, and telephone number.
   Subd. 6.   Release. If a potentially dangerous dog was impounded by the
Animal Control Authority, or upon order of an impartial hearing officer, the
dog shall not be released until the owner demonstrates to the Animal Control
Authority compliance with all applicable requirements of this section. The
owner shall have 14 days to comply with all requirements. The owner must pay
the city for all costs incurred in the seizure and boarding of the dog prior to
its return.
   Subd. 7.   Other Restrictions. Any dog determined to be potentially
dangerous may be subject to any or all of the following restrictions, as
determined by the Animal Control Authority or the hearing officer.
         1.   The owner of a dog may be required to complete an approved dog
obedience class within a designated period of time, and provide proof of
completion to the Animal Control Authority.
         2.   The dog may be required to be kept in a proper enclosure, or
restrained by chain or leash not to exceed six feet in length, and/or muzzled,
and under the control of a responsible person 18 years of age or older at all
times it is outdoors and not inside a proper enclosure.
         3.   The owner may be required to post the property where the dog
resides with warning signs, available from the Animal Control Authority,
readable to children, containing a written notice and warning that a
potentially dangerous dog is present on the property.
         4.   The owner may be required to show proof of up-to-date rabies
vaccination and, if required, licensing.
         5.   The dog may be required to wear, at all times, a tag or marker
identifying it as a potentially dangerous dog.
   Subd. 8.   Review of Potentially Dangerous Dog Designation. Beginning six
months after a dog is declared a potentially dangerous dog, an owner may
request annually that the Animal Control Authority review the designation. The
owner must provide evidence that the dog’s behavior has changed due to the
dog’s age, sterilization, environment, completion of obedience training that
includes modification of aggressive behavior, or other factors. If the Animal
Control Authority finds sufficient evidence that the dog’s behavior has
changed, the Authority may rescind the potentially dangerous dog designation.
§ 391.09 Microchip Identification.
It shall be the responsibility of each owner of any dog kept or harbored within
the city and determined to be a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog under
this section, court order, state statute, designation from the Animal Control
Authority, or a substantially similar ordinance from another jurisdiction, to
ensure that a microchip is implanted in the dog for identification. The name of
the microchip manufacturer and identification number of the microchip must be
provided to the Animal Control Authority. If the microchip is not implanted by
the owner, it may be implanted by a qualified veterinarian under the direction
and control of the Animal Control Authority. All costs related to purchase and
implantation of the microchip must be borne by the dog’s owner.
§ 391.10 Confiscation.
   Subd. 1.   Dangerous Dogs. The Animal Control Authority shall immediately
seize any dangerous dog dangerous dog if:
         1.   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is
dangerous, the dog is not validly registered under subsection
391.05;
         2.   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is
dangerous, the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or surety
coverage as required under subsection 391.05, Subd. 3.3;
         3.   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure, as defined in
subsection
391.02, Subd. 7;
         4.   The dog is not sterilized, pursuant to subsection 391.06, Subd.
3, within 30 days after the owner receives the notice of dangerous dog;
         5.   The owner is served with written notice, by certified mail to the
owner’s last known address, that the owner is in violation of any of the
requirements of this section or any applicable state law, or is in violation of
any directive issued by the Animal Control Authority or order from a hearing
officer; and, within 14 days of service of such written notice, has refused or
failed to achieve satisfactory compliance;
         6.   The Animal Control Authority has reason to believe the dog is a
dangerous dog, and is kept or maintained under conditions or circumstances
creating an unacceptable risk of harm to physical persons or other domesticated
animals; or
         7.   For any other reason authorized by law.
   Subd. 2.   Security. A person claiming an interest in a seized dog may
prevent disposition of the dog by posting security in an amount sufficient to
provide for the dog’s actual cost of care and keeping. The security must be
posted within seven days of the seizure, inclusive of the date of the seizure.
   Subd. 3.   Reclaiming Dogs. A dog seized under this section may be released
to the owner of the dog upon payment of impounding and boarding fees, and
presenting proof to the Animal Control Authority that all requirements of this
section and state law have or will be met. A dog not reclaimed under this
subdivision within ten days may be disposed of in a manner permitted by law,
and the owner is liable to the Animal Control Authority for costs incurred in
confining and disposing of the dog.
   Subd. 4.   Subsequent Offenses. If a person has been convicted of a
misdemeanor for violating a provision of this section or state law and the
person is charged with a subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog
shall be seized by the Animal Control Authority. If the owner is convicted of
the crime for which the dog was seized, the hearing officer may order that the
dog be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner pay the cost of
confining and destroying the dog. If the owner is not convicted and the dog is
not reclaimed by the owner within ten days after the owner has been notified
that the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be disposed of as provided under
M.S. § 35.71, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 391.11 Destruction of Dogs in Certain Circumstances.
   Subd. 1.   A dog may be destroyed in a proper and humane manner by the
Animal Control Authority if the dog:
         1.   Inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on public
or private property without provocation;
         2.   Inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private property
without provocation;
         3.   Bit multiple human victims on public or private property in the
same attack without provocation; or
         4.   Bit a human on public or private property without provocation in
an attack where more than one dog participated in the attack.
   Subd. 2.   The Animal Control Authority may not destroy the dog until the
dog owner has had the opportunity for a hearing before an impartial hearing
officer pursuant to subsection
391.04, Subd. 3.
§ 391.12 Dog Ownership.
   Subd. 1.   Dog Ownership Prohibited. Except as provided in Subd. 3 below, no
person may own a dog if the person has:
         1.   Been convicted of a third or subsequent violation of M.S. §§
347.51, 347.515, or 347.52, as they may be amended from time to time;
         2.   Been convicted of a violation under M.S. § 609.205, clause (4),
as it may be amended from time to time;
         3.   Been convicted of a gross misdemeanor under M.S. § 609.226, subd.
1, as it may be amended from time to time;
         4.   Been convicted of a violation under M.S. § 609.226, subd. 2, as
it may be amended from time to time; or
         5.   Had a dog ordered destroyed under M.S. § 347.56, as it may be
amended from time to time, and been convicted of one or more violations of M.S.
§§ 347.51, 347.515, 347.52, or 609.226, subd. 2, as they all may be amended
from time to time.
   Subd. 2.   Household Members. If any member of a household is prohibited
from owning a dog in Subd. 1 above, unless specifically approved with or
without restrictions by an Animal Control Authority, no person in the household
is permitted to own a dog.
   Subd. 3.   Dog Ownership Prohibition Review. Beginning three years after a
conviction under Subd. 1 above that prohibits a person from owning a dog, and
annually thereafter, the person may request that the Animal Control Authority
review the prohibition. The Animal Control Authority may consider such facts as
the seriousness of the violation or violations that led to the prohibition, any
criminal convictions, or other facts that the Animal Control Authority deems
appropriate. The Animal Control Authority may rescind the prohibition entirely
or rescind it with limitations. The Animal Control Authority also may establish
conditions a person must meet before the prohibition is rescinded, including,
but not limited to, successfully completing dog training or dog handling
courses. If the Animal Control Authority rescinds a person’s prohibition and
the person subsequently fails to comply with any limitations imposed by the
Animal Control Authority or the person is convicted of any animal violation
involving unprovoked bites or dog attacks, the Animal Control Authority may
permanently prohibit the person from owning a dog in this state.
§ 391.13 Penalty.
   Subd. 1.   Any person who violates any provision of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   Subd. 2.   It is a misdemeanor to remove a microchip from a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog; to fail to renew the registration of a dangerous
dog; to fail to account for a dangerous dog’s death, transfer of ownership, or
removal from the jurisdiction; to sign a false affidavit with respect to a
dangerous dog’s death, transfer of ownership, or removal from the jurisdiction;
or to fail to disclose ownership of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog to
a property owner from whom the person rents property.
SECTION 395: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 395.01 Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to prohibit massage businesses and services to
the public except those licensed as therapeutic massage establishment and
massage therapists pursuant to this section. The licensing regulations
prescribed herein are necessary in order to prevent criminal activity and to
protect the health and welfare of the community. The purpose of this section is
not intended to impose restrictions or limitations on the freedom of protected
speech or expression.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.02 Finding of City Council.
The City Council makes the following findings regarding the need to license
therapeutic massage enterprises and therapists and to prohibit all other types
of massage businesses and services to the public:
         1.   Persons who have bona fide and standardized training in
therapeutic massage, health, and hygiene can provide a legitimate and necessary
service to the general public;
         2.   Health and sanitation regulations governing therapeutic massage
enterprises and therapists can minimize the risk of the spread of communicable
diseases and can promote overall health and sanitation;
         3.   Limiting the number of therapeutic massage enterprise licenses
and license qualifications for the restrictions on therapeutic massage
enterprises and therapists can minimize the risk that such businesses and
persons will facilitate prostitution and other criminal activity in the
community;
         4.   Massage services provided by persons with no specialized and
standardized training in massage can endanger citizens by facilitating the
spread of communicable diseases, by exposing citizens to unhealthy and
unsanitary conditions, and by increasing the risk of personal injury;
         5.   Massage businesses which employ persons with no specialized and
standardized training can tax city law enforcement services because such
businesses are more likely to be operated as fronts for prostitution and other
criminal activity than operations established by persons with standardized
training; and
         6.   The training of professional massage therapists at accredited
institutions is an important means of ensuring the fullest measure of
protecting the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
 § 395.03 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Accredited Institution. An educational institution holding accredited status
approved by the United States Department of Education or Minnesota Office of
Higher Education.
Accredited Program. A professional massage program or educational institution
accredited by the Commission on Massage Therapy Accreditation (COMTA).
Clean. The absence of dirt, grease, rubbish, garbage, and other offensive,
unsightly, or extraneous matter.
Good Repair. Free of corrosion, breaks, cracks, chips, pitting, excessive wear
and tear, leaks, obstructions, and similar defects so as to constitute a good
and sound condition.
Issuing Authority. The City Clerk or designee.
Massage Therapy or Massage. The manual manipulation of the soft tissues of the
body to promote, maintain, and restore health and well-being. “Massage therapy”
may use any of the following techniques: stroking; gliding; lifting; kneading;
jostling; vibration; percussion; compression; friction; holding; passive
stretching within the client’s physiological range of motion; movement or
manipulation of the soft tissues; active assistive and resistive movement; and
stretching. Methods of assessment for “massage therapy” may include a health
history and intake, interview; observation of posture and movement; palpation;
range of motion assessment; and with the client’s permission or if the client
is a minor, the permission of the client’s legal guardian or parent,
consultation with the client’s other health care providers.
Massage Therapist. An individual who practices or administers massage to the
public who can demonstrate to the issuing authority that he or she:
         1.   Has current professional liability insurance coverage with at
least $2,000,000 per occurrence and $6,000,000 annual aggregate, demonstrated
with a certificate of insurance including the policy number;
         2.   Is affiliated with, employed by, or owns a therapeutic massage
enterprise licensed by the city; and
         3.   Has completed 500 hours of certified therapeutic massage training
with content that includes the subjects of anatomy, physiology, hygiene,
ethics, massage theory and research, and massage practice from an accredited
program, accredited institution, or a program or institution licensed or
verified by a state licensing board or agency that has been approved by the
issuing authority. These training hours must be authenticated by a single
provider through a certified copy of the transcript of academic record from the
school issuing the training, degree, or diploma. In the event the accredited
program or accredited institution is no longer in existence, in the sole
discretion of the city, a certified copy of the transcript of academic record
may be accepted directly from the applicant with an affidavit stating said
transcript of academic record is authentic. The transcript of academic record
must be from a program or institution that was once accredited and approved by
the issuing authority. The certified copy of the transcript of academic record
must contain the applicant’s name, last address of the accredited institution
at the time of closing, and reflect the 500 hours of certified therapeutic
massage training with content that includes the subjects of anatomy,
physiology, hygiene, ethics, massage theory and research, and massage practice
as required.
Minor. Any person under the age of 18.
Operate. To own, manage, or conduct, or to have control, charge, or custody
over.
Person. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, joint
venture, or combination of individuals.
Therapeutic Massage Enterprise. An entity which operates a business which
hires/employs only licensed therapeutic massage therapists to provide
therapeutic massage to the public. The owner/operator of a “therapeutic massage
enterprise” need not be licensed as a therapeutic massage therapist if he or
she does not at any time practice or administer massage to the public. A
“therapeutic massage enterprise” may employ other individuals such as
cosmetologists and estheticians, and these individuals are not required to have
a massage therapist license as long as they are not providing therapeutic
massage to the public.
Within the City. Physical presence within the city.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.04 License Required.
   Subd. 1.   Therapeutic Massage Enterprise License. It shall be unlawful for
any person or entity to own, operate, engage in, or carry on, within the city,
any type of massage services to the public for consideration without first
having obtained a therapeutic massage enterprise license from the city pursuant
to this section.
   Subd. 2.   Massage Therapist License. It shall be unlawful for any
individual to practice, administer, or provide massage services to the public
for consideration within the city without first having obtained a massage
therapist license from the city pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.05 Exceptions.
A therapeutic massage enterprise or therapist license is not required for the
following persons and places:
         1.   Persons duly licensed by this state to practice medicine,
surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy, or podiatry, or
professional practices licensed or registered by this state and regulated by a
governmental body with a board where concerns and complaints could be directed,
provided the massage is administered in the regular course of the medical
business and not provided as part of a separate and distinct massage business;
         2.   Persons duly licensed by this state as beauty culturists or
barbers; provided such persons do not hold themselves out as giving massage
treatments and provided the massage by beauty culturists is limited to the
head, hand, neck, and feet and the massage by barbers is limited to the head
and neck;
         3.   Persons working solely under the direction and control of a
person duly licensed by this state to practice medicine, surgery, osteopathy,
chiropractic, physical therapy, or podiatry or professional practices licensed
or registered by this state and regulated by a governmental body with a board
where concerns and complaints could be directed;
         4.   Places duly licensed or operating as a hospital, nursing home,
hospice, sanitarium, or group home established for the hospitalization or care
of human beings;
         5.   Students of an accredited institution who are performing massage
services in the course of a clinical component of an accredited program of
study, provided that the students are performing the massage services at the
location of the accredited institution or provided the students are limited to
performing massage therapy only on owners or staff of licensed massage
enterprises and not on members of the public; or
         6.   Individuals licensed in another municipality performing massage
services as part of a wellness event/expo where such event will not be more
than three days in length. Written notice must be provided to the city and must
include dates, times, and location(s) of such event.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.06 License Application.
   Subd. 1.   Therapeutic Massage Enterprise License Application. An
application for a therapeutic massage enterprise license shall be made on a
form supplied by the City Clerk. Any falsification of information on the
license application shall result in the denial of the license and the applicant
may be subject to prosecution for forgery as defined by the state statutes.
Each application shall request the following information:
         1.   All applicants. For all applicants:
            a.   Whether the applicant is an individual, corporation,
partnership, or other form of organization;
            b.   The legal description of the premises to be licensed together
with a plan of the area showing dimensions, location of buildings, street
access, and parking facilities;
            c.   The floor number, street number, suite number(s), and rooms
where the massage services are to be conducted;
            d.   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are
due and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not
paid, the years and amounts that are unpaid;
            e.   Whenever the application is for premises either planned or
under construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application shall
be accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed
premises to be licensed. If the plans for design are on file with the city’s
Building and Inspection Department, no plans need be submitted to the issuing
authority;
            f.   The name, street address, and suite number(s) of the business
if it is to be conducted under a designation, name, or style other than the
name of the applicant, and a certified copy of the certificate as required by
M.S. § 333.02, as it may be amended from time to time;
            g.   All applications for licenses, whether enterprise or
individual applications, shall be signed and sworn to. If the application is
that of a natural person, it shall be signed and sworn to by such person; if by
a corporation, by an officer thereof; if by an incorporated association, by the
manager or officer thereof; if by a limited liability company (LLC), by a
member thereof;
            h.   Whether the applicant has had an interest in, as an individual
or as part of a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business, or
firm, a massage license that was denied, revoked, or suspended within the last
ten years of the date the license application is submitted to the issuing
authority;
            i.   Such application must identify a responsible party relative to
each license who shall be responsible for the conduct of the business. If the
responsible party for a licensee will change, an application for the change
shall be provided to the City Clerk at least 30 days prior to such change and
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license. In the event
that a 30-day prior notice is not feasible, a written explanation will be
submitted to the City Clerk within one week of the known change documenting the
reason(s) for the deviation; this is subject to approval by the Police Chief or
his/her designee. Failure to file a timely application or explanation for a
change in responsible party shall be grounds for revocation, suspension or non-
renewal of any license;
            j.   Whether the applicant has ever been engaged in the operation
of massage services. If so, applicant shall furnish information as to the name,
place, dates, and length of time of the involvement of any and all such
establishments;
            k.   Such other information as the City Council or issuing
authority shall require; and
            l.   Applicant is responsible for reading and understanding the
city ordinance regarding therapeutic massage and for communicating and
providing interpretation when necessary to all massage therapists licensed at
the enterprise to ensure compliance.
         2.   Individuals. For applicants who are individuals:
            a.   The name, place and date of birth, and street residence
address of the applicant;
            b.   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name
other than the applicant’s name, and if so, the name or names and information
concerning dates and places where used;
            c.   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or a
resident alien or has the legal authority to work in the United States;
            d.   Street addresses and dates at which the applicant has lived
during the preceding ten years;
            e.   The type, name, location, and dates of every business or
occupation the applicant has been engaged in during the preceding ten years;
            f.   Whether the applicant is currently licensed in other
communities to perform massage therapy, and if so, where;
            g.   Names, addresses, contact information, and dates of the
applicant’s employment for the preceding ten years;
            h.   Whether the applicant has ever been arrested, charged, or
convicted of any felony, crime, or violation of any ordinance other than a
minor traffic offense. If so, the applicant shall furnish information as to the
date, time, place, and offense for which arrests, charges, or convictions were
had;
            i.   Whether the applicant has had an interest in, as an individual
or as part of a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business, or
firm, a massage license that was revoked or suspended within the last ten years
of the date the license application is submitted to the issuing authority;
            j.   Whether the applicant has ever been engaged in the operation
of massage services. If so, applicant shall furnish information as to the name,
dates, place, and length of time of the involvement in such an establishment;
and
            k.   Such other information as the City Council or issuing
authority shall require.
         3.   Partnerships. For the applicants that are partnerships: the names
and addresses of all general and limited partners and all information
concerning each general partner as is required in Subd. 1(1)(b) above. The
managing partners shall be designated and the interest of each general and
limited partner in the business shall be disclosed. A true copy of the
partnership agreement shall be submitted with the application, and if the
partnership is required to file a certificate as to a trade name under M.S. §
333.02, as it may be amended from time to time, a certified copy of such
certificate shall be submitted. The license shall be issued in the name of the
partnership.
         4.   Corporations and Other Organizations. For applicants that are
corporations or other types of organizations:
            a.   The name of the organization, and if incorporated, the state
of incorporation;
            b.   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, and, if a
foreign corporation, a certificate of authority as described in M.S. § 303.02,
as it may be amended from time to time;
            c.   The name of the general manager, corporate officers,
proprietor, and other person in charge of the premises to be licensed, and all
the information about said persons as is required in Subd. 1(1)(b) above; and
            d.   A list of all persons who own or control an interest in the
corporation or organization or who are officers of said corporation or
organization, together with their addresses and all the information regarding
such persons as is required in Subd. 1(2) above.
   Subd. 2.   Massage Therapist License Application. An application for a
massage therapist license shall be made on a form supplied by the City Clerk
and shall request the following information:
         1.   The applicant’s name and current address;
         2.   The applicant’s current employer;
         3.   The applicant’s employers for the previous ten years, including
the employer’s name, address, and dates of employment;
         4.   The applicant’s addresses and dates for the previous ten years;
         5.   The applicant’s date of birth, home telephone number, weight,
height, color of eyes, and color of hair. A color photocopy of the applicant’s
state driver’s license or state I.D. front and back, or any other government-
issued I.D. If the photocopy is not acceptable to the Police Chief, the Police
Department may take photographs for the file;
         6.   Whether the applicant has ever been arrested, charged, or
convicted of any felony, crime, or violation of any ordinance other than a
minor traffic offense and, if so, the time, place, date(s), and offense for
which arrests, charges, or convictions were had;
         7.   Whether the applicant has had an interest in, as an individual or
as part of a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business, or
firm, a massage license that was denied, revoked, or suspended within the last
ten years of the date the license application is submitted to the issuing
authority;
         8.   The names, resident, and business addresses and contact
information of those residents of the metropolitan area, of good moral
character, not related to the applicant or financially interested in the
premises of the business, who may be referred to as to the applicant’s
character;
         9.   Whether the applicant is a U.S. citizen or resident alien or has
the legal authority to work in the United States;
         10.   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name
other than the applicant’s name, and if so, the name or names and information
concerning dates and places where used;
         11.   Whether the applicant has met the definition of a massage
therapist in § 395.03;
         12.   Whether the applicant has ever been the subject of an
investigation, public or private, criminal, or non-criminal, regarding massage
therapy; and
         13.   Such other information as the City Council or issuing authority
shall require.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.07 License Fees.
The fees for a therapeutic massage enterprise and therapist licenses shall be
set forth in the city fee schedule appendix as adopted and/or amended by the
City Council. An investigation fee shall be charged for therapeutic massage
enterprise licenses and an individual therapeutic massage license. Each
application for a license shall be accompanied by payment in full of the
required license and investigation fees. No investigation fee shall be
refunded.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.08 License Application Verification and Consideration.
   Subd. 1.   Therapeutic Massage Enterprise License. All applications shall be
referred to the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, and such other city
departments as the City Administrator shall deem necessary for verification and
investigation of the facts set forth in the application. The Chief of Police,
or his or her designee, is empowered to conduct any and all investigations to
verify the information on the application, including ordering a computerized
criminal history inquiry and/or a driver’s license history inquiry on the
applicant. The individual or individual associated with an entity listed above
applying for an initial therapeutic massage enterprise license must submit to
mandatory fingerprinting by the Police Department. The Chief of Police, or his
or her designee, is authorized to access data maintained in the Minnesota
Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions Computerized Criminal History information
system in accordance with BCA policy. The Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, and other consultants shall make a written recommendation to the City
Council as to the issuance or non-issuance of the license. The City Council or
Chief of Police or his or her designee may order and conduct such additional
investigation as it deems necessary, including, but not limited to, contacting
other state agencies. Upon completion of its investigation, the Council shall
grant or deny the license unless the application is withdrawn prior to Council
action.
   Subd. 2.   Massage Therapist License.
         1.   Verification and Consideration. Within a reasonable period after
receipt of a complete application and applicable fees for a massage therapist
license, the issuing authority shall make recommendation to grant or deny the
application. The issuing authority is empowered to conduct any and all
investigations to verify the information on the application, including ordering
a computerized criminal history inquiry, background check, and/or a driver’s
license history inquiry on the applicant. All individual applicants applying
for an initial massage therapist license must submit to mandatory finger
printing by the Police Department. The massage therapist applicant must also
provide three letters of reference from former employers or in conjunction with
instructors who provided vocational instruction associated with the 500 hours
of massage therapy study. The City Council or Chief of Police or his or her
designee may order and conduct such additional investigation as it deems
necessary, including but not limited to contacting other state agencies. Notice
shall be sent by the City Clerk by regular mail to the applicant upon a denial
informing the applicant of the right to appeal to the City Council within 20
days. If an appeal is properly made, the matter shall be scheduled before a
hearing officer, on behalf of the City Council, for consideration and
conclusion.
         2.   Photo ID Cards. The message therapist applicant must provide a
current two by two-inch color photo of the applicant that clearly shows the
full applicant’s uncovered face in view. This photo shall be affixed to the
license at all times if approved by the City Council and will have it readily
available whenever the applicant is on the property of the massage enterprise
applicant’s property.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.09 Persons Ineligible for License.
   Subd. 1.   Therapeutic Massage Enterprise License. No therapeutic massage
enterprise license shall be issued to an individual or entity which:
         1.   Is not 18 years of age or older at the time the application is
submitted to the issuing authority;
         2.   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the
occupation licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 2, as it may be
amended from time to time, and who has not shown competent evidence of
sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties and
responsibilities of a licensee as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 3, as it
may be amended from time to time;
         3.   Has had an interest in, as an individual or as part of a
corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business, or firm, a massage
license in any jurisdiction that was denied, revoked, or suspended within the
last ten years of the date the license application is submitted to the issuing
authority;
         4.   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien, or is
legally prohibited from working in the United States;
         5.   Is not of good moral character or repute;
         6.   Is not the real party in interest of the enterprise;
         7.   Has knowingly misrepresented or falsified information on a
license application at any time in the preceding ten years;
         8.   Cannot meet the definition of therapeutic massage enterprise in
subsection 395.03 of this Code;
         9.   Owes taxes or assessments to the state, county, school district,
or city that are due and delinquent; and
         10.   Allowed a license to expire or surrendered a license, unless, at
the sole discretion of the city, a license application is submitted for
consideration. The application shall be treated the same as an application for
a new license, subject to all ordinance regulations and review.
   Subd. 2.   Massage Therapist License. No massage therapist license shall be
issued to a person who:
         1.   Is not 18 years of age or older at the time the application is
submitted to the issuing authority;
         2.   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the
occupation licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 2, as it may be
amended from time to time, and who has not shown competent evidence of
sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties and
responsibilities of a licensee as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 3, as it
may be amended from time to time;
         3.   Whether the applicant has had an interest in, individually or as
part of a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business, or firm,
a massage license that was denied, revoked or suspended within the last ten
years of the date the license application is submitted to the issuing
authority;
         4.   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien, or is
legally prohibited from working in the United States;
         5.   Is not of good moral character or repute;
         6.   Has knowingly misrepresented or falsified information on a
license application at any time in the preceding ten years;
         7.   Is not affiliated with, employed by, or does not own a
therapeutic massage enterprise licensed by the city;
         8.   Cannot meet the definition of massage therapist in subsection
395.03 of this Code; or
         9.   Allowed a license to expire or surrendered a license, unless, at
the sole discretion of the city, a license application is submitted for
consideration. The application shall be treated the same as an application for
a new license, subject to all ordinance regulations and review.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.10 Locations Ineligible for Therapeutic Massage Enterprise License.
   Subd. 1.   Delinquent Taxes. No therapeutic massage enterprise shall be
licensed if such enterprise is located on property on which taxes, assessments,
or other financial claims to the state, county, school district, or city are
due and delinquent. In the event a suit has been commenced under M.S. §§ 278.01
through 278.13, as they may be amended from time to time, questioning the
amount or validity of taxes, the City Council may on application waive strict
compliance with this provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes or
any portion thereof, which remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year after
becoming due.
   Subd. 2.   Improper Zoning. No therapeutic massage enterprise shall be
licensed if the location of such enterprise is not in conformance with the
city’s Zoning Code.
   Subd. 3.   Building, Fire, and Code Compliance Violations. No therapeutic
massage enterprise shall be licensed if the location of such enterprise is not
in compliance with state building and fire codes in addition to this Code.
   Subd. 4.   Distinct Entrance. No therapeutic massage enterprise, unless a
home- based enterprise, shall be licensed if the location of such enterprise
does not have a distinct, front-facing, public entrance. A distinct, front-
facing public entrance for an entire building is required for enterprise
locations with multiple suites.
   Subd. 5.   Previous License Infractions. No therapeutic massage enterprise
license shall be issued or renewed if the massage therapy enterprise has
employed two or more massage therapists whose licenses have been suspended and/
or revoked within any 12-month period during period of employment.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.11 License Restrictions.
   Subd. 1.   Posting of License. A therapeutic massage enterprise license
issued must be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises for which it is
used. A person licensed as a massage therapist shall also post their massage
therapist license, with color photo, in a conspicuous place on the premises at
which the therapist is associated. A person licensed as a massage therapist
shall have it readily available at all times where therapeutic massage services
are rendered, and the photo identification as noted in subsection 395.08, Subd.
2(2).
   Subd. 2.   Licensed Premises. A therapeutic massage enterprise license is
only effective for the compact and contiguous space specified in the approved
license application. If the licensed premises are enlarged, altered, or
extended, the licensee shall inform the City Clerk within ten business days. A
massage therapist license shall entitle the licensed therapist to perform on-
site massage at the therapeutic massage enterprise they are licensed for, the
place of residence of the licensed massage therapist or client, or at an
office, business, park, or institution excluding hotel and motel guest rooms.
It shall be the continuing duty of each licensee to properly notify the City
Clerk, within ten business days, of any change in the information or facts
required to be furnished on the application for license and failure to comply
with this section shall constitute cause for revocation or suspension of such
license. All therapeutic massage must be performed within a building with a
valid certificate of occupancy and not in or upon any vacant lot, lot, motor
vehicle, trailer, tent, or railroad car, including, but not limited to,
structures not meant for human habitation.
   Subd. 3.   Transfer of License Prohibited. The license issued is for the
person or the premises named on the approved license application. No transfer
of a license shall be permitted from place to place or from person to person
without complying with the requirements of an original application.
   Subd. 4.   Affiliation with Enterprise Required. A massage therapist shall
be employed by, affiliated with, or own a massage enterprise business licensed
by the city, unless a person or place is specifically exempted from obtaining a
therapeutic massage enterprise license in subsection 395.05 of this Code.
   Subd. 5.   Employment of Unlicensed Massage Therapists Prohibited. No
therapeutic massage enterprise shall employ or use any person to perform
massage who is not licensed as a therapeutic massage therapist under this
subsection, unless the person is specifically exempted from obtaining a
therapist license in subsection 395.05 this Code.
   Subd. 6.   Effect of License Suspension or Revocation. No licensee shall
solicit business or offer to perform massage services while under license
suspension or revocation by the city.
   Subd. 7.   Massage of Certain Body Parts Prohibited. At no time shall the
massage therapist intentionally massage or offer to massage the penis, scrotum,
mons veneris, vulva, or vaginal area of a person.
   Subd. 8.   Restrictions Regarding Hours of Operation. No therapeutic massage
enterprise shall be open for business, nor will any therapeutic massage
therapist offer massage services, before 6:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m. any day
of the week. No customers or patrons shall be allowed to remain upon the
licensed premises after 9:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m. daily. Support
activities such as cleaning, maintenance and bookkeeping are allowed outside of
business hours.
   Subd. 9.   Proof of Local Residency Required.
         1.   In the case of a therapeutic massage enterprise, the licensee,
managing partner, or manager of the licensed premise must show proof of
residency within 150 miles of the city.
         2.   In the case of therapeutic massage therapists, the licensee must
show proof of residing within 150 miles of the city.
   Subd. 10.   Inspections. In light of the high risk of involvement with
illegal conduct an establishment providing illicit massage therapy poses to the
general public, the issuing authority, environmental health department or
designee, and/or the city Police Department shall have the right to enter,
inspect, and search the licensed premises during the hours in which the
licensed premises is open for business to ensure compliance with all provisions
of this section. Any search of the licensed premises is subject to
reasonableness standards as recognized by the courts; search warrants will be
secured when applicable. Any entry into a private residence will require either
consent, exigent circumstances, or a search warrant. Licenses shall be granted
only to establishments which can meet the safety and sanitary requirements of
the city and of the building code regulations of the city and state.
   Subd. 11.   Illegal Activities. In addition to the license restrictions set
forth in this section, any advertising, marketing, audio, or visual recordings
by a licensee or representative of licensee of any potential unlawful,
misleading, sexually explicit, obscene, or erotic conduct at the licensed
establishment shall be prohibited. A licensee or representative of licensee
shall obtain voluntary signed consent from a patient who agrees with being
audio or visually recorded for the purposes of advertisement or marketing for
the establishment so long as the licensee and establishment conform with state
laws and said ordinance requirements. All audio or visual recordings other than
for the purposes of advertising and marketing are prohibited. A licensee under
this chapter shall be strictly responsible for the conduct of the business
being operated in compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances, including
the actions of any employee or agent of the licensee on the licensed premises.
No audio or visual recording is allowed at any time.
   Subd. 12.   Restrictions Involving Minors. No person under the age of 18
shall be permitted at any time to be in an area where massages are performed as
a customer, guest, or employee, unless accompanied by or with the written
permission of his/her parent or guardian.
   Subd. 13.   Habitation. Massage enterprises that are not home based shall
not contain nor allow the use by any person of sleeping quarters or living
spaces of any kind intended for habitation, including, but not limited to,
beds, cots, or mattresses. Home-based enterprises shall not contain nor allow
the use by any person of sleeping quarters or living spaces of any kind
intended for habitation, including, but not limited to, beds, cots, or
mattresses in any area where massage is performed.
   Subd. 14.   Intoxicating Alcoholic Beverages. Per M.S. § 340A.401, as it may
be amended from time to time, no person may directly or indirectly, on any
pretense or by any device, sell, barter, keep for sale, charge for possession
beverages onsite. Intoxicating alcoholic beverages does not include alcohol
used in direct conjunction with massage therapy such as in cleaning.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.12 Term; Renewal of License.
   Subd. 1.   The term of a massage therapist license and a therapeutic massage
enterprise license is one year. If an individual or enterprise submits a new
application any time during a calendar year, the term shall expire December 31
of the year of issuance. The new application license fee for a partial calendar
year may be pro-rated to one-half of the annual fee if an application is filed
with the issuing authority after June 30.
   Subd. 2.   Licenses must be renewed annually. A massage therapist license
issued under this section shall expire on December 31 of the year of issuance
of the license. A therapeutic massage enterprise license issued under this
section shall expire on December 31 of the year of issuance. An application for
the renewal of an existing license shall be made in such form as the issuing
authority requires.
   Subd. 3.   An application for a renewal of an enterprise or individual
license shall be made on the renewal application form provided by the city. The
license and investigation fees for a renewal shall be as set forth in the
adopted city fee schedule. If the license holder is a corporation, licenses
must also be renewed within 30 days whenever more than 10% of the
corporation’'s stock is transferred. If the license holder is a partnership,
the license must also be renewed within 30 days whenever a new partner is added
to the partnership. If the license holder is an LLC, the license must be
renewed within 30 days whenever a change in membership or chief manager occurs.
   Subd. 4.   After the completion of the renewal license verification process,
the issuing authority shall present the enterprise license application to the
City Council in accordance with this section. If the application is denied, the
City Clerk shall notify the applicant of the determination in writing and by
regular mail to the address provided on the application form. The notice shall
inform the applicant of the right, within 20 days after receipt of the notice
by the applicant, to request an appeal of the denial. If an appeal is timely
received by the City Clerk, the hearing before a hearing officer, on behalf of
the City Council, shall take place within a reasonable period of receipt of the
appeal by the issuing authority.
   Subd. 5.   After the completion of the renewal license verification process,
the issuing authority shall issue the massage therapist license in accordance
with this section. If the application is denied, the City Clerk shall notify
the applicant of the determination in writing and by regular mail to the
address provided on the application form. The notice shall inform the applicant
of the right, within 20 days after receipt of the notice by the applicant, to
request an appeal of the denial. If an appeal is timely received by the City
Clerk, the hearing before a hearing officer, on behalf of the City Council,
shall take place within a reasonable period of receipt of the appeal by the
issuing authority.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.13 Sanctions for License Violations.
    Subd. 1.   Suspension or Revocation. A hearing officer, on behalf of the
City Council may impose an administrative penalty, suspend or revoke a license
issued pursuant to this subsection, at its discretion, for:
         1.   A violation related to fraud, misrepresentation, or false
statement contained in a license application or a renewal application;
         2.   A violation related to fraud, misrepresentation, or false
statement made in the course of carrying on the licensed occupation or
business;
         3.   Any violation of this section or state law;
         4.   A violation by any licensee or individual that is directly
related to the occupation or business licensed as defined by M.S. § 364.03,
subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time;
         5.   Conducting the licensed business or occupation in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the community;
         6.   If the owner, manager, lessee, or any of the employees are found
to be in control or possession of an alcoholic beverage, a narcotic drug, or
controlled substance on the premises, other than drugs which may be purchased
over the counter without a prescription or those for which the individual has a
prescription. Alcohol products for use under subsection 395.11, Subd. 14, used
in direct conjunction with massage therapy, are exempt from this section.
         7.   If the holder of an enterprise license fails to maintain with the
issuing authority a current list of all employees of such licensed premises.
The list shall include all massage therapists licensed under this section;
         8.   A material variance in the actual plan and design of the premises
from the plans submitted;
         9.   Neither the charging of a criminal violation nor a criminal
conviction is required in order for the hearing officer on behalf of the
council or issuing authority to impose an administrative penalty or suspend,
deny, or revoke a license; or
         10.   In the event of multiple massage enterprise locations, any
license suspension/revocation shall apply to any and all massage enterprise
locations within the city.
   Subd. 2.   Notice and Hearing. A revocation or suspension by the hearing
officer, on behalf of the City Council, shall be preceded by written notice to
the licensee. The notice shall give at least ten days’ notice of the time and
place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the charges against the
licensee. The notice shall be mailed by regular mail to the licensee at the
most recent address listed on the license application.
   Subd. 3.   Ability to Reapply after Revocation. The holder of a massage
enterprise license or massage therapist license may not reapply for a new
license for a period of five years if their license is revoked under this
section.
   Subd. 4.   Ability to Reapply after Denial. The applicant for a massage
enterprise license or massage therapist license may not reapply for a license
for a period of five years if the applicant's license has previously been
denied due to fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in a
previous license or renewal application.
   Subd. 5.   Previous License Infractions. In the event there is a license
infraction or a pending citation involving a licensed establishment and/or a
licensed massage therapist, the city may, at its option, choose to not to take
action on any license or renewal application until such infraction or pending
citation has been resolved. The applicant for a massage enterprise license or
massage therapist license may not be eligible to reapply for a license for a
period of five years if the licensee is convicted of any violation of the
ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.14 Suspension of License for Violations.
The Chief of Police or his or her designee may immediately suspend a license,
pending a hearing, if the licensee, or any person working on behalf of the
licensee, is determined to be conducting business in an unlawful manner, any
manner that constitutes a breach of the peace or a menace to the health,
safety, or general welfare of the public, or after repeated complaints received
regarding conduct of business practices or method of solicitation.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.15 Violations and Penalties.
Any person or entity violating the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor under state law and shall be punished by a fine or by imprisonment,
or both, together with the costs of prosecution. Each violation of this section
shall constitute a separate offense. The facts leading to arrests, charges, or
conviction of a violation of this section, while not required, may be
considered in identifying grounds for the nonrenewal, suspension, denial or
revocation of any license issued under this section.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
§ 395.16 Severability.
If any subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this section is for any
reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this section. The City Council hereby declares that it
would have adopted the section in each section, subsection, sentence, clause,
or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared invalid.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-14-2024)
SECTION 396: FIREWORKS
§ 396.01 Violations.
   Subd. 1.   Any violation of state statutes regarding fireworks or this
section will result in the revocation of any permit to sell or store fireworks.
   Subd. 2.   Materials that violate state statutes or this Code may be
confiscated and destroyed. Costs associated with disposal shall be paid by the
violator and/or be assessed back to the property.
§ 396.02 Discharge Rules and Regulations.
   Subd. 1.   It is unlawful to use or discharge any fireworks along a parade
route prior to, during, or after any parade, or at any place of public
assembly, parks, or government property.
   Subd. 2.   It is unlawful at any time to throw or toss any fireworks at any
person, animal, vehicle, or other thing or object.
   Subd. 3.   The discharge of fireworks shall be prohibited within 300 feet of
any building in which fireworks are sold or stored.
   Subd. 4.   Fireworks may only be discharged in an area with a water source
connected to a hose, fire extinguisher, and/or other means of putting out a
fire that is acceptable to the Fire Chief or his or her designee.
   Subd. 5.   The Fire Chief or his or her designee may ban fireworks for any
period of time for any public safety reason.
   Subd. 6.   No one under the age of 18 years may possess fireworks unless
under the direct supervision of a responsible adult.
§ 396.03 Governing Regulations.
Fireworks are regulated by M.S. §§ 624.20 through 624.25, as they may be
amended from time to time. In addition to these state laws, all display, sales,
storage, and use of fireworks shall comply with this section.
§ 396.04 Acts Prohibited without Permit.
No person shall do any of the following without obtaining a fireworks permit,
and if selling outside, a general planning permit:
         1.   Store or sell any fireworks; or
         2.   Make a public display of fireworks.
§ 396.05 Permit Application.
   Subd. 1.   The application for a permit to store or sell fireworks shall be
made to the City Clerk or his or her designee on a form provided by the city.
   Subd. 2.   A criminal record check will be done on all applicants.
   Subd. 3.   The Fire Chief or his or her designee will inspect the proposed
location for selling and/or storing fireworks to determine if it is a suitable
location.
   Subd. 4.   The Fire Chief or his or her designee will determine if the
applicant is competent and trained to handle fireworks.
   Subd. 5.   The application for a permit must include:
         1.   A letter from the property owner granting permission to the
applicant to sell and/or store fireworks on the property;
         2.   A floor plan designating the area where the fireworks will be
sold and/or stored;
         3.   A list of the fireworks that will be sold. The list must include
the name, weight, quantity, and material safety data sheets; and
         4.   A certificate of insurance coverage as set forth in subsection
396.07.
§ 396.06 Permit Fee.
The fee for a permit to store or sell fireworks and, if necessary, a general
planning permit shall be that as provided in the current city fee schedule.
§ 396.07 Terms and Conditions for Issuance of Permit.
   Subd. 1.   A permit for the storage and/or retail sale of fireworks shall be
issued only upon the following terms and conditions.
         1.   The applicant shall not have been convicted of a crime of
violence as defined by M.S. § 624.712, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time
to time, or any fire/fireworks related crime within the last five years.
         2.   The applicant shall maintain general liability, bodily injury,
and property damage insurance approved by the city in the minimum amount of
$1,000,000 single limit. The city shall be named as an additional insured.
Certificates of coverage shall be filed with the City Clerk with the
application.
         3.   No sale of fireworks shall occur on property zoned residential or
properties used for educational or assembly purposes. Transient sales of
fireworks are not permitted.
         4.   When the sale of fireworks is from a truck, trailer, tent, or
other facility that is temporary in nature, a general planning permit is
required, as well as a fireworks permit. Also, the following standards shall be
met for the issuance of a general planning permit.
            a.   No electrical services shall be across any drive or walking
surface.
            b.   The sale of fireworks must be at least 50 feet from any fuel-
dispensing equipment.
            c.   If traffic becomes a problem around the temporary site, the
sales area shall be delineated with a barrier to restrict traffic.
            d.   The sales tent shall be maintained free of debris and kept in
an orderly condition.
            e.   The location of the tent is consistent with the submitted site
plan and meets all fire codes.
            f.   The tent shall be removed within one week of the end of the
sales period and the site be returned to its previous condition.
            g.   Other standards may be required on a site-by-site basis.
   Subd. 2.   Fireworks sales and/or storage areas shall have signs designated
“no smoking” in red letters not less than two inches in height on white
background. All signs shall be maintained in legible condition. Signage must be
approved by the Fire Chief or his or her designee.
   Subd. 3.   The discharge of fireworks shall be prohibited within 300 feet of
any building in which fireworks are being sold or stored.
   Subd. 4.   Each permit holder shall have at least two water-type or
equivalent fire extinguishers of not less than two and one-half gallon capacity
in the area where the fireworks are sold or stored.
   Subd. 5.   There shall be at least two exits from all buildings where
fireworks are being sold or stored.
   Subd. 6.   In buildings without an approved automatic sprinkler system,
fireworks sales displays and/or storage shall be limited to 50 pounds net
pyrotechnic composition or 200 pounds gross weight, if the pyrotechnic
composition weight is not known.
   Subd. 7.   A list of all fireworks displayed for sale and stored on the
property must be posted in a conspicuous location near the display/storage
area. The list shall include the name, weight, and quantity of the fireworks
and shall be accompanied by the material safety data sheets. Upon request,
samples of the fireworks shall be made available to the Fire Chief or his or
her designee for testing.
   Subd. 8.   A permit granted pursuant to this section is not transferable.
   Subd. 9.   Fireworks shall not be sold to people less than 18 years of age.
CHAPTER 4: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
      
400.   INTOXICATING LIQUOR
      
410.   MUNICIPAL LIQUOR DISPENSARY
      
420.   3.2% MALT LIQUOR LICENSING
      
430.   GENERAL RESTRICTIONS
Subsection
Section 400: Intoxicating Liquor
   
400.01   Provisions of State Law Adopted
   
400.02   License Required
   
400.03   Application for License
   
400.04   License Fees
   
400.05   Granting of Licenses
   
400.06   Hours
   
400.07   Persons Ineligible for License
   
400.08   Places Ineligible for License
   
400.09   Conditions of License
   
400.10   Suspension and Revocation
   
400.11   Restriction on Purchase and Consumption
   
400.12   Regulation of Outdoor Areas in On-Sale Liquor, Wine, and 3.2% Malt
Liquor Establishments
Section 410: Municipal Liquor Dispensary
   
410.01   Provisions of State Law Adopted
   
410.02   Dispensary Established
   
410.03   Location and Operation
   
410.04   Dispensary Funds
   
410.05   Prohibited Business
   
410.06   Enforcement
Section 420: 3.2% Malt Liquor Licensing
   
420.01   Provisions of State Law Adopted
   
420.02   Definition of Terms
   
420.03   License Required
   
420.04   License Applications
   
420.05   License Fees
   
420.06   Granting of License
   
420.07   Persons Ineligible for License
   
420.08   Places Ineligible for License
   
420.09   Conditions of License
   
420.10   Closing Hours
   
420.11   Clubs
   
420.12   Revocation
Section 430: General Restrictions
   
430.01   Minors
   
430.02   Consumption Prohibited
   
430.03   Liquor Consumption and Display
   
430.04   Nudity
SECTION 400: INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 400.01 Provisions of State Law Adopted.
The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales, conditions
of bonds of licensees, hours of sale, and all other matters pertaining to the
retail sale, distribution, and consumption of intoxicating liquor are adopted
and made a part of this section as if set out in full.
§ 400.02 License Required.
   Subd. 1.   General Requirement. No person, except a wholesaler or
manufacturer to the extent authorized under state license, shall directly or
indirectly deal in, sell, or keep for sale in the city any intoxicating liquor
without a license to do so as provided in this section. Liquor licenses shall
be of four kinds: “on-sale,” “on-sale wine,” club licenses, and special Sunday
liquor licenses.
   Subd. 2.   On-Sale Intoxicating Licenses. “On-sale” licenses shall be issued
only to hotels, clubs, and restaurants and shall permit the sale of liquor only
for consumption on the licensed premises. “Restaurant” means any building,
structure, or area used as, maintained as, advertised as, or held out to the
public for food and beverage service, whether the establishment serves
alcoholic or non-alcoholic beverages, which operates from a location for more
than 21 days annually.
   Subd. 3.   On-Sale Wine Licenses. “On-sale wine” licenses shall be issued
only to restaurants meeting the qualifications of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 5, as
it may be amended from time to time, and shall permit only the sale of wine not
exceeding 14% alcohol by volume, for consumption on licensed premises only, in
conjunction with the sale of food. The holder of an on-sale wine license who is
also the holder of an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license, whose gross receipts
are at least 60% attributable to the sale of food, may sell intoxicating malt
liquor without an additional on-sale intoxicating liquor license meeting the
qualifications of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 5, clause b, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   Subd. 4.   Special Club Licenses. Special club licenses shall be issued only
to incorporated clubs which have been in existence for 15 years or more or to
congressionally chartered veterans’ organizations which have been in existence
for ten years and shall permit the sale of intoxicating liquor only to members
and bonafide guests for consumption on the licensed premises only.
   Subd. 5.   Special Sunday Liquor License. Special license for Sunday sales
shall be issued only to establishments holding an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license, a wine license, or a brewpub license as provided by Subd. 2, 3, and 6.
The Sunday license shall be effective only if food is served in conjunction
with the service of alcoholic beverages and the establishment provides for
seating for a minimum of 30 guests. The permitted hours of sale shall be 8:00
a.m. to 12:00 a.m. A special license authorizing sales on Sunday may be issued
to a license holder of an on-sale brewer taproom license for the operation of a
taproom on Sundays in compliance with state law. The permitted hours of Sunday
on-sale shall be 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
   Subd. 6.   Brewpub License. Brewpub licenses shall be granted only to a
brewery licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6, clause (d), as it may be
amended from time to time. A brewpub license authorizes on-sale of intoxicating
liquor or 3.2% malt liquor for a restaurant operated in the place of
manufacture.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 12-11-2013)
§ 400.03 Application for License.
   Subd. 1.   Form. Every application for a license to sell liquor shall state
the name of the applicant, his or her age, representations as to his or her
character, with such references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, whether the applicant is owner and operator of the
business, how long he or she has been in that business at that place, and such
other information as the Council may require from time to time. In addition to
containing such information, the application shall be in the form prescribed by
the Department of Public Safety and shall be verified and filed with the City
Administrator. No person shall make a false statement in an application.
   Subd. 2.   Approval of Security. The security offered under Subd. 3 below
shall be approved by the City Council and in the case of applicants for “on-
sale wine” licenses by the State Department of Public Safety. Liability
insurance policies shall be approved as to form by the City Attorney. Operation
of a licensed business without having a file with the city at all times
effective security as required by Subd. 3 below shall be cause for revocation
or suspension of the license.
   Subd. 3.   Liability of Insurance. Prior to the issuance of a liquor
license, the applicant shall file with the City Administrator a liability
insurance policy in the minimum amount of $50,000 coverage for one person and
$100,000 coverage for more than one person and shall comply with the provisions
of M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, relating to
liability insurance policies.
§ 400.04 License Fees.
   Subd. 1.   Fees.
         1.   The annual fee for a liquor license shall be as set in the fee
schedule adopted from time to time by the Council.
         2.   The applicant shall pay an investigation fee as set in the fee
schedule from time to time by the Council.
   Subd. 2.   Payment. Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the Finance Director for payment in full of the license fee. All
fees shall be paid into the General Fund. If an application for a license is
rejected, the Finance Director shall refund the amount paid.
   Subd. 3.   Term, Pro Rata Fee. Each license shall be issued for a period of
one year except that if the application is made during the license year, a
license may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee, with
any unexpired fraction of a month being counted as one month. Every license
shall expire on the last day of March.
   Subd. 4.   Refunds. No refund of any fee shall be made except as authorized
by statute.
§ 400.05 Granting of Licenses.
   Subd. 1.   Investigation and Issuance. The City Council shall investigate
all facts set out in the application and as otherwise required by state law.
Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the
granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the Council
shall, in its discretion, grant or refuse the application. No license shall
become effective until it, together with the security furnished by the
applicant, has been approved by the Department of Public Safety or other
authority as required by state law or this Code.
   Subd. 2.   Person and Premises Licensed; Transfer. Each license shall be
issued only to the applicant and for the premises described in the application.
No license may be transferred to another person or place without City Council
approval. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee resulting in a change
in the controlling interest of a corporation, or a transfer of 51% or more of
the corporate stock shall be deemed a transfer of the license and such transfer
of stock without prior Council approval shall be a ground for revocation of the
license.
§ 400.06 Hours.
No establishment which has been issued an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
may be open or transact business between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
the following morning, Monday through Saturday, and between 1:00 a.m. to
midnight on Sunday unless a Sunday license has also been issued and except when
the Sunday is New Year’s Eve, in which case the establishment may be open or
transact business until 1:00 a.m. on the Monday following New Year’s Eve.
§ 400.07 Persons Ineligible for License.
No license shall be granted to any person made ineligible for a license by
state law. No license shall be issued to an individual who is not a resident of
the city or does not have a registered business address therein. No license
shall be granted to or held by any person who has, within five years prior to
the application for the license, been convicted of a felony, or of violating
any law of this state or local ordinance relating to the manufacture, sale,
distribution, or possession for sale or distribution of intoxicating liquors or
3.2% malt liquor and cannot show competent evidence under M.S. § 364.03, as it
may be amended from time to time, of sufficient rehabilitation and present
fitness to perform the duties of a licensee.
§ 400.08 Places Ineligible for License.
   Subd. 1.   General Prohibition. No license shall be issued for any place or
any business ineligible for a license under state law.
   Subd. 2.   Delinquent Taxes and Charges. No license shall be granted for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments, or other financial
claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
§ 400.09 Conditions of License.
   Subd. 1.   In General. Every license is subject to the conditions in the
following subdivisions and all other provisions of this section and of any
other applicable Code provision, ordinance, state law, or regulation.
   Subd. 2.   Licensee’s Responsibility. Every licensee is responsible for the
conduct of his or her place of business and the conditions of sobriety and
order in it. The act of any employee on the licensed premises authorized to
sell intoxicating liquor there shall be deemed the act of the licensee as well,
and the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this section and
the law equally with the employee.
   Subd. 3.   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health
officer, or properly designated officer or employee of the city to enter,
inspect, and search the premises of the licensee during business hours without
a warrant.
   Subd. 4.   Display During Prohibited Hours. No “on-sale” establishment shall
display liquor to the public during hours when the sale of liquor is
prohibited.
   Subd. 5.   Federal Stamps. No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale
liquor dealer’s special tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
   Subd. 6.   Sales to Minors or Intoxicated Persons. No intoxicating liquor
shall be sold or served to any intoxicated person or to any person under 21
years of age.
   Subd. 7.   Consumption by Minors. No person under 21 years of age shall be
permitted to consume intoxicating liquor on the licensed premises.
   Subd. 8.   Employment of Minors. No minor shall be employed on the premises
of an intoxicating liquor store except as authorized by state law.
   Subd. 9.   Gambling. No gambling or any gambling device shall be permitted
on any licensed premises, except as permitted by state law.
§ 400.10 Suspension and Revocation.
The Council may either suspend for not to exceed 60 days or revoke any liquor
license upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, regulation, or ordinance relating to intoxicating liquor.
No suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been
afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as
they may be amended from time to time.
§ 400.11 Restrictions on Purchase and Consumption.
No person shall consume liquor in a public park, on a public street, or in any
public place other than the dispensary or in an establishment where the
consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
§ 400.12 Regulation of Outdoor Areas in On-sale Liquor, Wine, and 3.2% Malt
Liquor Establishments.
The following regulations shall apply to all outdoor areas in on-sale liquor,
wine, and 3.2% malt liquor establishments.
         1.   Every outdoor area must be approved as part of the original
licensed premises or by the granting of an application for expansion fo the
licensed premises. Licensees must either hold an outdoor dining administrative
permit under subsection 1006.07, Subd. 1.15 or a temporary outdoor on-sale
events permit under subsection 1002.10, Subd. 3.8 to use any portion of outdoor
areas for alcohol sales or consumption.
         2.   Regardless of the class of license issued to an outdoor area, the
issuing authority may further restrict the days, hours, nature, volume, and
other aspects of the use of the outdoor area or portions of outdoor areas.
         3.   The issuing authority may require that access to and egress from
an outdoor area only be through the door connecting it to the remainder of the
premises.
         4.   The issuing authority may review the operation of any outdoor
area in connection with the violation of the terms and conditions of this
chapter shall be grounds for revocation, suspension, or refusal to renew the
on-sale license for that portion of the licensed premises pertaining to the
outside area.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 6-14-2023)
SECTION 410: MUNICIPAL LIQUOR DISPENSARY
§ 410.01 Provisions of State Law Adopted.
The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor in or by a municipal liquor dispensary are adopted and
made a part of this section as if set out in full.
§ 410.02 Dispensary Established.
There is hereby continued a municipal liquor dispensary for the off-sale of
intoxicating liquor. No liquor may be sold at retail elsewhere in the city or
by anyone not employed in the dispensary.
§ 410.03 Location and Operation.
   Subd. 1.   Location. The dispensary shall be located at such suitable place
in the city as the Council determines, but no premises upon which taxes,
assessments, or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
dispensary purposes.
   Subd. 2.   Manager. The dispensary shall be in the immediate charge of a
liquor store manager selected by the Council and paid the compensation as is
fixed by the Council. He or she shall furnish a surety bond to the
municipality, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her duties, in
such sum as the Council specifies. The bond premium shall be paid by the city.
The manager shall operate the dispensary under the Council’s direction and
shall perform any duties in connection with the dispensary as may be imposed
upon him or her by the Council. He or she shall be responsible to the Council
for the conduct of the dispensary in full compliance with this section and with
the laws relating to the sale of liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   Subd. 3.   Other Employees. The Council shall also appoint such additional
employees as may be required for the dispensary and shall fix their
compensation. All employees, including the manager, shall hold their positions
at the pleasure of the Council. In the discretion of the Council, the employees
may be required to furnish surety bonds conditioned for the faithful discharge
of their duties, in such suits as the Council may specify. The premium on the
bonds shall be paid by the city.
§ 410.04 Dispensary Funds.
   Subd. 1.   Fund Established. A Municipal Liquor Dispensary Fund is hereby
continued in which all revenues received from the operation of the dispensary
shall be deposited and from which all ordinary operating expenses shall be
paid. Any amounts it may be necessary to borrow from the General Fund of the
city for initial costs of rent, fixtures and stock or for operating expenses
shall be reimbursed to that fund out of the first available monies coming into
the Dispensary Fund thereafter. Surpluses accumulating in the dispensary fund
may be transferred to the General Fund or to any other appropriate fund of the
city by resolution of the Council and expanded for any municipal purpose.
   Subd. 2.   Receipts and Disbursements. The handling of municipal liquor
dispensary receipts and disbursements shall comply with the procedure
prescribed by law for the receipts and disbursements of the city funds
generally.
§ 410.05 Prohibited Business.
No business other than the sale of liquor shall be carried on in the dispensary
except the retail sale of cigars, cigarettes, all forms of tobacco, food, ice,
soft drinks, and 3.2% malt liquor.
§ 410.06 Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of all police officers of the city to enforce the
provisions of this section, to search premises and seize evidence of law
violation, and preserve the same as evidence against any person alleged to be
violating this section; and to prepare the necessary processes and papers
therefor.
SECTION 420: 3.2% MALT LIQUOR LICENSING
§ 420.01 Provisions of State Law Adopted.
The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
relating to the definition of terms, licensing, sales, consumption, conditions,
or bonds of licenses, hours of sales and all other matters pertaining to the
retail sale, distribution, and consumption of 3.2% malt liquor are hereby
adopted and made a part of this section as if set out in full.
§ 420.02 Definitions of Terms.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Liquor. As used in this section, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2 percent malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and
3.2% malt liquor.
Liquor Store. An establishment for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor, cigars,
cigarettes, all forms of tobacco, beverages, and soft drinks at retail.
Restaurant. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a “restaurant” as
defined by this subsection, an establishment shall have a license from the
state as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and
meet the definition of either a “small establishment,” “medium establishment,”
or “large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, subd. 3(d), as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served, shall not be considered to be a “restaurant” for purposes of
this chapter unless it meets the definitions of “small establishment”, “medium
establishment,” or “large establishment.”
§ 420.03 License Required.
   Subd. 1.   Licenses. No person, except wholesalers and manufacturers to the
extent authorized by law, shall deal in or dispose of by gift, sale, or
otherwise, or keep or offer for sale, any 3.2% malt liquor within the city
without first having received a license as provided in this section. Licenses
shall be of the following kinds:
         1.   Regular on-sale;
         2.   Temporary on-sale;
         3.   Off-sale;
         4.   Brewpubs;
         5.   Brewpub off-sale;
         6.   Taproom; and
         7.   Small brewer off-sale.
   Subd. 2.   Regular On-Sale. Regular on-sale licenses shall be granted only
to bona fide clubs, liquor stores, exclusive on-sale liquor stores, and
restaurants and hotels where food is prepared and served for consumption on the
premises. On-sale licenses shall permit the sale of 3.2% malt liquor for
consumption on the premises only.
   Subd. 3.   Temporary On-Sale. Temporary on-sale licenses shall be granted
only to bona fide clubs and charitable, religious, and non-profit organizations
for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor for consumption on the premises only.
   Subd. 4.   Off-Sale. Off-sale licenses shall permit the sale of 3.2% malt
liquor at retail, in the original container or package for consumption off the
premises only.
   Subd. 5.   Brewpub License. Brewpub licenses shall be granted only to a
brewery licensed under M.S. § 340A.24, as it may be amended from time to time.
A brewpub license authorizes on-sale of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor
for a restaurant operated in the place of manufacture.
   Subd. 6.   Brewpub Off-Sale 3.2% Malt Liquor License. A brewpub off-sale
3.2% malt liquor license may be issued, with the approval of the Commissioner,
to a brewer holding a brewpub license. A brewpub off-sale 3.2% malt liquor
license authorizes off-sale of malt liquor pursuant to the conditions imposed
by M.S. §§ 340A.24 and 340A.285, as they may be amended from time to time.
   Subd. 7.   Taproom License. Taproom licenses shall be granted only to a
brewery licensed under M.S. § 340A.26, as it may be amended from time to time,
for on-sale of 3.2% malt liquor produced by the brewer for consumption on the
premises of or adjacent to one brewery location owned by the brewer.
   Subd. 8.   Small Brewer Off-Sale License. A small brewer off-sale license,
with the approval of the Commissioner, may be issued to a brewer holding a
taproom license. A small brewer off-sale license authorizes off-sale of malt
liquor pursuant to the conditions imposed by M.S. §§ 340A.28 and 340A.285, as
they may be amended from time to time.
         1.   The holder of an off-sale small brewer license and a Sunday on-
sale taproom license is allowed to sell growlers and 750 ml bottles, produced
and packaged by the brewer, on Sundays, pursuant to M.S. § 340A.28 and
340A.285, as they may be amended from time to time. The permitted hours of
Sunday off-sale shall be 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
         2.   Brewer off-sale malt liquor licenses may also be issued, with
approval of the Commissioner, to a holder of a brewer’s license under M.S. §
340A.28 and 340A.285, as they may be amended from time to time, and meeting the
criteria established by M.S. § 340A.29, as it may be amended from time to time.
The amount of malt liquor sold at off-sale under this license may not exceed
128 ounces per customer per day. Off-sale of malt liquor shall be limited to
the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in the jurisdiction in
which the brewer is located, and the malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed
from the premises before the applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive
liquor stores. Packaging of malt liquor for off-sale under this license must
comply with the provisions of Minn. Rules parts 7515.1080 to 7515.1120, as they
may be amended from time to time.
§ 420.04 License Applications.
Every application for a license to sell 3.2% malt liquor shall be made to the
City Administrator on a form supplied by the city and containing such
information as the City Administrator or the City Council may require. It shall
be unlawful to make any false statement in an application.
§ 420.05 License Fees.
   Subd. 1.   Payment Required. Each application for a license shall be
accompanied by a receipt from the Finance Director for payment in full of the
required fee for the license. All fees shall be paid into the General Fund of
the city. Upon rejection of any application for a license, the Finance Director
shall refund the amount paid.
   Subd. 2.   Expiration; Pro Rata Fees. Every license except a temporary
license shall expire on the last day of March in each year. Each license except
a temporary license shall be issued for a period of one year, except that if a
portion of the license year has elapsed when the license is granted, the
license shall be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee. In
computing such fee, any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one
month. A temporary license shall be issued for a specific period in which a
special event to which the sale is incident is being held and such period shall
be stated on the license.
   Subd. 3.   Fees.
         1.   The annual fee for licenses issued under this section shall be as
set in the fee schedule adopted from time to time by the Council.
         2.   The applicant shall pay an investigation fee as set in the fee
schedule adopted from time to time by the Council.
   Subd. 4.   Refunds. No part of the fee paid for any license issued under
this section shall be refunded except in the following instances upon
application to the Council within ten days from the happening of the event.
There shall be refunded a pro rata portion of the fee for the unexpired period
of the license, computed on a monthly basis, when operation of the licensed
business ceases not less than one month before expiration of the license
because of:
         1.   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
         2.   The licensee’s illness;
         3.   The licensee’s death; or
         4.   A change in the legal status of the municipality making it
unlawful for the licensed business to continue.
§ 420.06 Granting of License.
   Subd. 1.   Investigation and Hearing. The City Council shall investigate all
facts set out in the application and as otherwise required by state law.
Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the
granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the Council shall
grant or refuse the application at its discretion.
   Subd. 2.   Transfers. Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and
shall not be transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only
for the premises described in the application. No license shall be transferred
to another place without the approval of the Council.
§ 420.07 Persons Ineligible for License.
No license shall be granted or held by any person who:
         1.   Is under 21 years of age;
         2.   Has, within five years prior to the application for the license,
been convicted of a felony, or of violating any law of this state or local
ordinance relating to the manufacture, sale, distribution, or possession for
sale or distribution of intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor and cannot
show competent evidence under M.S. § 364.03, as it may be amended from time to
time, of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties of
a 3.2% malt liquor license;
         3.   Is a manufacturer of 3.2% malt liquor or is interested in the
control of any place where 3.2% malt liquor is manufactured;
         4.   Is or, during the period of this license, becomes the holder of a
federal retail liquor dealer’s special tax stamp for the sale of intoxicating
liquor at any place unless there has also been issued to him or her a local
license to sell intoxicating liquor at such place; or
         5.   Is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the license
is issued.
§ 420.08 Places Ineligible for License.
   Subd. 1.   Conviction or Revocation. No license shall be granted for sale on
any premises where a licensee has been convicted of the violation of this
section, or of the state 3.2% malt liquor or liquor law, or where any license
hereunder has been revoked for cause until one year has elapsed after the
conviction or revocation.
   Subd. 2.   Six Months Prior Eligibility. No on-sale license shall be granted
for a business or club which has not been in regular operation and eligible to
receive a license for at least six months immediately preceding the application
for a license.
§ 420.09 Conditions of License.
   Subd. 1.   General Conditions. Every license shall be granted subject to the
conditions in the following subdivisions and all other provisions of this
section of the city or state law.
   Subd. 2.   Sales to Minors or Intoxicated Persons. No 3.2% malt liquor shall
be sold or served to any intoxicated person or to any person under 21 years of
age.
   Subd. 3.   Consumption by Minors. No person under 21 years of age shall be
permitted to consume 3.2% malt liquor on the licensed premises.
   Subd. 4.   Employment by Minors. No minor shall be employed on the premises
of a liquor store except as authorized by state law.
   Subd. 5.   Gambling. No unlawful gambling or any unlawful gambling device
shall be permitted on any licensed premises.
   Subd. 6.   Interest of Manufacturers or Wholesalers. No manufacturer or
wholesaler of 3.2% malt liquor shall have any ownership of or interest in an
establishment licensed to sell at retail contrary to the provisions of M.S.
Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. No retail licensee and
manufacturer or wholesaler of 3.2% malt liquor shall be party to any exclusive
purchase contract. No retail licensee shall receive any benefits contrary to
law from a manufacturer or wholesaler of 3.2% malt liquor, and no such
manufacturer or wholesaler of 3.2% malt liquor shall confer any benefits
contrary to law upon a retail licensee.
   Subd. 7.   Federal Liquor Dealers Stamp. No licensee shall sell 3.2% malt
liquor while holding or exhibiting in the licensed premises a federal retail
liquor dealer’s special tax stamp unless he or she is licensed under the laws
of the state to sell intoxicating liquors.
   Subd. 8.   Sales of Intoxicating Liquor. No licensee who is not also
licensed to sell intoxicating liquor and who does not hold a consumption or
display permit shall sell or permit the consumption and display of intoxicating
liquors on the licensed premises or serve any liquids for the purpose of mixing
with intoxicating liquor. The presence of intoxicating liquors on the premises
of such a licensee shall be prima facie evidence of possession of intoxicating
liquors for the purpose of sale; and the serving of any liquid for the purpose
of mixing with intoxicating liquors shall be prima facie evidence that
intoxicating liquor is being permitted to be consumed or displayed contrary to
this section.
   Subd. 9.   Searches and Seizures. Any peace officer may enter and inspect
the public areas of the premises of a licensee during business hours and may
seize all intoxicating liquors found on the licensed premises in violation of
Subd. 8 above.
   Subd. 10.   Licensee Responsibility. Every licensee shall be responsible for
the conduct of his or her place of business and shall maintain conditions of
sobriety and order. The act of any employee on the licensed premises authorized
to sell intoxicating liquor there shall be deemed the act of the licensee as
well, and the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this
section and the law equally with the employee.
   Subd. 11.   Banquet Rooms. A regular on-sale license shall entitle the
holder to serve 3.2% malt liquor in a separate room of the licensed premises
for banquets or dinners at which are present not fewer than ten persons.
§ 420.10 Closing Hours.
No sale of 3.2% malt liquor shall be made on any day of the week between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. or when otherwise prohibited by state law.
§ 420.11 Clubs.
No club shall sell 3.2% malt liquor except to members and to guests in the
company of members.
§ 420.12 Revocation.
The violation of any provision or condition of this section by a 3.2% malt
liquor licensee or his or her agent shall be grounds for revocation or
suspension of the license. The license of any person who holds a federal retail
liquor dealer’s special tax stamp without a license to sell intoxicating
liquors at such place shall be revoked without notice and without hearing. In
all other cases, a license granted under this section may be revoked or
suspended by the Council in accordance with the provisions of this Code.
SECTION 430: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS
§ 430.01 Minors.
   Subd. 1.   Age Misrepresentation. No minor shall misrepresent his or her age
for the purpose of obtaining any alcoholic beverage.
   Subd. 2.   Inducing Purchase. No person shall induce a minor to purchase or
procure any alcoholic beverage.
   Subd. 3.   Procurement. No person other than the parent or legal guardian
shall procure any alcoholic beverage for any minor.
   Subd. 4.   Possession. No minor shall have any alcoholic beverage in his or
her possession with the intent to consume it at a place other than the
household of his or her parent or guardian.
   Subd. 5.   Consumption. No minor shall consume any alcoholic beverage unless
in the company of his or her parent or guardian.
§ 430.02 Consumption Prohibited.
No alcoholic beverage shall be consumed in any theater, recreation hall or
center, ball park, or other place of public gathering used for the purpose of
entertainment, amusement or playing of games, unless properly licensed under
this chapter. City parks shall be exempt from the provisions of this
subsection.
§ 430.03 Liquor Consumption and Display.
No person shall consume or display any intoxicating liquor on the premises of a
licensee who is not also licensed to sell intoxicating liquors or who does not
hold a consumption and display permit as provided by state law.
§ 430.04 Nudity.
In order to prevent harm stemming from the physical immediacy and combination
of alcohol, nudity, and sex, and to prevent any subliminal endorsement of
sexual harassment or activities likely to lead to the possibility of various
criminal conduct such as prostitution, sexual assault, and disorderly conduct,
it shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person from being
upon a licensed premise when such person does not have his or her buttocks,
anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material. It shall
also be unlawful for any person to appear in a licensed establishment with such
stated anatomical areas uncovered or covered only by a transparent material.,
Offenses, and Other Regulations
CHAPTER 5: NUISANCES, OFFENSES, AND OTHER REGULATIONS
Section
      
500.   NUISANCES
      
505.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
510.   WEEDS AND GRASS
      
520.   TREES
      
525.   NOISE REGULATIONS
      
530.   USE OF WEAPONS
      
535.   HUNTING
      
540.   OPEN BURNING
      
550.   SIDEWALKS
      
560.   LAKE REGULATIONS
      
565.   ILLICIT DISCHARGE
      
570.   PARK REGULATIONS
      
580.   MINORS
      
590.   REFUSE
      
595.   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
      
596.   SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
      
597.   MISTREATMENT OF A POLICE CANINE
      
598.   TARGETED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING
Subsection
Section 500: Nuisances
   
500.01   Public Nuisance Defined
   
500.02   Public Nuisances Affecting Health
   
500.03   Public Nuisances Affecting Morals and Decency
   
500.04   Public Nuisances Affecting Peace and Safety
   
500.05   Nuisances Affecting Public Property
   
500.06   Trespassing on Private Property
   
500.07   Violation and Penalty
Section 505: Property Maintenance Code
   
505.01   Findings
   
505.02   Purpose
   
505.03   Definitions
   
505.04   Graffiti and Defacement of Property
   
505.05   Property Maintenance
Section 510: Weeds and Grass
   
510.01   Weeds Defined
   
510.02   A Nuisance
   
510.03   Notice to Remove
   
510.04   Removal by City
   
510.05   Cost Assessed
Section 520: Trees
   
520.01   Declaration of Policy
   
520.02   Setback and Other Regulations
   
520.03   Forester
   
520.04   Epidemic Disease Program
   
520.05   Nuisances
   
520.06   Inspection and Investigation
   
520.07   Abatement of Nuisance
   
520.08   Procedure for Removal of Infected Trees and Wood
   
520.09   Interference Prohibited
Section 525: Noise Regulations
   
525.01   General Prohibition
   
525.02   Horns, Audible Signaling Devices, and the Like
   
525.03   Exhaust
   
525.04   Defective Vehicles or Loads
   
525.05   Loading, Unloading, and Packing
   
525.06   Radios, Phonographs, and the Like
   
525.07   Noisy Parties or Gatherings
   
525.08   Loud Speakers, Amplifiers, and the Like
   
525.09   Animals
   
525.10   Schools, Churches, and the Like
   
525.11   Domestic Power Equipment
   
525.12   Refuse Hauling
   
525.13   Heavy Construction Activities
   
525.14   Light Construction Activities
   
525.15   Exception for Emergency Work
   
525.16   Exceptions for Approved Work
   
525.17   Enforcement Duties
   
525.18   Enforcement
Section 530: Use of Weapons
   
530.01   Restrictions
Section 535: Hunting
   
535.01   Hunting
Section 540: Open Burning
   
540.01   Yard Waste
   
540.02   Permits
   
540.03   Recreational Fires
Section 550: Sidewalks
   
550.01   Clean Walks Required
   
550.02   Failure to Clean Sidewalks
   
550.03   Assessment of Cost
Section 560: Lake Regulations
   
560.01   Public Nuisances Affecting Lakes or Other Bodies of Water
   
560.02   Speed
   
560.03   Public Lakeshore, Lakeshore Rights-of-Way and Docks
   
560.04   Use of Greenways
   
560.05   Exemption
   
560.06   Markings
   
560.07   Enforcement
   
560.08   Penalty
Section 565: Illicit Discharge
   
565.01   Statutory Authorization
   
565.02   Findings
   
565.03   Purpose
   
565.04   Definitions
   
565.05   Administration
   
565.06   Discharge to MS4 Prohibited
   
565.07   Enforcement Response Procedure (ERP)
Section 570: Park Regulations
   
570.01   Purpose
   
570.02   Definitions
   
570.03   General Conduct
   
570.04   Protection of Natural Resources and Wildlife
   
570.05   Camping
   
570.06   Swimming
   
570.07   Boating
   
570.08   Horseback Riding
   
570.09   Bicycling
   
570.10   Meetings, Speeches, Demonstrations, and Parades
   
570.11   Vehicles
   
570.12   Motorized Recreational Vehicle
   
570.13   Park Operation
   
570.14   Skate Park
   
570.15   Waiver
   
570.16   Enforcement and Penalties
   
570.17   Enforcement and Penalties (Parks Advisory Board)
Section 580: Minors
   
580.01   Curfew
   
580.02   Social Hosts
Section 590: Refuse
   
590.01   Definitions
   
590.02   Required Collection of Mixed Municipal Solid Waste
   
590.03   Storing of Refuse
   
590.04   Disposal Requirements
   
590.05   Penalty
Section 595: Drug Paraphernalia
   
595.01   Use of Possession Prohibited
   
595.02   Delivery or Manufacturing Prohibited
   
595.03   Drug Paraphernalia Definition
   
595.04   Drug Paraphernalia Guidelines
Section 596: Sexual Predator Residency Restrictions
   
596.01   Findings and Intent
   
596.02   Definitions
   
596.03   Residency Prohibitions; Penalties; Exception
Section 597: Mistreatment of a Police Canine
   
597.01   Mistreatment of a Police Canine
   
597.02   Penalty
Section 598: Targeted Residential Picketing
   
598.01   Purpose of Section
   
598.02   Definition
   
598.03   Prohibited Activity
   
598.04   Penalty
   
598.05   Severability
SECTION 500: NUISANCES
§ 500.01 Public Nuisance Defined.
Whoever, by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty, intentionally
does any of the following shall be guilty of maintaining a public nuisance,
which is a misdemeanor:
         1.   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys,
injures, or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort, or repose of any
considerable number of members of the public;
         2.   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
         3.   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or this
Code to be a public nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically
provided.
§ 500.02 Public Nuisances Affecting Health.
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
         1.   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
         2.   All diseased animals running at large;
         3.   All ponds or pools of stagnant water, except that city holding
ponds shall be exempt from this section;
         4.   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours
after death;
         5.   Accumulations of manure, refuse, or other debris;
         6.   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent free or
flytight or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit
foul or disagreeable odors;
         7.   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake,
canal or body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances;
         8.   All noxious weeds or other rank growths of vegetation upon public
or private property;
         9.   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities; and
         10.   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not
licensed by the City Board of Health as defined by law.
§ 500.03 Public Nuisances Affecting Morals and Decency.
The following shall hereby be declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
         1.   All gambling devices, slot machines, and punch boards in
violation of state law;
         2.   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in such occupations;
         3.   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous
sexual intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdy houses;
         4.   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed
of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, persons are permitted to
resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating
liquor is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all
liquor and other property used for maintaining such a place;
         5.   Whoever intentionally and without claim of right takes, uses,
transfers, conceals, or retains possession of movable property of another
without the other’s consent and with intent to deprive the owner permanently of
possession of the property shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; and
         6.   Whoever intentionally causes damage to physical property of
another without the latter’s consent shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 500.04 Public Nuisances Affecting Peace and Safety.
The following shall be declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
         1.   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after
the snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
         2.   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which
prevent persons from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an
intersection;
         3.   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of
a sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
         4.   All unnecessary noises and annoying vibrations;
         5.   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use by the
public of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds except under such
conditions as are permitted by this Code or other applicable law;
         6.   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
         7.   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or
any use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to
gather, obstructing traffic and the free uses of the streets or sidewalks;
         8.   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over
streets and sidewalks, or so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not
constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance;
         9.   The allowing of rain water, ice, or snow to fall from any
building or structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any
sidewalk;
         10.   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and
within three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
         11.   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so
situated or operated on private property as to attract the public;
         12.   No person shall discharge out of or permit to flow from his or
her premises, or any premises of which he or she may have control, any foul,
nauseous, or offensive liquid into any street, lane, alley, road, avenue, or
public ground, nor on any private ground owned or occupied by any other person;
         13.   The illicit discharges of pollutants, including, but not limited
to, sewage, industrial waste, or other wastes shall not be discharged from
either point or nonpoint sources into any public well or cistern, or waters of
the state, so as to cause any nuisance conditions, such as the presence of
significant amounts of floating solids, scum, visible oil film, excessive
suspended solids, material discoloration, obnoxious odors, gas ebullition,
deleterious sludge deposits, undesirable slimes or fungus growths, aquatic
habitat degradation, excessive growths of aquatic plants, or other offensive or
harmful effects. The city has adopted an enforcement response procedure
document that includes penalties for illicit discharges of pollutants which is
hereby referenced as part of this section;
         14.   No person shall construct a privy vault within the platted
portion of this municipality below the surface of the ground, but shall
construct it above the ground and subject to the approval of the Board of
Health. All privy vaults in use in this municipality shall be subject to the
approval of the Board, and the Board may order and compel the owner of privy
vaults in this municipality to make sewer connections when, in its judgement,
it would improve sanitary conditions to have such connections made;
         15.   No person shall encumber the streets, sidewalks, alleys, lanes,
or public grounds of this municipality with carriages, carts, wagons, sleighs,
or other vehicles or with boxes, lumber, firewood, posts, awnings, paper,
ashes, refuse, offal, dirt, garbage, stones, or other material or obstructions
of any kind;
         16.   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery,
household appliances, automobile bodies, or other material, in a manner
conductive to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or to fire,
health, or safety hazards from such accumulation or from the rank growth of
vegetation among the items so accumulated;
         17.   Any well, hole, or similar excavation which is left uncovered or
in such other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child coming on the
premises where it is located;
         18.   No person shall throw, deposit, place, leave, maintain, or keep
any stockpiled material, refuse, rubbish, garbage, lawn waste, or any discarded
or abandoned objects, articles, or accumulations, in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, storm drain, inlet, catch basin, conduit, or drainage structure,
business place, or upon any public or private plot of land, such that it might
inhibit proper storm water drainage or become a pollutant, except when in
containers, recycling bags, or other lawfully established waste disposal
receptacles for scheduled collection. Placement of such materials is an illicit
discharge and is subject to penalties as outlined in the city’s enforcement
response procedure document;
         19.   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
         20.   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or
an adjacent private property;
         21.   No person shall discharge any firearm; spit upon any sidewalk or
crosswalks; appear in public or any exposed place in a state of nudity or in
any indecent or lewd dress; unreasonably annoy, disturb, interfere with,
obstruct, or be offensive to others to a degree whereby a breach of peace may
be or is likely to be occasioned; fail or refuse to obey a police officer’s
lawful order; be guilty of any indecent or obscene acts or any lewd, indecent
or obscene conduct, language, or behavior; or be guilty of any other disorderly
act, language, or behavior; and
         22.   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury
to the person or property of anyone.
§ 500.05 Nuisances Affecting Public Property.
   Subd. 1.   Definition. Public buildings and property shall mean any
structures or areas owned and operated by any governmental unit for the conduct
of governmental functions, including, but not limited to, schools and
libraries, parks, playgrounds, streets, holding ponds, city, county, state, or
federal administrative offices; including similar facilities owned and operated
by private, but non-profit, religious, or charitable organizations.
   Subd. 2.   Trespass. It shall be unlawful for any person to remain in a
public building or upon the grounds thereof after being requested to leave the
premises by persons lawfully responsible for the control and maintenance
thereof, when the continued presence of any person shall injure or endanger the
safety of the buildings, or unreasonably interfere with the administration
thereof.
   Subd. 3.   Interference. It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully
harass, disrupt, interfere with, or obstruct any public or governmental
business or function being conducted within or upon the premises or grounds of
any public building.
   Subd. 4.   Damage. Any person who willfully or negligently acts or fails to
exercise due care any by that act damages any public property or building shall
be liable for the amount of damage caused.
§ 500.06 Trespassing on Private Property.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. To enable private owners of real property, situated
within the city and to which the public has some implicit right of access, to
exclude persons from that property where the person has committed a crime on
the premises or violated the property posted rules of conduct for the property.
   Subd. 2.   Definitions. For the purpose of this subsection, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
Common Areas. All areas of the property which are maintained for common use of
its tenants or the general public incidental to the conduct of the normal and
legitimate activities upon the premises, including, but not limited to, parking
lots and ramps, private roadways, reception areas, rotundas, waiting areas,
hallways, restroom facilities, elevators, escalators, and staircases.
Covered Premises. Any improved real property, or portion thereof, to which the
public has an implicit right of access, including, but not limited to, places
of worship, shopping malls, retail sales facilities, hotels, motels, nursing-
homes, restaurants, multiple-family residential buildings, residential
apartment complexes, hospitals, medical and dental offices, clubs, lodges,
office buildings, banks and financial institutions, transit stations, athletic
and recreational facilities, personal service establishments, theaters, and day
care facilities.
Property Manager. Any owner of a covered premises or the agent thereof who is
authorized to exercise control over the property, including common areas. The
term “property manager” includes any tenant who is an owner of the property or
agent of the owner and authorized to exercise control over the property,
including common areas.
Trespass Notice. A written notice which contains minimally the following
information:
         1.   A verbatim copy of Subd. 4 below;
         2.   The name, date of birth, and address of the person to whom the
notice is issued, to the extent this information is available and is provided
by that person, and the name of the person’s custodial parent or guardian when
that person is a juvenile;
         3.   A description of the specific conduct which serves as a basis for
the issuance of the notice;
         4.   A description of the specific property to which the trespass
notice applies;
         5.   The period during which the trespass notice is in effect,
including the date of its expiration;
         6.   The name, title, and telephone number of a person with authority
to modify, amend, or rescind the trespass notice prior to its normal
expiration; and
         7.   The method by which the trespass notice was served upon the
person to whom it was issued.
   Subd. 3.   When Trespass Notice May be Issued. A property manager or tenant
may issue a trespass notice as provided under this section only under the
following circumstances:
         1.   Where there is probable cause to believe that the person has
committed an act prohibited by state statute or city ordinance while on the
covered premises, whether in or on a common area or areas or in a tenant’s
space; or
         2.   Where there is probable cause to believe that the person has
violated the rules of conduct for the property which have been conspicuously
posted at all public entrances to the property or have been provided to the
person in writing by the property manager or tenant.
   Subd. 4.   Prohibited Conduct.
         1.   No person shall trespass in or upon any private property and,
without claim of right, refuse to depart therefrom on demand of the property
manager or tenant.
         2.   No person who has been served with a trespass notice in
conformity with this section shall enter the premises described therein during
its effective period without the written permission of the party issuing the
notice or the authorized agent thereof as specifically named in the notice.
Violation of the terms of the notice will result in criminal prosecution with
potential incarceration of up to 90 days in jail and a potential fine of up to
$700.
         3.   No person shall enter any area of private property in violation
of conspicuously posted signs prohibiting or restricting access thereto,
including, but not limited to, the following signs; “No Trespassing,”
“Authorized Personnel Only,” “Private,” “Employees Only,” or “Emergency Exit
Only.”
   Subd. 5.   Additional Provisions.
         1.   Where a trespass notice is issued by a tenant, who is not the
property manager, the notice is effective only as to that portion of the
premises over which the tenant is entitled to exercise control.
         2.   No trespass notice shall be effective for more than one year from
the date of its original issuance.
         3.   All trespass notices issued pursuant to this subsection must be
properly served upon the person named therein as follows:
            a.   Personal service documented by either a receipt signed by the
person to whom it was issued or an affidavit of the issuer; and
            b.   Where the person named in the trespass notice is arrested by a
police officer for an act prohibited by state statute or city ordinance, the
arresting officer may personally serve the notice on behalf of the property
manager or tenant and so document that fact in the officer’s official police
report detailing the incident.
   Subd. 6.   Penalty. A violation of Subd. 4 above shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor.
§ 500.07 Violation and Penalty.
Any violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Any person who does any of which is declared by the section to be a nuisance is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
SECTION 505: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 505.01 Findings.
The City Council finds there exist in the city numerous properties which are
substandard in maintenance. Such conditions adversely affect public health and
safety and lead to the continuation, extension, and aggravation of urban
blight. Adequate protection of public health, safety, and welfare therefore
requires the establishment and enforcement of minimum property maintenance
standards.
§ 505.02 Purpose.
The purpose of the Property Maintenance Code is to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare. Said Code establishes minimum property maintenance
standards for all properties within the city and provides for administration
and enforcement.
§ 505.03 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Graffiti. Any unauthorized inscription or markings, such as initials, words,
figures, designs, symbols, slogans, emblems, or drawings marked, scratched,
drawn, written, spray-painted, painted, pasted, etched, sketched, or otherwise
affixed to or on a sidewalk, wall, fence, building, sign, or any other
structure or surface.
Owner. The person who is the last owner of record or the fee owner or the
contract purchaser or the agent of the aforementioned person.
Professional. Whenever the words “professional state of maintenance and repair”
are used in this Code, they shall mean that such maintenance and repair shall
be made in a reasonably skillful manner.
§ 505.04 Graffiti and Defacement of Property.
   Subd. 1.   No person shall willfully or wantonly damage, mutilate, or deface
any exterior surface of any structure or building or public property by placing
thereon any marking, carving, or graffiti.
   Subd. 2.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said
surface to an approved professional state of maintenance and repair.
§ 505.05 Property Maintenance.
The owner of a property is responsible for ensuring that the property complies
with the following requirements.
   Subd. 1.   Stairs, Porches, and Decks. Every outside stairway attached to a
dwelling, every porch, every deck, and every appurtenance thereto shall be so
constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting the load that normal
use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall be kept in a professional state
of maintenance and repair. Normal use live load shall be the uniform load as
set out in the State Building Code.
   Subd. 2.   Guardrails and Handrails. Every outside handrail and outside
guardrail shall be firmly fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed
loads and shall be maintained in good condition.
   Subd. 3.   Foundations, Roofs, Exterior Walls, and Surfaces.
         1.   All exterior surfaces shall be of a material manufactured or
processed specifically for use in such a weather-exposed location, including
redwood and other naturally suitable materials, and every exterior wall,
chimney, foundation, and roof shall be reasonably weathertight, watertight, and
rodentproof; and shall be kept in a professional state of maintenance and
repair. Exterior walls shall be maintained and kept free from dilapidation by
cracks, tears or breaks or from deteriorated plaster, stucco, brick, wood, or
other material that is extensive and gives evidence of long neglect.
         2.   The protective surface on exterior walls of a building above
ground level shall be maintained in good repair so as to provide a sufficient
covering and protection of the structural surface underneath against its
deterioration.
   Subd. 4.   Windows, Exterior Doors, and Hatchways. Every window, exterior
door, and basement hatchway shall be reasonably weathertight, watertight, and
rodentproof; and shall be kept in a professional state of maintenance and
repair.
   Subd. 5.   Fences and Retaining Walls. Every fence and retaining wall shall
be kept well mended and in good repair, consistent with the design thereof.
SECTION 510: WEEDS AND GRASS
§ 510.01 Weeds Defined.
“Weeds,” as used in this section, shall mean not only such noxious weeds as are
enumerated by the State Noxious Weed Law, M.S. §§ 18.75 et. seq., and acts
amendatory thereto, but also such useless and troublesome plants as are
commonly known as weeds to the general public. Weeds shall also be construed to
mean all rank vegetable growth which exhales unpleasant or noxious odors, and
also high rank vegetable growth that may conceal filthy deposits.
§ 510.02 A Nuisance.
Any weeds or grass growing upon any lot or parcel of land, including the lands
between the curb line of the street or alley and the property line of private
properties to a height greater than one foot, or which are about to go to seed,
are hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the health, safety, and
good order of the city; excluding storm sewer holding ponds, storm sewer
drainage areas, surface water drainage areas, wet lands, shoreline vegetation,
nature preserve, and other unplatted property.
§ 510.03 Notice to Remove.
When any conditions exist on any lot or parcel of land in the city in violation
of the provisions of subsection 510.02, the City Administrator or person
assigned shall serve a notice on the owner or occupant of the lot or parcel of
land, ordering the owner or agent to have the weeds or grass cut and removed
within seven days after the service of the notice, or to appeal to the City
Council for a determination that the condition does not violate this section.
Such notice shall also state that in case of non-compliance, the cutting and
removal will be done by the city or its authorized contractor at the owner’s
expense. The owner of the property will be determined as shown by the records
of the office of the County Recorder. When the premises shall appear to be
vacant and unoccupied or when the owner or occupant cannot be found, then
notice may be served by posting upon the premises in a conspicuous place. For
the second or successive violations concerning grass, weeds, and other
vegetation in a calendar year, the city will post a notice of violation on the
property stating that if the violation is not corrected within 48 hours after
such posting, the city or it’s authorized contractor will, without further
notice, correct the conditions creating such violations and assess the cost
therefor against the property.
§ 510.04 Removal by City.
Upon the failure of the owner, occupant, or agent to comply with the provisions
of the notice, and after the expiration of seven days, the city or its
authorized contractor shall cut and remove or have cut and removed the weeds
and grass, and determine the cost of the cutting and removal, including
administrative costs, and bill the owner of the premises for that amount.
§ 510.05 Cost Assessed.
The listed total of unpaid charges for the cutting and removal of growth of
long grass or weeds on private property or outside of the traveled portion of
public streets, shall be charged along with all other charges for current
services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time. If no objection is made or if the Council shall find that the work was
properly done, then the amount of the cost shall be reported to the County
Auditor as in the case of other special assessments, and the Auditor shall
cause the cost to be assessed, levied, and collected in one payment, provided
that, within 30 days after the Commissioner’s report is made to the City
Council, the amount of the cost may be paid to the city.
SECTION 520: TREES
§ 520.01 Declaration of Policy.
The City Council hereby determines that the health of the elm and oak trees
within the municipal limits is threatened by fatal diseases known as Dutch elm
and oak wilt diseases, and other trees may be threatened by other epidemic
diseases of shade trees. It further determines that the loss of elm, oak, and
other trees growing upon public and private property would substantially
depreciate the value of property within the city and impair the safety, food
order, general welfare, and convenience of the public. It shall be the
intention of the Council to control and prevent the spread of those diseases,
and this section shall be enacted for that purpose.
§ 520.02 Setback and Other Regulations.
In all new subdivisions, street and yard trees shall be planted three to five
feet inside the property line and not in the “boulevard.” The setback
provisions shall not apply to tree plantings on city parkways or streets where
the City Council may permit the planting of trees in landscaped median or
boulevard areas. No tree shall be planted within 30 feet of the intersection of
curb lines on corner lots. No trees shall be planted or set out on any
different line than as above designated on the public streets or highways of
the city. The Public Works Department shall have the power in their discretion
to cause the removal of all trees hereafter planted in violation of this
section. The city shall not be responsible for the destruction of any private
improvements located within the setback.
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 1-28-2004)
§ 520.03 Forester.
   Subd. 1.   Position Created. The powers and duties of the City Forester as
set forth in this section shall be conferred upon the Director of Public Works,
Engineer, Park Superintendent, and the like, as designated by the Council.
   Subd. 2.   Duties of Forester. It shall be the duty of the Forester to
coordinate, under the direction and control of the Council, all activities of
the municipality relating to the control and prevention of Dutch elm disease
and oak wilt disease and other epidemic diseases of shade trees. He or she
shall recommend to the Council the details of a program for the control of the
disease; and perform the duties incidental to such a program adopted by the
Council.
§ 520.04 Epidemic Disease Program.
It shall be the intention of the Council to conduct a program of plant pest
control pursuant to all the powers of this city including the authority granted
by M.S. § 18G.13, as it may be amended from time to time. This program shall be
concentrated on, but not limited to, the control and elimination of Dutch elm
disease fungus, elm bark beetles, and the oak wilt fungus and is undertaken at
the recommendation of the Commissioner of Agriculture. The Forester shall act
as coordinator between the Commissioner of Agriculture and the Council in the
conduct of this program.
§ 520.05 Nuisances.
   Subd. 1.   Trees Constituting Nuisances. The following are public nuisances
whenever they may be found within the city:
         1.   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch elm disease fungus ceratocystis ulmi (buisman) moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles scolytus multistriatus (eichh.) or
hylungopinus rufipes (marsh);
         2.   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including legs, branches,
stumps, firewood, or other elm material from which the bark has not been
removed and burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
         3.   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the oak wilt fungus ceratocystis fagacearum;
         4.   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
Forester constitutes a hazard, including, but not limited to, logs, branches,
stumps, roots, firewood, or other oak material, which has not been stripped of
its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide;
         5.   Any other shade trees with an epidemic disease; and
         6.   Any dead or dying tree, or any part of such a tree, that is
endangering the safety and welfare of the public, or which poses a serious
threat of damage to property.
   Subd. 2.   Abatement. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance as defined in Subd. 1 above to remain on any premises owned or
controlled by him or her within the city. The nuisances may be abated in the
manner prescribed by this section.
§ 520.06 Inspection and Investigation.
   Subd. 1.   Annual Inspection. As often as practicable, the Forester shall
inspect all public and private premises within the city which might harbor any
plant pest as defined in M.S. § 18G.02, subd. 24, as it may be amended from
time to time, or this Code to determine whether any condition described in this
section exits thereon. He or she shall investigate all reported incidents of
infestation by Dutch elm fungus, elm bark beetles, oak wilt fungus, or any
other epidemic disease of shade trees.
   Subd. 2.   Entry on Private Premises. The Forester or his or her duly
authorized agents may enter upon private premises at any reasonable time for
the purpose of carrying out any of the duties assigned him or her under this
section.
   Subd. 3.   Diagnosis. The forester shall, upon finding conditions indicating
Dutch elm, oak wilt, or other infestation, immediately send appropriate
specimens or samples to the Commissioner of Agriculture for analysis, or take
such other steps for diagnosis as may be recommended by the Commissioner.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, no action to remove infected
trees or wood shall be taken until positive diagnosis of the disease has been
made.
§ 520.07 Abatement of Nuisance.
In abating a nuisance defined in this section, the Forester shall cause the
infected tree or wood to be sprayed, removed, burned, or otherwise effectively
treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the spread of
epidemic diseases including Dutch elm disease and oak wilt disease. He or she
shall also take such steps as are necessary to prevent root graft transmission
of the diseases. The abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance
with current technical and expert opinions and plans as may be designated by
the Commissioner of Agriculture.
§ 520.08 Procedure for Removal of Infected Trees and Wood.
   Subd. 1.   Action by Forester. Whenever the Forester finds with reasonable
certainty that the infestation defined in this section exists in any tree or
wood in any public or private place in the city, he or she shall proceed as
follows.
         1.   If the Forester finds that the danger of infestation of other
elm, oak, or other trees is not imminent because of the dormancy of the
infected trees he or she shall make a written report of his or her finding to
the Council, which shall proceed by:
            a.   Abating the nuisance as a public improvement under M.S.
Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time; or
            b.   Abating the nuisance as provided in Subd. 2 below.
         2.   If the Forester finds that danger of infestation of other elm,
oak, or other trees is imminent, he or she shall notify the abutting property
owner by certified mail that the nuisance shall be abated within a specified
time, not less than 14 days from the date of mailing of the notice. The
Forester shall immediately report the action to the Council, and after the
expiration of the time limit in the notice, he or she may abate the nuisance.
   Subd. 2.   Action by Council. Upon receipt of the Forester’s report required
by Subd. 1.2 above, the Council shall, by resolution, order the nuisance
abated. Before action is taken on the resolution, the Council shall publish
notice of its intention to meet to consider taking action to abate the
nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to affected property owners and published
once no less than one week prior to the meeting. The notice shall state the
time and place of the meeting, the streets affected, action proposed, the
estimated cost of the abatement, and the proposed basis of assessment, if any,
of costs. At the hearing or adjournment thereof, the Council shall hear
property owners with reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed
project. The Council shall thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the
original resolution with the modifications as it considers desirable and
provide for the doing of the work by day labor or by contract.
   Subd. 3.   Record. The Forester shall keep a record of the costs of
abatements done under this section and shall report monthly to the City
Administrator all work done for which assessments are to be made stating and
certifying the description of the land, lots, parcels involved, and the amount
chargeable to each.
   Subd. 4.   Assessment. On or before November 30 of each year, the
Administrator shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against
each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this section.
The Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof against the
property involved as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to
the county auditor and collection the following year along with current taxes.
§ 520.09 Interference Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
Forester or his or her agents while they are engaged in the performance of
duties imposed by this section.
SECTION 525: NOISE REGULATIONS
§ 525.01 General Prohibition.
   Subd. 1.   It is unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any
distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort’s repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare
of any persons or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their
property value.
   Subd. 2.   This general prohibition is not limited by the specific
restrictions of the subdivisions below.
   Subd. 3.   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, as
it may be amended from time to time, which are hereby incorporated by reference
into this code, are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and safety.
§ 525.02 Horns, Audible Signaling Devices, and the Like.
It is unlawful for any person to sound any signaling device on any vehicle,
except as a warning of danger. The only exceptions are allowable uses as
allowed by special permits or conditional uses as may be approved by the City
Council.
§ 525.03 Exhaust.
It is unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust, or permit the discharge
of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine,
motor boat, motor vehicle, or snowmobile, except through a muffler or other
device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises therefrom and
complies with all applicable state laws and regulations.
§ 525.04 Defective Vehicles or Loads.
It is unlawful for any person to use any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded
as to create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise.
§ 525.05 Loading, Unloading, and Packing.
It is unlawful for any person to create loud and excessive noise in loading,
unloading, or unpacking any vehicle.
§ 525.06 Radios, Phonographs, and the Like.
   Subd. 1.   It is unlawful for any person to use or operate or permit the use
or operation of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging
system, machine, or other device for the production or reproduction of sound in
a distinctly and loudly audible manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and
comfort of any person nearby. Operation of any such set, instrument,
phonograph, machine, or other device between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. in a manner as to be plainly audible at the property line of the structure
or building in which it is located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent or at
a distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a structure or building
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   Subd. 2.   The only exceptions are allowable uses as allowed by special
permits or conditional uses as may be approved by the City Council.
§ 525.07 Noisy Parties or Gatherings.
It is unlawful for any person to participate in any party or gathering of
people giving rise to noise, disturbing the peace, quiet or repose of another
person. When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating such a
noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than the
owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disperse
immediately. No person shall refuse after being ordered by a police officer to
do so. Every owner or tenant of the premises who has knowledge of the
disturbance shall make every effort to see that the disturbance is stopped. The
only exceptions are allowable uses as may be approved by the City Council.
§ 525.08 Loud Speakers, Amplifiers, and the Like.
It is unlawful for any person to operate or permit the use or operation of any
loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other device for the production or
reproduction of sound on a street or other public place for the purpose of
commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any
commercial establishment or vehicle.
§ 525.09 Animals.
   Subd. 1.   It is unlawful for any person to keep any animal that disturbs
the comfort or repose of persons in the vicinity by its frequent or continued
noise.
   Subd. 2.   For purposes of this section, “disturbs the comfort or repose of
persons in the vicinity by its frequent or continued noise” means any of the
following:
         1.   The animal noise occurs at a time between 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
and can be heard from a location outside the building and premises where the
animal is being kept and the animal has made the noises intermittently for more
than three minutes with one minute or less lapse of time between each animal
noise during the three-minute period;
         2.   The animal noise can be heard from a one-block distance from the
location of the building and premises where the animal is being kept and the
animal has made the noises intermittently for more than three minutes with one
minute or less lapse of time between each animal noise during the three-minute
period; or
         3.   The animal noise can be heard from a location outside the
building and premises where the animal is being kept and the animal has made
the noise intermittently for a period of at least five minutes with one-minute
or less lapse of time between each animal noise during the five-minute period.
§ 525.10 Schools, Churches, and the Like.
It is unlawful for any person to create any excessive noise on a street, alley,
or public grounds adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church, or
hospital when the noise unreasonably interferes with the working of the
institution or disturbs or unduly annoys its occupants or residents and when
conspicuous signs indicate the presence of the institution.
§ 525.11 Domestic Power Equipment.
It is unlawful for any person to operate a power lawn mower, power hedge
clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or other similar
domestic power maintenance equipment, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekday and Saturday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:
00 p.m. on any Sunday or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision when initiated within 12 hours of the completion of the most recent
snowfall.
§ 525.12 Refuse Hauling.
It is unlawful for any person to collect or remove garbage or refuse in any
residential district, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekday or between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on any weekend or
holiday.
§ 525.13 Heavy Construction Activities.
It is unlawful for any person to use tools powered by air compressors,
including, but not limited to, jackhammers, impact wrenches, or the use of any
kind of diesel or gas powered machine for construction activities except
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Saturday.
§ 525.14 Light Construction Activities.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in or permit construction activities
involving the use of hand-held tools, including, but not limited to, tools such
as hammers, saws, wrecking bars, or electrically powered tools including, but
not limited to, skill saws, drills, or sanders except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any weekday and Saturday or between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on any Sunday or holiday.
§ 525.15 Exception for Emergency Work.
Operations and acts performed exclusively for emergency work to preserve the
safety, welfare, or public health of the citizens of the city or for emergency
work necessary to restore public service or to eliminate a public hazard shall
be exempt from the provisions of this chapter. Persons having performed
emergency work under this section shall inform the Police Department at the
time of the need to initiate the work or if during non-business hours of the
city offices than upon resumption of business hours of the city. Any person
responsible for the emergency work shall take all reasonable actions to
minimize the amount of noise pollution or vibration.
§ 525.16 Exceptions for Approved Work.
Upon timely application being made and the necessity therefor being
established, the Council may suspend the operation of this section for a
specific purpose at a specific location and for a specific length of time by
Council action and by giving public notice of the nature and limits of the
suspension. The City Engineer may also authorize an exception for dewatering,
mass grading, road construction, and other activities for Council approved
projects.
§ 525.17 Enforcement Duties.
The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this section. The Police
Department may inspect private residences and shall make all reasonable efforts
to prevent violations of this section.
§ 525.18 Enforcement.
This section may be enforced by criminal action, injunction, abatement, or
other appropriate remedy.
SECTION 530: USE OF WEAPONS
§ 530.01 Restrictions.
   Subd. 1.   Firearm Discharge and Carry. With the exception of Subd. 5 below,
no person except a police officer in the performance of duty shall, within the
city, discharge any gun, pistol, or firearm of any description, or carry any
such weapon unless it is dismounted or broken apart or carried in a case in
such a manner that it cannot be discharged. This Subd. 1 does not prevent the
carrying of a handgun within the city under a permit subject to the
restrictions imposed by law.
   Subd. 2.   Pointing of Guns Prohibited. No person shall, within the city,
aim or point any firearm, air gun, or BB gun, of any kind, whether loaded or
not, at or towards another human being, except it being in defense of person or
persons or property against one committing or attempting to commit a felony.
   Subd. 3.   Air Rifles, Sling Shots, Wrist Rockets, BB Guns, Air Guns, and
Paint Ball Guns. With the exception of Subd. 5 below, no person shall use or
discharge any air rifle, sling shot, wrist rocket, BB gun, air gun, or paint
ball gun within the city.
   Subd. 4.   Offense by Parents, Guardians. It shall be unlawful for any
parent or guardian of any person under the age of 18 years knowingly to permit
the person to violate any provision of this section.
   Subd. 5.   Hunting on Privately Owned Property. Discharge of a firearm for
the purpose of hunting may be permitted on privately owned property, providing
the following conditions are satisfied. A person requesting permission to
discharge a firearm under this subdivision must be either the landowner or
possess current written permission from the landowner. Discharge of a firearm
may not take place within 500 feet of any building, structure, platted area,
public park, public trail, or public/private school. A request to hunt in
accordance with this subdivision must be submitted on the designated
application form which may be approved by the Chief of Police or his or her
designee if it is determined the discharge of a firearm can be undertaken in a
safe manner. Granted requests require that the hunter(s) be issued a special
permit which shall be in possession at all times while hunting on the permitted
property. The hunting permit may be revoked at any time by the Chief of Police
if it is determined a violation of this section has occurred, or the land owner
has rescinded permission. All applicable state statutes and regulations shall
apply to hunting within city limits in accordance with this subdivision.
   Subd. 6.   Use of Bow and Arrow. It is unlawful for any person to shoot a
bow and arrow or other similar device, including a crossbow, within the city
limits except in a physical education program in a school supervised by a
member of its faculty, a community-wide supervised class or event specifically
authorized by the Chief of Police, or a bow and arrow range authorized by the
City Council.
(Ord. 2015-12, passed 12-9-2015; Ord. 2024-07, passed 5-22-2024)
SECTION 535: HUNTING
§ 535.01 Hunting.
   Subd. 1.   No person shall, within the city, hunt any animal species by any
method, such as rifle, shotgun, handgun, bow and arrows, BB gun, air gun, or
slingshot.
   Subd. 2.   There shall exist within this section an exception for:
         1.   Animal control officers, police, and Sheriff Deputies in the
performance of their duties; and
         2.   Exceptions shall also be recognized in accordance with subsection
530.01, Subd. 4.
SECTION 540: OPEN BURNING
§ 540.01 Yard Waste.
The burning of dried leaves and other yard waste is hereby prohibited within
the city.
§ 540.02 Permits.
Special burning permits shall be allowed only for practice fires of the City
Fire Department. Permits shall be issued by the Fire Chief only and shall meet
all requirements of state law.
§ 540.03 Recreational Fires.
Recreational fires shall be permitted without a permit but must follow the
guidelines set forth by the State Department of Natural Resources.
   Subd. 1.   Definition. For the purpose of this section, a “recreational
fire” shall mean any fire set for cooking, warming, or ceremonial purposes,
which is not more than three feet in diameter by three feet high, and has had
the ground five feet from the base of the fire cleared of all combustible
material.
   Subd. 2.   Requirements. When a campfire is used for recreational purposes,
it must:
         1.   Be ignited with an approved starter fluid using dry, clean wood;
         2.   Produce little detectable smoke, odor, or soot beyond the
property line;
         3.   Be conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times;
         4.   Be extinguished completely before quitting the occasion; and
         5.   Be respectful of weather conditions, neighbors, burning bans, and
air quality.
SECTION 550: SIDEWALKS
§ 550.01 Clean Walks Required.
Within 24 hours after the completion of any snowfall, the owner or occupant of
any premises in the city shall completely clear the snow and loose or melting
ice from the sidewalk in front of and/or beside the premises. The owner or
occupant must also maintain clearance of the sidewalk in front of and/or beside
the premises thereafter.
§ 550.02 Failure to Clean Sidewalks.
   Subd. 1.   Whenever the owner or occupant of any premises in the city fails
to clear their sidewalk of snow and loose or melting ice within 24 hours after
the completion of any snowfall, or fails to maintain the clearance of their
sidewalk thereafter, the city or its authorized contractor shall serve a notice
on the owner or occupant of the lot or parcel of land, clear the sidewalk, and
bill the property owner for all costs. Such notice shall state that in case of
further non-compliance, the clearing of sidewalks will be done by the city or
its authorized contractor at the owner’s expense. The owner of the property
will be determined as shown by the records of the office of the County
Recorder. When the premises shall appear to be vacant and unoccupied or when
the owner or occupant cannot be found, then notice may be served by posting
upon the premises in a conspicuous place.
   Subd. 2.   For each successive violation concerning clearing of snow and
loose or melting ice from sidewalks, the city will post a notice of violation
on the property stating that the city or its authorized contractor will,
without further notice, correct the conditions creating such violations and
assess the cost there for against the property. The City Council shall
determine an hourly rate for clearing of sidewalks.
§ 550.03 Assessment of Cost.
If the bill is not paid to the City Administrator within 30 days from the date
issued, the listed total of unpaid charges for the clearing of snow and loose
or melting ice from public sidewalks shall be charged along with all other
charges for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be
amended from time to time. If no objection is made or if the Council shall find
that the work was properly done, then the amount of the cost shall be reported
to the County Auditor as in the case of other special assessments, and the
Auditor shall cause the cost to be assessed, levied and collected in one
payment, provided, that within 30 days after the Commissioner’s report is made
to the City Council, the amount of the cost may be paid to the city.
SECTION 560: LAKE REGULATIONS
§ 560.01 Public Nuisances Affecting Lakes or Other Bodies of Water.
The following shall be declared to be public nuisances affecting the waters of
any lake or other body of water within the limits of the city:
         1.   Interfering with, obstructing, or tending to obstruct a body of
water within the limits of the city. Rendering dangerous for passage or for use
a body of water within the limits of the city;
         2.   Depositing of sewage in public waters within the limits of the
city;
         3.   Depositing of refuse, waste, other deleterious, poisonous, or
injurious substances within the waters of this city; provided, however, that
weed control measures shall not be prohibited when carried out pursuant to a
permit issued by an authorize governmental agency. One copy of the permit shall
be on file at the office of the City Administrator prior to beginning work
authorized within the permit;
         4.   The failure to equip and to operate a boat, vessel or watercraft
in accordance with the provisions of M.S. Chapter 86B, as it may be amended
from time to time, which statutes are hereby adopted and incorporated herein;
provided however, that these additional requirements shall be met by all owners
and operators of watercraft within the waters described herein, namely:
            a.   All watercraft in use or under way between sunset and sunrise
shall be equipped with and have in operation red and green running lights in
the forward section of the boat, and a white light at the stern or on the
superstructure, which white light shall be visible on a dark night with clear
atmosphere for a distance of two miles from any direction. Provided, however,
that motor powered watercraft under 16 feet in overall length may use portable
lights, which shall be clamped on the watercraft when in use; and non-powered
watercraft may use a portable single white light which shall be visible from
any direction for a distance of two miles on a dark night with clear
atmosphere;
            b.   All watercraft, when at anchor or drifting, shall show a white
light visible from any direction for a distance of one mile, and the light
shall be lit from sunset to sunrise, except that a watercraft anchored in a
cove within 100 feet of shore and 200 feet away from normal navigation, and any
watercraft anchored at a dock or pier, need not have the white light;
            c.   All watercraft when in use shall have on board and readily
accessible life preservers, vests, or other similar buoyant devices capable of
keeping every person on board afloat;
            d.   No watercraft other than an authorized Water Patrol Boat or
other police watercraft shall use or display a police, sheriff, or law
enforcement officers’ flag, or any device designed to simulate such a flag;
            e.   No person shall board, use, damage, or tamper with a
watercraft, except when done by the owner or with the owner’s consent;
            f.   No person under 15 years of age shall operate a watercraft
powered by a motor of ten horse power or more, unless accompanied by a
competent person 15 years of age or older; and
            g.   No watercraft shall cause a wake to be created after sunset on
any day of the week.
         5.   Water skiing or surfboarding within 100 feet of an occupied
craft, public or private dock, and careless or reckless act on water skis or a
surfboard except during the takeoff or the landing of a skier. No water skiing
shall be allowed before sunrise or after sunset on any day of the week. For the
purposes of this subdivision, both the person or persons operating the
watercraft and the person or persons being towed shall be deemed equally guilty
if convicted of a violation hereof;
         6.   The overtaking or passing of any craft in a channel or narrow
passage by the operator of any motor boat, speed boat, or of any vessel under
power, so as to endanger other craft; and all craft shall proceed through all
channels and narrow passage of water at no wake speeds;
         7.   Obstructing or interfering with the passage of a boat or vessel
through a channel or narrow water passageway;
         8.   Operating a boat or vessel in a careless or reckless manner, in
or about a public swimming beach or within 100 feet of a private or public
dock, except for the purpose of launching, docking, or removing the boat or
vessel from the water; and
         9.   Swimming in a channel, or jumping or diving from a channel
bridge.
§ 560.02 Speed.
   Subd. 1.   Scope. This subsection shall apply to the bodies of water in the
city known as Lake Mitchell and Big Lake.
   Subd. 2.   Direction. All watercraft exceeding a slow-no wake speed shall
travel in a counter- clockwise direction.
   Subd. 3.   Speed.
         1.   The maximum speed limit of watercraft shall be 40 mph at all
times except with the exception of those areas and times listed in items 2 and
3 below.
         2.   Maximum speed limit of watercraft shall be 15 mph sunset to
sunrise all year.
         3.   A slow-no wake speed shall be maintained in the area extending
150 feet from the shore. Watercraft launching or landing water skiers by the
most direct route to open water shall be exempt from this provision.
   Subd. 4.   Violation. Any watercraft operator who violates any provision of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   Subd. 5.   Definition. For the purpose of this subsection, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
Slow-no Wake. Operation of a watercraft at the slowest possible speed necessary
to maintain steerage and in no case greater than five mph.
   Subd. 6.   Enforcement. Primary enforcement of this section shall rest with
the County Sheriff’s office.
   Subd. 7.   Posting Regulations. The city shall be responsible for marking
the public accesses and lakes with signs and buoys explaining the rules and
regulations of this section.
§ 560.03 Public Lakeshore, Lakeshore Rights-of-Way and Docks.
   Subd. 1.   Definitions. For the purpose of this subsection, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
Dock. Any wharf, pier, boat ramp, boat slip, or other structure constructed or
maintained in, upon, or into the water of a lake from either public property or
public rights-of-way.
Dock Accessories. All structures and materials used in conjunction with a dock,
including, but not limited to, boat lifts, buoys, fences, or other obstructions
and permanent or semi-permanent steps, ramps, or other structures leading to
the shoreline.
Dock Site. The property designated in the license issued pursuant to this
section and as designated on the dock location map to be maintained by the
city.
Public Property or Public Rights-of-Way. All publicly owned property and all
public rights-of-way that are immediately adjacent to a lakeshore, as
designated on the dock location map to be maintained at all times by the city
pursuant to this section.
   Subd. 2.   License Required. No person shall erect, place, keep, or maintain
a dock or other structure from public property or public rights-of-way without
a dock license.
   Subd. 3.   Applications.
         1.   Applications for dock licenses shall contain the following
information and such other information as the Council deems necessary:
            a.   Full name of applicant;
            b.   Address;
            c.   Preferred dock location on the dock location map and dock
specifications; and
            d.   Boat license number of any boats to be moored at the dock.
         2.   An application fee shall be set by the City Council and shall be
paid with the application. The application fee shall be refunded if the
applicant is not awarded a dock license.
   Subd. 4.   Eligible Applicants. All owners of property within the city whose
primary residence parcel is located within 750 feet of any dock site are
eligible to apply for a dock license for said site or sites. Only one
individual per household may apply for a dock license and only one license
shall be issued per parcel.
   Subd. 5.   Shared Docks. All parties that have an existing shared dock
license may renew the license. The dock site license agreement must be signed
by each of the property owners. In the event that one of the parties fails to
renew or otherwise abandons the dock license, the remaining licensee shall have
the opportunity to assume the license for that dock site.
   Subd. 6.   Application Approval and Denial. The Dock Administrator shall
approve or deny all applications. No application shall be approved if there are
any outstanding non-compliance orders against the applicant or if the proposed
dock will not comply with all terms of the City Code.
         1.   Vacant Dock Sites. A vacant dock site shall be awarded according
to the following rules.
            a.   First Priority. Dock site applicants who own property closest
to the dock site shall have first priority for a vacant dock site, except as
provided in the next section. In case of a tie based upon distance, the license
shall be awarded by lottery.
            b.   Not Eligible. Property owners who declined to participate in
the city’s dock area vacation proceedings shall not be eligible for dock
licenses at any location.
         2.   License Renewals. Dock license applicants who are applying to
renew an existing dock license for another one-year term shall have priority
over all other applicants.
         3.   Waiting List. The city shall maintain a waiting list for dock
licenses. Applicants will fill the waiting list according to an initial lottery
and after that, in the order they submit applications. In the event that a
current license holder does not renew their license, the dock license site does
not become vacant until each individual on the waiting list has had an
opportunity to obtain a license for that site. The Council shall adopt by
resolution procedures for conducting the lottery and administering the waiting
list.
   Subd. 7.   Terms of License. Before a dock license is issued, the applicant
must sign a license agreement containing the following terms and conditions and
other provisions as the Council may require.
         1.   Rights and Liabilities. Except as otherwise provided, a city dock
license entitles the license holder to the exclusive use and control of the
dock site and the same rights, obligations, and liabilities as a private
property owner. In addition to the provisions of this section, all dock license
sites shall fully comply with Sections 1004.03 and 1005.01 of this Code and all
applicable state laws and regulations
         2.   Indemnification. Dock license holders shall be solely responsible
for the dock license site and all activities thereon. The license holder shall
indemnify, defend, and hold the city, its officers, boards, commissions,
agents, and employees harmless from and against any and all lawsuits, claims,
causes of action, liability, and costs, of any nature that the city may at any
time, directly or indirectly, suffer, sustain in any way connected with the
grant of a dock license or activities on the dock license site.
         3.   Docks. The license holder shall maintain only one dock at the
dock license site.
         4.   License Plates. Dock license plates shall be issued by the city
after approval of the license application. The license plate must be securely
fixed to the shoreland end of the licensed dock. License plates shall be
maintained by the licensee and shall remain the property of the city.
         5.   Transferability. Dock licenses may not be sold, assigned,
licensed, or otherwise transferred in any way to any person, partnership, or
corporation, except that the license may be transferred to a purchaser of the
license holder’s residential property within the city.
         6.   Removal of Docks. Upon termination of a dock license, the license
holder must completely remove the licensed dock and all accessory items,
including, but not limited to, stairs leading to the dock from the public
property or public right-of-way. Any dock or accessory item that has not been
removed will be removed by the city and all costs the responsibility of the
last license holder for that dock site.
         7.   Dock Construction; Specifications and Dimensions.
            a.   Docks on dock sites shall comply with the following
regulations.
               i.   Docks shall not be less than 24 inches wide or more than 28
inches wide.
               ii.   Docks shall not be less than ten feet long or more than 24
feet long, unless otherwise approved by the Dock Inspector.
               iii.   Docks shall be constructed of materials approved by the
Dock Inspector; docks shall be of plank or rail construction; and all dock
posts shall be of equal height above the dock.
               iv.   Docks shall not be located closer than ten feet to a
neighboring dock license site or private property line.
            b.   The City Council may grant exceptions where there are unusual
circumstances and such an exception will not have a detrimental impact on the
lake. The City Council may impose conditions on any exception granted under
this subsection.
         8.   Dock Accessories. All dock accessories must be approved in
writing prior to use at a dock site. Dock accessories must comply with Section
1004.03 of the City Code.
         9.   Dock Storage. Docks must be removed from the water no later than
November 1. Licensed docks may be stored on public land or public rights-of-
way, provided the following conditions are met:
            a.   Storage is at least five feet from the city sidewalk;
            b.   Storage does not conflict within the following uses as shown
on the dock map: slide area, snowmobile crossings, skating rinks, trails, and
road access; and
            c.   Storage is not on those areas shown on the dock location map
as having topographical conditions that are too steep, or have fragile flora,
or where tree damage may occur.
         10.   Watercraft. Only properly licensed watercraft may be moored at a
licensed dock. No watercraft may be landed, beached, or otherwise anchored or
tied to the shore within a dock site.
         11.   Subject to Inspections. All licensed docks are subject to
inspection at reasonable times by the Dock Inspector or his or her designee.
         12.   City Access. The city shall be free to enter the dock site for
any reason at any reasonable time and to perform maintenance and regulatory
functions to be specified in the terms of the dock license agreement.
         13.   Costs. All costs of maintaining licensed docks and dock
accessories are the responsibility of the license holder.
         14.   Term. All dock licenses shall be valid for three years.
   Subd. 8.   Administration.
         1.   Dock Administrator. The City Council shall appoint a Dock
Administrator, who shall be responsible for the administration of the city dock
licensing program to include: processing applications and maintaining the dock
location map.
         2.   Dock Inspector. The Dock Administrator shall appoint a Dock
Inspector, who shall be responsible for inspecting all public shoreline and
public rights-of-way. The Dock Inspector shall report to the Dock Administrator
for all dock site related items.
         3.   Dock Location Map. There shall be on file with the city a map
maintained by the Dock Administrator showing the approved locations of docks on
public land and public rights-of-way. The map shall be reviewed annually. The
map shall contain the following information:
            a.   Locations of public property and public rights-of-way;
            b.   Specific dock locations;
            c.   A numerical designation for each dock location to correspond
with a list or license holders;
            d.   Restrictions applicable to certain areas of shoreline;
            e.   Shoreline access points; and
            f.   Shoreline areas available for winter storage.
         4.   Inspections; License Revocation. The Dock Inspector or designee
shall from time to time inspect any dock erected or maintained on public
property or public rights-of-way. If there are any violations of the City Code,
state statute, or state regulation, the dock license holder shall be notified
in writing of the way or ways the dock or dock area does not comply. The
license holder shall have 14 days to remove the dock or otherwise bring the
dock license site into compliance. If the violation is not corrected after 14
days, the license shall be revoked and all property removed from the dock
license site unless, within the 14 days, the Dock Administrator receives from
the license holder a written request for a hearing.
§ 560.04 Use of Greenways.
Except as otherwise provided for, no person shall, within the designated
“Greenways” or public rights-of-way adjacent to Big Lake and Lake Mitchell or
any other public body of water within the city, do any of the following:
         1.   Place or permit the placement of a dock, whether permanent or
otherwise;
         2.   Place or permit the placement of boat lifts within ten feet of
the greenway;
         3.   Place or permit the overnight placement of unattended lawn
furniture;
         4.   Launch, land, anchor on shore, or tie-off an unattended motorized
watercraft;
         5.   Park, permit the parking, driving, or riding of all motorized
vehicles, except that snowmobiles shall be permitted unless the right-of-way is
otherwise posted by order of the Council;
         6.   Erect, build, place, or permit the erection, placement, or
construction of any structure, fence, or obstruction, whether permanent or
otherwise;
         7.   Possess glass containers;
         8.   Unreasonably infringe on the rights or adjacent property owners;
         9.   Occupy the greenway or other right-of-way between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.; or
         10.   Engage in activities which result in trespassing onto private
property.
§ 560.05 Exemption.
Law enforcement officials and state and local resource management personnel are
exempt from the provisions of this section when acting in the performance of
their official duties.
§ 560.06 Markings.
The city shall be responsible for marking the public accesses and lakes with
signs or buoys explaining the rules and regulations of this section.
§ 560.07 Enforcement.
Primary enforcement of this section shall rest with the County Sheriff’s office
for water related activity.
§ 560.08 Penalty.
Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
SECTION 565: ILLICIT DISCHARGE
§ 565.01 Statutory Authorization.
This section is adopted pursuant to M.S. §§ 462.351 and 462.364, as they may be
amended from time to time, that grants municipalities the necessary powers and
a uniform procedure for municipal planning.
§ 565.02 Findings.
The city hereby finds that illicit discharge adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare by impacting water quality and contributing
to other environmental problems, creating nuisances, impairing other beneficial
uses of environmental resources, and hindering the ability of the city to
provide adequate water, sewage, flood control, and other community services. In
addition, extraordinary public expenditures may be required for the protection
of persons and property in such areas and in areas that may be affected by
unplanned land usage.
§ 565.03 Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to promote, preserve, and enhance the natural
resources within the city and protect them from adverse effects occasioned by
illicit discharge directly or indirectly to the city storm water system and to
natural waterbodies located in and downstream of the city.
§ 565.04 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Administrative Penalty. Administrative penalties as set forth in the
enforcement response procedures.
C.F.R. The Code of Federal Regulations.
City. The City of Big Lake, Minnesota.
Contaminated. Containing a harmful quantity of any substance.
Contamination. The presence of or entry of any substance which may be
deleterious to the public health and/or the quality of the water into the
public storm water system, waters of the state, or waters of the United States.
Cosmetic Cleaning. Cleaning done for cosmetic purposes to the exterior of
buildings, motorized vehicles, parking lots, recreational vehicles, or similar
activity. It does not include industrial cleaning, cleaning associated with
manufacturing activities, hazardous or toxic waste cleaning, or any cleaning
otherwise regulated under federal, state, or local laws.
ERP. The enforcement response procedure document as adopted by the City
Council.
Harmful Quantity. The amount of any substance that will cause pollution of
waters of the city, state, or nation that will cause lethal or sub-lethal
adverse effects on the representative, sensitive aquatic monitoring organisms
residing in waters.
Mobile Commercial Cosmetic Cleaning. Power washing, steam cleaning, and any
other mobile cosmetic cleaning operation of vehicles and/or exterior surfaces
engaged for commercial purposes.
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4). The system of conveyances,
including sidewalks, municipal streets, driveways, curb and gutter, ditches,
channels, retention basins, catch basins or similar storm water inlets, and/or
any other conveyance delivering water to the public storm sewer collection and
delivery system.
MS4 Permit. The State Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) permit issued to the city
for monitoring and maintaining water quality in its MS4. The Environmental
Protection Agency has promulgated the National Pollution Discharge Elimination
System, Phase II storm water rules. The MPCA has delegated the responsibility
to administer the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System, Phase II
storm water permit system to MS4 communities.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. The national program for
issuing, modifying, revoking, and reissuing, terminating, monitoring, and
enforcing permits, and imposing and enforcing pretreatment requirements, under
§§ 307, 402, 318, and 405 of the Federal Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§
1317, 1328, 1342, and 1345, respectively.
NOI. Notice of intent.
Notice of Intent. A written notice to the State Pollution Control Agency that
the city plans on meeting the MS4 permit requirements.
NPDES. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
Point Source. Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance, including,
but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation,
landfill leachate collection system, vessel, or other floating craft from which
pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does not include return flows
from irrigated agriculture or agricultural storm water runoff.
Pollutant. Dredge spoil; solid waste; incinerator residue; sewage; garbage;
sewage sludge; filter backwash; munitions; chemical wastes; biological
materials; toxic materials; radioactive materials; heat; wrecked or discarded
equipment; rock; sand; cellar dirt; and industrial, municipal, recreational,
and agricultural waste discharged into water or into the municipal separate
storm sewer system.
Pollution. The alteration of the physical, thermal, chemical, or biological
quality of, or the contamination of, any waters of the state or the MS4, that
renders the water harmful, detrimental, or injurious to humans, animal life,
vegetation, or property, or to the public health, safety, or welfare, or
impairs the usefulness or the public enjoyment of the water for any lawful or
reasonable purpose.
Release. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing into
groundwater, subsurface soils, surface soils, the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4), or the waters of the state.
Storm Water. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snow melt.
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan. A plan required by a permit to discharge
storm water associated with industrial activity, including construction, and
which describes and ensures the implementation of practices that are to be used
to reduce the pollutants in storm water discharges associated with industrial
activity at the facility.
SWPPP. Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan.
Waters of the State. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
§ 565.05 Administration.
The City Engineer and the City Administrator’s authorized representatives are
authorized to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
section.
§ 565.06 Discharge to MS4 Prohibited.
   Subd. 1.   Violations. A person commits a violation if the person introduces
or causes to be introduced into the city’s MS4 any discharge that is not
composed entirely of storm water.
   Subd. 2.   Exempt Discharge Activities. The following are considered exempt
discharge activities from enforcement action for a violation of this section:
         1.   A discharge authorized by, and in full compliance with, a site
specific NPDES permit such as a storm water management plan permit for
construction activities;
         2.   A discharge or flow resulting from firefighting by the Fire
Department;
         3.   Agricultural storm water runoff;
         4.   A discharge or flow from water line flushing or disinfection that
contains no harmful quantity of total residual chlorine or any other chemical
used in line disinfection;
         5.   A discharge or flow from lawn watering or landscape irrigation;
         6.   A discharge or flow from a diverted stream flow or natural
spring;
         7.   A discharge or flow from uncontaminated pumped groundwater or
rising groundwater;
         8.   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
         9.   Uncontaminated discharge or flow from a foundation drain, sump
pump, or footing drain;
         10.   A discharge or flow from a potable water source not containing
any harmful substance or material from the cleaning or draining of a storage
tank or other container;
         11.   A discharge or flow from air conditioning condensation that is
unmixed with water from a cooling tower, emissions scrubber, emissions filter,
or any other source of pollutant;
         12.   A discharge or flow from individual residential car washing;
         13.   A discharge or flow from a riparian habitat or wetland;
         14.   A discharge or flow from cold water (or hot water with prior
permission of the Director) used in street washing or cosmetic cleaning that is
not contaminated with any soap, detergent, degreaser, solvent, emulsifier,
dispersant, or any other harmful cleaning substance; or
         15.   Drainage from a private residential swimming pool containing no
harmful quantities of chlorine or other chemicals. Drainage from swimming pool
filter backwash is prohibited.
   Subd. 3.   No Exemptions. No exemption shall be allowed under Subd. 2 above
if:
         1.   The discharge or flow in question has been determined by the city
to be a source of a pollutant or pollutants to the waters of the state or to
the MS4;
         2.   Written notice of such determination has been provided to the
discharger;
         3.   The discharge has continued after the expiration of the time
given in the notice to cease the discharge; or
         4.   A person commits a violation if the person introduces or causes
to be introduced into the MS4 any harmful quantity of any substance.
   Subd. 4.   Connection with Sanitary Sewer Prohibited. A person commits an
offense if the person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows
such a connection to continue.
   Subd. 5.   Nuisances.
         1.   An actual or threatened discharge to the MS4 that violates or
would violate this section is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
         2.   A line conveying sewage or designed to convey sewage that is
connected to the MS4 is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
§ 565.07 Enforcement Response Procedures (ERP).
   Subd. 1.   ERP Document. The city has adopted an ERP document that includes
increasing penalties for illicit discharges of pollutants. This document
includes written notices, citations, cease and desist orders, as well as
revocation of permits.
         1.   The ERP document is hereby referenced as part of this illicit
discharge section.
         2.   The following Subd. 2 and 3 are additional ERPs that may be
applied where unlawful illicit discharges are associated with fully operational
operations properties that do not have construction related permits and where
cease and desist orders would create a disproportionate penalty.
   Subd. 2.   Emergency Suspension of Utility Service and MS4 Access.
         1.   Providing there are state regulations restricting the
interruption of service, the city may, without prior notice, suspend water
service, sanitary sewer service, and/or MS4 discharge access to a person
discharging to the MS4, waters of the state, or wastewater treatment plant when
such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which:
            a.   Presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment or to the health or welfare of persons; or
            b.   Presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
MS4 or waters of the state.
         2.   When the City Administrator or designee determines that city-
provided water and/or sanitary sewer service needs to be suspended pursuant to
subsection 565.06, 06, Subd. 3, the Director of Public Works is empowered to
order such suspension.
         3.   As soon as is practicable after the suspension of service or MS4
discharge access, the Director of Public Works shall notify the violator of the
suspension in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
order the violator to cease the discharge immediately. When time permits, the
Director should also attempt to notify the violator prior to suspending service
or access.
         4.   If the violator fails to comply with an order issued under
subsection 565.06, Subd. 5, the Director may take such steps is deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the state, or
to minimize danger to persons.
         5.   The city shall not reinstate suspended services or MS4 access to
the violator until:
            a.   The violator presents proof, satisfactory to the Director,
that the non-complying discharge has been eliminated and its cause determined
and corrected;
            b.   The violator pays the city for all costs the city incurred in
responding to abating and remediating the discharge or threatened discharge;
and
            c.   The violator pays the city for all costs the city will incur
in reinstating service or access.
         6.   a.   A violator whose service or access has been suspended or
disconnected may appeal such enforcement action to the Director, in writing,
within ten days’ of notice of the suspension.
            b.   The city may obtain a lien against the property to recover its
response costs.
            c.   The remedies provided by this section are in addition to any
other remedies set out in this chapter. Exercise of this remedy shall not be a
bar against, nor a prerequisite for, taking other action against a violator.
   Subd. 3.   Non-Emergency Suspension of Utility Service and MS4 Access.
         1.   The city may terminate the city-provided water supply, sanitary
sewer connection, and/or MS4 access any person discharging to the MS4 in
violation of this section, if such termination would abate or reduce the
illicit discharge.
         2.   The Director of Public Works will notify a violator of the
proposed termination of its water supply, sanitary sewer connection, and/or MS4
access. The violator may petition the Director for a reconsideration and
hearing before the City Council.
         3.   The city shall not reinstate suspended services or MS4 access to
the discharger until:
            a.   The violator presents proof, satisfactory to the Director,
that the non-complying discharge has been eliminated and its cause determined
and corrected; and
            b.   The violator pays the city for all costs the city incurred in
reinstating service or MS4 access.
   Subd. 4.   Remedies. The remedies provided by this section are in addition
to any other remedies set out in this section. Exercise of this remedy shall
not be a bar against, nor a prerequisite for, taking other action against a
violator.
   Subd. 5.   Violations. A person commits a violation if the person reinstates
water service, sanitary sewer service, and/or MS4 access to premises terminated
pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the Director of Public
Works.
SECTION 570: PARK REGULATIONS
§ 570.01 Purpose.
The purpose of this section which is enacted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes,
shall be to secure the quiet, orderly, and suitable use of public parks, trail
systems, and public access to lakes established by the city, and to further the
safety, health, comfort, and welfare of all persons in the use thereof.
§ 570.02 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Big Lake Parks. The park organization or system in the city.
Domestic Animal. A dog, cat, or horse.
Drugs. Any substance defined as a controlled substance by M.S. Chapter 152, as
it may be amended from time to time, or other statutes of federal law or
regulation.
Intoxicating Liquor. Any liquor which is intoxicating pursuant to state law and
includes ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented, spirituous, vinous, and malt
beverages containing in excess of 3.2% alcohol by weight.
Motorized Recreational Vehicle. Any self propelled, off-the-road, or all
terrain conveyance, including, but not limited to, a snowmobile, minibike,
amphibious vehicle, motorcycle, go-cart, trail bike, dune buggy, or four-wheel
drive vehicle.
Non-Intoxicating Malt Liquor. A beverage containing not more than 3.2% alcohol
by weight.
Park. Any land or water area and all facilities thereon, established as a park
of the city pursuant to Minnesota Statutes.
Park Director. The person appointed by the City Council to serve as the chief
administrative officer of the city park system.
Park Visitor. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental unit, company, or organization of any kind within a park.
Skate Park. The City Skate Park located at Lakeside Park.
Vehicle. Any motorized, propelled, animal drawn, or human powered conveyance.
Weapon. Any devise from which shots or projectile of any type can be discharged
by means of explosive, gas, compressed air or otherwise propelled, including,
but not limited to, firearms, bow and arrows, slings, and spring guns.
Wildlife. All living creatures, not human, wild by nature, endowed by sensation
and power or voluntary motion, including quadrupeds, mammals, birds, fish,
amphibians, reptiles, crustaceans, and mollusks.
§ 570.03 General Conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         1.   Use threatening, abusive, insulting, obscene, or indecent
language or to at in an indecent manner, or to do any act which constitutes a
breach of the public peace in a park;
         2.   Have in possession or bring into a park 3.2% malt liquor or
intoxicating malt liquor in park after 10:00 p.m. and before the park is open
the following day;
         3.   Consume any alcoholic beverage, whether intoxicating or 3.2% malt
liquor, in a park after 10:00 p.m. and before park is open the following day;
         4.   Disturb, harass, or interfere with any park visitor’s property;
         5.   Deposit, scatter, drop, or abandon in a park any bottles, cans,
broken glass, sewage, waste, or other material, except in receptacles provided
for such purposes;
         6.   Enter a park with glass beverage containers;
         7.   Dig trenches or make other excavations in a park;
         8.   Throw, discharge, or place on or upon any lake, stream, creek,
pond, or other body of water in or adjacent to a park, or tributary, stream,
storm sewer, or drain flowing into the waters any substance, liquid, or gas;
         9.   Gamble or participate in any game of chance in a park;
         10.   Use any land or body of water within a park for starting landing
field for aircraft, balloons, or parachutes, without a permit from the Park
Director;
         11.   Start a fire in the park, except a small fire for culinary
purposes in a designated area, or fail to fully extinguish such a fire;
         12.   Drop, throw, or otherwise leave unattended in a park, lighted
matches, burning cigars, cigarettes, tobacco, paper, or other combustible
material;
         13.   Sell, solicit, or carry on any business or commercial enterprise
or serve in a park unless authorized by the Park Director in writing; or
         14.   Use loudspeakers or other amplifying systems in a park, except
with written permission from the Park Director.
§ 570.04 Protection of Natural Resources and Wildlife.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         1.   Injure, destroy, or remove any tree, flower, shrub, plant, rock,
soil, or mineral in a park;
         2.   Kill, trap, hunt, pursue, or in any manner disturb or cause to be
disturbed any species of wildlife within a park except that fishing may be
permitted in designated areas;
         3.   Shoot any weapon into a park from beyond park boundaries;
         4.   Bring a dog, cat, horse, or other domestic animal into a park
unless under the control of the owner or attendant and the custodian shall have
the responsibility of cleaning up any feces of any animal and shall dispose of
such in a sanitary manner;
         5.   Bring or permit any dog, cat, horse, or other domestic animal to
enter a beach area, nature center, picnic area, park building, skating rink, or
Lakeside Park;
         6.   Permit a dog, cat, horse, or other domestic animal to disturb,
harass, or interfere with any park visitor or visitor’s property;
         7.   Possess any weapon within a park; or
         8.   Release within a park any plant, chemical, or other agent
potentially harmful to the vegetation or wildlife or the park.
§ 570.05 Camping.
It shall be unlawful for any person to camp in a park.
§ 570.06 Swimming.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         1.   Wade or swim within a park except at beaches designated for that
purpose, and then only between sunrise and sunset, or such hours as may be
designated by the Park Director. Any park visitor shall swim or wade at their
own risk;
         2.   Take bottles or glass of any kind, except eyeglasses, into a
designated beach area; or
         3.   Use air mattresses, inner tubes, or other inflatable devices,
except in designated beach areas.
§ 570.07 Boating.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         1.   Launch or land any boat, yacht, canoe, raft, or other watercraft
upon any water, lagoon, lake, pond, or slough within a park except at locations
and times designated for that purpose;
         2.   Leave unattended any boat or watercraft, except in areas
designated for that purpose;
         3.   Operate any watercraft in designated swimming area or other
prohibited area; or
         4.   Operate any watercraft in a park in violation of M.S. Chapter
86B, as it may be amended from time to time, or Section 560 of this Code.
§ 570.08 Horseback Riding.
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a horse or bring an untrailered
horse into a park.
§ 570.09 Bicycling.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle except on park
designated bikeways and roadways, and kept as close to the right-hand side
thereof as conditions shall permit.
§ 570.10 Meetings, Speeches, Demonstrations, and Parades.
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct public meeting, assemblies,
entertainment, parades, or demonstrations within a park without first obtaining
a written permit from the Park Director, and then only in an area designated by
permit.
§ 570.11 Vehicles.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         1.   Operate any vehicle within a park except upon designated roadways
and parking areas;
         2.   Operate vehicle in a park at a speed in excess of posted speed
limits;
         3.   Park or leave a vehicle standing within a park except at a
designated parking area;
         4.   Operate a vehicle which emits excessive or unusual noise, noxious
fumes, dense smoke, or other polluting matter;
         5.   Operate a vehicle in a reckless or careless manner in the park;
or
         6.   Wash, polish, grease, change oil, or repair any vehicle in a
park, except that emergency repairs may be made.
§ 570.12 Motorized Recreation Vehicle.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         1.   Operate a motorized recreation vehicle within a park except on
designated roadways and parking areas; or
         2.   Operate a snowmobile within a park other than on designated
trails within the park or snowmobile traffic.
§ 570.13 Park Operation.
   Subd. 1.   A person may be granted a permit for temporary exclusive use of
reserved space within a park. Said permit shall be for a maximum of eight
hours.
   Subd. 2.   No person shall remain within a park between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
   Subd. 3.   Any permit granted pursuant to this section may be revoked upon
the violation by the permittee of any provision of this section, or any other
ordinance, rule, or regulation of parks adopted by the city.
   Subd. 4.   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any facility or
area for which a fee or charge has been established by the city without payment
of the fee or charge.
         2.   The City Public Works Director or his or her designee shall have
the authority to administratively approve or deny requests to waive parking
fees at Lakeside Park for events benefitting non-profits, community events, and
for city business events open to the public.
   Subd. 5.   The city shall not be liable for any loss, damage, or injury
sustained by a park visitor.
   Subd. 6.   Any park or portion thereof may be declared closed to the public
by the City Council or the Park Director at any time and for any interval of
time or to certain uses, as the City Council or Park Director shall find
reasonably necessary.
   Subd. 7.   The City Council or Park Director shall have the right to issue
administrative rules and regulations that shall be established by the Council
or Park Director.
   Subd. 8.   Nothing in this section shall prevent employees or agents of the
city parks from performing their assigned duties.
   Subd. 9.   No person shall impersonate any employee for the city parks, nor
interfere with, harass, or hinder any employee in the discharge of his or her
duties.
§ 570.14 Skate Park.
Rules and regulations shall be posted at the skate park.
         1.   Skate park hours are from 5:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
         2.   Skateboards, skates, and bicycles are the only equipment allowed
in the skate park.
         3.   Parents are strongly encouraged to be in attendance at all times
if user is under the age of ten.
         4.   No drugs, alcohol, or tobacco products allowed.
         5.   Personal protective equipment should be worn, including helmets,
knee and elbow pads, gloves, wrist supports, and proper footwear.
         6.   Adding or altering the ramps and/or equipment is prohibited.
         7.   Keep noise to a minimum.
         8.   Profanity is prohibited.
         9.   Protect your park from graffiti and abuse.
         10.   Put trash in trash receptacles.
         11.   No food or drink is allowed in the skating area.
         12.   Do not cross in front of others.
         13.   No horseplay or “crack the whip.”
         14.   Follow all other park rules and regulations.
         15.   Skating privileges will be revoked if these rules are not
followed.
         16.   The city does not assume any responsibility for injury. Any use
of the skate park is “at your own risk.”
§ 570.15 Waiver.
Any provision of this section may be waived at the discretion and direction of
the City Council.
§ 570.16 Enforcement and Penalties.
   Subd. 1.   Misdemeanor. A person guilty of violating any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   Subd. 2.   Ejection. Designated city parks employees may, in connection with
their duties imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this section,
and eject from parks persons acting in violation of this section.
   Subd. 3.   Permit Revocation. The Park Director shall have the authority to
revoke for good cause any permit or reservation issued by the Park Director.
§ 570.17 Enforcement and Penalties (Parks Advisory Board).
   Subd. 1.   The city is establishing a Parks Advisory Committee.
   Subd. 2.   The City Council will establish the bylaws for the Committee and
amend the bylaws as they deem necessary.
   Subd. 3.   The Parks Advisory Committee’s responsibilities will be
determined by the Council through the bylaws.
   Subd. 4.   The Parks Advisory Committee will consist of seven voting members
including at least one City Council and one Planning Commissioner as defined in
the bylaws. The City Administrator or his or her designee will act as the
recording secretary and staff for the Parks Advisory Committee.
SECTION 580: MINORS
§ 580.01 Curfew.
   Subd. 1.   Under Age 15. Except as otherwise provided in this section, no
minor under the age of 15 shall loiter, loaf, idle, or be in or upon the public
streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or other public grounds,
public places, and public buildings, places of amusement, entertainment, or
refreshment, vacant lots, or other unsupervised places between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
   Subd. 2.   Fifteen to 18 Years Old. No minor under the age of 18 years but
at least 15 years of age shall loiter, loaf, idle, or be in or upon the public
streets, alleys, yards, playgrounds, or other public grounds, public places,
and public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or
unsupervised places between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the
following day.
   Subd. 3.   Exceptions. The restrictions of this section shall not apply when
the minor:
         1.   Is accompanied by parent, guardian, or other person having the
minor’s lawful care, custody, or control;
         2.   Is returning home by a direct route from and within 30 minutes
after a school activity or an activity of a religious or other voluntary
association;
         3.   Is on the way to or from the minor’s place of employment, and
such employment is verifiable;
         4.   Is upon an emergency errand or other legitimate business directed
by parent, guardian, or other adult having the lawful custody of the minor;
         5.   Is in a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         6.   Is exercising a First Amendment right;
         7.   Is on the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or that of a
neighbor if the neighbor does not complain; or
         8.   Is or has been married, or is otherwise emancipated.
   Subd. 4.   Parents’ Responsibility. No parent, guardian, or other adult
person having the care and custody of a minor under the age of 18 years shall
permit the minor to violate the provisions of this section.
   Subd. 5.   Proprietors’ Responsibility. No person operating or in charge of
any place of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor
under the age of 18 years to loiter, loaf, idle, or be in such place during the
hours prohibited by this Section, except as provided in this section.
   Subd. 6.   Juvenile Court. Any minor under the age of 18 years who violates
any of the provisions of this section shall be dealt with in accordance with
the Juvenile Court law and procedure.
   Subd. 7.   Misdemeanor. Any adult who violates this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
§ 580.02 Social Hosts.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose and Findings. The City Council intends to discourage
underage possession and consumption of alcohol, even if done within the
confines of a private residence, and intends to hold persons criminally
responsible who host events or gatherings where persons under 21 years of age
possess or consume alcohol regardless of whether the person hosting the event
or gathering supplied the alcohol. The City Council finds:
         1.   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where
alcohol is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of 21 are harmful to
those persons and constitute a potential threat to public health requiring
prevention or abatement;
         2.   Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage
persons, as well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol
consumption, such as alcohol overdose or alcohol-related traffic collisions;
         3.   Often, events or gatherings involving underage possession and
consumption occur outside the presence of parents. However, there are times
when the parent(s) is/are present and condone the activity and, in some
circumstances, provide the alcohol;
         4.   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an underage person is
a crime, it is difficult to prove, and an ordinance is necessary to help
further combat underage consumption; and
         5.   A deterrent effect will be created by holding a person criminally
responsible for hosting an event or gathering where underage possession or
consumption occurs.
   Subd. 2.   Definitions. For the purpose of this subsection, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
Alcohol. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, whiskey,
rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic Beverage. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid or
solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either alone
or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
Event or Gathering. Any group of three or more persons who have assembled or
gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
Host or Allow. To aid, conduct, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit a gathering or event.
Parent. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
         1.   As natural, adoptive parent, or step-parent;
         2.   As a legal guardian; or
         3.   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
Person. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation, or any
association of one or more individuals. A person does not include any city,
county, or state agency.
Residence, Premises, or Public or Private Property. Any home, yard, farm,
field, land, apartment, condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling
unit, or a hall or meeting room, park, or any other place of assembly, whether
occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
Underage Person. Any individual under 21 years of age.
   Subd. 3.   Prohibited Acts.
         1.   It is unlawful for any person(s) to host or allow an event or
gathering at any residence, premises, or on any other private or public
property where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present when the person knows
that an underage person will or does:
            a.   Consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; or
            b.   Possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the intent to
consume it and the person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent possession
or consumption by the underage person(s).
         2.   A person is criminally responsible for violating Subd. 3.1 above
if the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, or conspires with
or otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
         3.   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be
present at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
   Subd. 4.   Exceptions.
         1.   This subsection does not apply to conduct solely between an
underage person and his or her parents while present in the parent’s household.
         2.   This subsection does not apply to legally protected religious
observances.
         3.   This subsection does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or
3.2% malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit
holders who are regulated by M.S. § 340A.503, subd. 1(a)(1), as it may be
amended from time to time.
         4.   This subsection does not apply to situations where underage
persons are lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the
course and scope of employment.
   Subd. 5.   Penalty. Violation of this subsection is a misdemeanor.
SECTION 590: REFUSE
§ 590.01 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Garbage. Any animal and/or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparing, cooking, and consumption of food.
Refuse. Discarded waste materials in a solid or semi-liquid state, consisting
of garbage, rubbish, or a combination thereof.
Rubbish. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of combustible and
noncombustible materials, including yard waste.
§ 590.02 Required Collection of Mixed Municipal Solid Waste.
Every household and commercial/industrial establishment must be under contract
for at least weekly collection of mixed municipal solid waste by a licensed
collector. A household or commercial/industrial establishment may apply to the
City Council for an exemption from this requirement if the household or
commercial/industrial establishment presents a plan to ensure an
environmentally sound alternative.
§ 590.03 Storing of Refuse.
   Subd. 1.   Garbage shall be kept in suitable and sufficient cans or
receptacles with suitable handles and a tight fitting cover. Each of said
receptacles or cans shall be maintained and cleaned, and in a state of repair
which will prevent leakage.
   Subd. 2.   No person shall accumulate or permit to accumulate any refuse
which might constitute a nuisance by reason of appearance, odor, sanitation,
possible littering of neighboring properties, or a fire or health hazard.
   Subd. 3.   Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on any premises is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to remove any existing
accumulation of refuse within ten days after the effective date hereof shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter.
§ 590.04 Disposal Requirements.
   Subd. 1.   Disposing garbage, refuse, or rubbish on any streets, alleys,
drives, parks, playgrounds, or other public places or on any vacant lots
privately owned shall constitute a violation of this section whether such
material is discarded by the individual upon whose premises the material
originates or whether it is discarded by some other person.
   Subd. 2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of yard waste in
mixed municipal solid waste, as defined in Section 335 of the City Code, in a
disposal facility or in a resource recovery facility except for the purposes of
composting or co-composting.
   Subd. 3.   No person shall place or cause to be placed any garbage, refuse,
rubbish, or anything they intend to dispose of or abandon within or next to a
garbage can or dumpster or anywhere else unless they own or lease the
receptacle or have the permission of the property owner or tenant.
§ 590.05 Penalty.
Anyone found in violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
SECTION 595: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 595.01 Use or Possession Prohibited.
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally use or to possess
drug paraphernalia. Any violation of this subsection is a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 4-22-2015)
§ 595.02 Delivery or Manufacturing Prohibited.
A person may not deliver, possess with intent to deliver, or manufacture with
intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, if that person knows or should
reasonably know that the drug paraphernalia will be used to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, enhance, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
substance in violation of M.S. Chapter 152, as it may be amended from time to
time. Any violation of this subsection is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 4-22-2015)
§ 595.03 Drug Paraphernalia Definition.
For the purpose of this section, the following definition apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Drug Paraphernalia.
         1.   Except as otherwise provided in item 2 below, “drug
paraphernalia” means all equipment, products, and materials of any kind, which
are used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, enhancing,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling,
or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance in
violation of M.S. Chapter 152, as it may be amended from time to time.
         2.   “Drug paraphernalia” does not include:
            a.   The possession, manufacture, delivery, or sale of hypodermic
needles or syringes;
            b.   Products that detect the presence of fentanyl or a fentanyl
analog in a controlled substance; or
            c.   Cannabis paraphernalia as defined in M.S. Chapter 342.
         3.   Except as specifically exempted, the term “drug paraphernalia”
includes, without limitation:
            a.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived,
with the exception of personal hemp or cannabis cultivation as permitted under
M.S. Chapter 342;
            b.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substances;
            c.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for
use in increasing the potency of any species of plant, which is a controlled
substance;
            d.   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use
in identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
controlled substances;
            e.   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for
use in weighing or measuring controlled substances;
            f.   Diluents and adulterants, including quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, dextrose, and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
            g.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, grinders, and mixing
devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in compounding,
manufacturing, producing, processing, or preparing controlled substances;
            h.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances;
            i.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or
designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances or products or
materials used or intended for use in manufacturing, producing, processing, or
preparing controlled substances;
            j.   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in
ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing controlled substances to include,
but not limited to, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body,
including:
               i.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured
metal bowls;
               ii.   Water pipes;
               iii.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
               iv.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
               v.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
               vi.   Chamber pipes;
               vii.   Carburetor pipes;
               viii.   Electric pipes;
               ix.   Air driven pipes;
               x.   Chillums;
               xi.   Bongs; and
               xii.   Ice pipes or chillers.
            k.   Ingredients or components to be used or intended or designed
to be used in manufacturing, producing, processing, preparing, testing, or
analyzing a controlled substance, whether or not otherwise lawfully obtained,
including anhydrous ammonia, nonprescription medications, methamphetamine
precursor drugs, or lawfully dispensed controlled substances.
(Ord. passed 4-22-2015; Ord. 2025-05, passed 5-14-2025)
§ 595.04 Drug Paraphernalia Guidelines.
In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or other
authority shall consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors:
         1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control
of the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
         3.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this section;
         4.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
         5.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
         6.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or
of any person in control of the object, to deliver the object to another person
whom the owner or person in control of the object knows, or should reasonably
know, intends to use the object to facilitate a violation of this section. The
innocence of an owner, or of any person in control of the object, as to a
direct violation of this section may not prevent a finding that the object is
intended or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
         7.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning the object’s use;
         8.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object, which explain or
depict the object’s use;
         9.   National and local advertising concerning the object’s use;
         10.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         11.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, for example, a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         12.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object or objects to the total sales of the business enterprise;
         13.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community;
         14.   Expert testimony concerning the object’s use; and
         15.   The actual or constructive possession by the owner or by a
person in control of the object or the presence in a vehicle or structure where
the object is located of written instructions, directions, or recipes to be
used, or intended or designed to be used, in manufacturing, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, or analyzing a controlled substance.
(Ord. passed 4-22-2015)
SECTION 596: SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
§ 596.01 Findings and Intent.
   Subd. 1.   Repeat sexual offenders, sexual offenders who use physical
violence, and sexual offenders who prey on children are sexual predators who
present an extreme threat to the public safety. Sexual offenders are extremely
likely to use physical violence and to repeat their offenses. Most sexual
offenders commit many offenses, have many more victims than are ever reported,
and are prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes. This makes the cost of
sexual offender victimization to society at large, while incalculable, clearly
exorbitant.
   Subd. 2.   It is the intent of this section to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect, and improve the health, safety, and welfare of
its citizens by establishing areas around locations where children regularly
congregate in concentrated numbers, wherein certain sexual predators are
prohibited from establishing temporary or permanent residence.
§ 596.02 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Day Care Center. A facility licensed by the state in which care, supervision,
and training for individuals under the age of 18 is provided for part of a 24-
hour period.
Designated Offender. Any person who has been categorized as a Level III
predatory offender under M.S. § 244.052, as it may be amended from time to
time, a successor statute, or a similar statute from another state, and whose
victim was under the age of 18 at the time of the offense.
Park or Playground. Any land, including improvements, operated by the city for
the use by the general public as a recreational area.
Permanent Residence. A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides for 14
or more consecutive days.
School. Any public or non-public educational institution that offers
educational instruction to individuals under the age of 18.
Temporary Residence. A place, other than a person’s permanent residence, where
a person abides, lodges, or resides for a period of 14 or more days in the
aggregate during any calendar year or four or more consecutive or non-
consecutive days during any month.
§ 596.03 Residency Prohibitions; Penalties; Exception.
   Subd. 1.   Residency Prohibition.
         1.   It is unlawful for any designated offender to establish a
permanent residence or temporary residence within 2,000 feet of any school, day
care center, park, or playground.
         2.   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the permanent residence or temporary residence of the
designated offender to the nearest outer property line of a school, day care
center, park, or playground.
   Subd. 2.   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding $1,000, or by confinement for a term not exceeding 90
days, or by both such fine and confinement. Each day a person maintains a
residence in violation of this section constitutes a separate violation.
   Subd. 3.   Exceptions. A designated offender residing within a prohibited
area as described in Subd. 1 above does not commit a violation of this section
if any of the following apply:
         1.   The designated offender established the permanent residence or
temporary residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S.
§§ 243.166 or 243.167, as they may be amended from time to time, or successor
statute, prior to the effective date of this section;
         2.   The designated offender was a minor when he or she committed the
offense and was not convicted as an adult;
         3.   The designated offender is a minor; or
         4.   The school, day care center, park, or playground within 2,000
feet of the designated offender’s permanent residence or temporary residence
was designated or opened after the designated offender established the
permanent residence or temporary residence and reported and registered the
residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166 or 243.167, as they may be amended from
time to time, or successor statute.
SECTION 597: MISTREATMENT OF A POLICE CANINE
§ 597.01 Mistreatment of a Police Canine.
It is unlawful for any person to willfully tease, taunt, torment, harass,
strike, kick, mutilate, disable, distract, or injure any police canine, or to
cause any other person or animal to impede, harass, or interfere with the
function of any dog while such animal is being utilized by the Police
Department, or any officer or employee thereof, in the performance of any
function or duty of said department, of such officer or employee.
§ 597.02 Penalty.
Anyone found in violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
SECTION 598: TARGETED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING
§ 598.01 Purpose of Section.
The city has an interest in the protection of residential privacy, the well-
being and tranquility of the home. The City Council finds that, without
resorting to targeted residential picketing, ample opportunities exist for
those otherwise engaged in targeted residential picketing to exercise
constitutionally protected freedoms of speech and expression.
§ 598.02 Definition.
For the purposes of this section, the term “targeted residential picketing”
means:
         1.   Marching, standing, or patrolling by one or more persons directed
solely at a particular residential building in a manner that adversely affects
the safety, security, or privacy of an occupant of the building;
         2.   Marching, standing, or patrolling by one or more persons which
prevents an occupant of a residential building from gaining access to or
exiting from the property on which the residential building is located; or
         3.   Standing, marching, patrolling, or picketing by one or more
persons focused in front of or adjacent to a particular residential dwelling
without the consent of that dwelling’s occupants.
§ 598.03 Prohibited Activity.
No person shall engage in targeted residential picketing within the city.
§ 598.04 Penalty.
Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 598.05 Severability.
Should any section, subdivision, clause, or other provision of this section be
held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the section as a whole, or in any part thereof,
other than the part held to be invalid.
CHAPTER 6: TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
      
600.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
610.   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
      
620.   PARKING
      
625.   EXCESSIVE VEHICLE NOISE
      
630.   REGULATION OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
631.   REGULATION OF SPECIALTY VEHICLES
      
632.   OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY
DEVICES
      
633.   MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTERS
      
634.   MEDIUM SPEED ELECTRIC VEHICLES AND NEIGHBORHOOD
ELECTRIC VEHICLES
      
640.   BICYCLES
 
Subsection
Section 600: General Regulations
   
600.01   Statutory Adoption
   
600.02   Operation of Vehicles During Fires
   
600.03   Unreasonable Acceleration
   
600.04   Exhibition Driving
   
600.05   Penalty
Section 610: Traffic Control Devices
   
610.01   Placement and Maintenance
   
610.02   Observances
Section 620: Parking
   
620.01   Definition
   
620.02   Municipal Lots
   
620.03   Parking, Stopping, Standing
   
620.04   Camping
   
620.05   Selling
   
620.06   Truck Engines Idling
   
620.07   Consecutive Hours
   
620.08   Winter Parking
   
620.09   Parking in Regard to Snow Plowing and/or Removal
   
620.10   Yard Parking
   
620.11   Prohibited Parking
   
620.12   Penalties
   
620.13   Parking of Trucks and Commercial Vehicles
Section 625: Excessive Vehicle Noise
   
625.01   Definitions
   
625.02   Adoption by Reference
   
625.03   Excessive Vehicle Noise
   
625.04   Signing
   
625.05   Amendments
   
625.06   Penalty
Section 630: Regulation of Recreational Vehicles
   
630.01   Purpose and Intent
   
630.02   Definition
   
630.03   Recreational Vehicle Operation Requirements
   
630.04   Street Crossings
   
630.05   Hours of Operation
   
630.06   Minimum Equipment Requirements
   
630.07   Designation of Public Areas for Use
   
630.08   Public Safety Usage
   
630.09   Penalty
Section 631: Regulation of Specialty Vehicles
   
631.01   Definitions
   
631.02   Permit Required for Operation of Specialty Vehicles
   
631.03   Authorized Operators
   
631.04   Penalty
Section 632: Operation of Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Devices
   
632.01   Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Device
   
632.02   Rights and Responsibilities of a Pedestrian
   
632.03   Operation
   
632.04   Penalty
Section 633: Motorized Foot Scooters
   
633.01   Motorized Foot Scooter
   
633.02   Operation
   
633.03   Penalty
Section 634: Medium Speed Electric Vehicles and Neighborhood Electric Vehicles
   
634.01   Definitions
   
634.02   Operation
   
634.03   Authorized Operators
   
634.04   Penalty
Section 640: Bicycles
   
640.01   Regulations
   
640.02   Penalty
SECTION 600: GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 600.01 Statutory Adoption.
The provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to time, are
hereby adopted and incorporated by reference in this Code and made a part
hereof as though set out herein in full.
§ 600.02 Operation of Vehicles During Fires.
   Subd. 1.   Vehicles Shall Stop. Upon the approach of any vehicle or
apparatus of the Fire Department answering an alarm of fire, the driver of any
vehicle, other than a vehicle of the aforesaid Department, shall drive as
closely as possible to the right-hand curb and stop and shall not follow within
500 feet after the vehicles and apparatus of the Fire Department have passed.
   Subd. 2.   Parking Near Fires. No vehicle, excepting under direction of the
Chief of the Fire Department in charge at the time, shall approach or park
within 500 feet of any fire.
   Subd. 3.   Driving Over Hoses. No person shall drive any motor vehicle over
any line of hose which at the time is being used to extinguish fires unless the
hose is covered with a guard.
§ 600.03 Unreasonable Acceleration.
   Subd. 1.   Nuisance. Unreasonable acceleration of any motor vehicle on any
street, private road, or public or private parking lot or driveway in the city
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be prohibited.
   Subd. 2.   Definition. “Unreasonable acceleration of a motor vehicle” is
hereby defined as acceleration which spins a tire or tires resulting in the
breaking of traction between a tire or tires and the street surface and
accomplished in such a manner as to cause a squealing or screeching sound by
the tires or the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires of the vehicle or
both. Prima facie evidence of such unreasonable acceleration is squealing or
screeching sounds emitted by the tires or the throwing of sand or gravel by the
tires or both.
§ 600.04 Exhibition Driving.
No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate, or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, skidding, sliding, swaying, or in a manner simulating a race.
§ 600.05 Penalty.
Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a petty
misdemeanor.
SECTION 610: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 610.01 Placement and Maintenance.
The Council and other local authorities in the respective jurisdictions shall
place and maintain such traffic control devices upon highways under their
jurisdiction as they shall deem necessary to regulate, warn, or guide traffic.
The Engineer shall place and maintain traffic control signs, signals, and
devices, including signs prohibiting the stopping, standing, and parking of
vehicles, when and as required by the Council under the traffic ordinances of
this municipality, in order to make effective the provisions of the ordinances.
All such traffic control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the
manual and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Highways where
practicable, or special requirements adopted by the Council and shall, insofar
as required for a particular purpose, be uniform as to type and location
throughout the municipality to the extent practicable. All traffic control
devices erected hereunder and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law
or this section shall be official traffic control devices, and the driver of
any vehicle shall obey the instructions of the official traffic control device
unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer, subject to exceptions
granted to the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle.
§ 610.02 Observance.
   Subd. 1.   General. The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of
any official traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this chapter.
   Subd. 2.   Enforcement. No provision of this chapter for which official
traffic control devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged
violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation, an official device
is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state that official
traffic control devices are required, such section shall be effective even
though no devices are erected or in place.
   Subd. 3.   Placement.
         1.   Whenever official traffic control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, the devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
         2.   Any official traffic control device placed pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements
pertaining to the devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of
this chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
SECTION 620: PARKING
§ 620.01 Definition.
For the purpose of this section, the term “owner” shall mean the person, firm,
or corporation that holds legal title on the date of any alleged violation as
evidence by the official records of the State Secretary of State. Copies of any
of the files or records of the Secretary of State certified as being true
copies shall be received in evidence with the same force in effect as the
originals, shall be admissible to the ownership of the vehicle, but nothing
herein contained shall exclude or prohibit the introduction of other evidence
bearing on the issue of ownership.
§ 620.02 Municipal Lots.
   Subd. 1.   Establishment. The City Council is hereby be authorized to
establish and designate, by resolution, municipally owned land, ground, or
property as an area for the parking of automobiles, wagons, or motorcycles and
to make and establish appropriate regulations and provisions for the use of the
designated areas.
   Subd. 2.   Hours. No person shall leave for any period of time during the
time period from 1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. of any day or for more than two hours
from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. of any day, whether attended or unattended, any
automobile or other vehicle of any kind or parts thereof on any municipally
owned parking area.
§ 620.03 Parking, Stopping, Standing.
It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or driver of a motor vehicle to stop,
stand, or park the vehicle in any of the following places except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in compliance with the directions
of a peace officer or traffic control devices:
         1.   On a sidewalk or boulevard between the sidewalk and roadway;
         2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
         3.   Within an intersection;
         4.   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
         5.   On a crosswalk;
         6.   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at any intersection;
         7.   Within 30 feet of any arterial stop sign or sign indicating the
direction for travel or traffic control signal;
         8.   In any manner on any street or highway so as to interfere with or
interrupt the passage of other vehicles;
         9.   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and on
a side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance when properly sign posted;
         10.   Within 500 feet of any fire;
         11.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street or highway;
         12.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing,
or parking;
         13.   In a handicapped zone unless the vehicle has handicapped plates
or a sticker authorizing such parking;
         14.   So as to block a fire escape or the exit from any building
whether on public or private property;
         15.   Where temporary signs are posted by the Police Department or by
some other person at City Council’s direction reading “No Parking by Police
Order” as long as such signs are in place;
         16.   In an area designated as a fire lane; or
         17.   Move a vehicle not owned by the person into any prohibitive area
or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
§ 620.04 Camping.
No person shall for camping purposes leave or park a house trailer or
recreational vehicle on or within the limits of any street or highway or on any
highway right-of-way except where signs are erected for a designated camp site.
§ 620.05 Selling.
No vehicle shall be parked on any street, boulevard, or unimproved surface for
the purpose of displaying it for sale.
§ 620.06 Truck Engines Idling.
No person shall be allowed to park a truck on a street or private drive in a
residentially zoned district and leave the motor running or the refrigeration
unit motor running during the hours from 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
§ 620.07 Consecutive Hours.
On any city street for more than 72 consecutive hours, no vehicle shall be
parked on either side of Lake Street in the city from U.S. Highway # 10 south
to the right-of-way of the Burlington Northern Railway longer than two hours
from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on any day except Sundays and legal holidays.
§ 620.08 Winter Parking.
No vehicle shall park on any street or roadway between the hours of 12:01 a.m.
and 8:00 a.m. from November 1 through April 15, except emergency vehicles on
any city street.
§ 620.09 Parking in Regard to Snow Plowing and/or Removal.
After a snowfall of two inches or more, all streets in the city shall be
cleared of all motor vehicles and parts thereof, for the purpose of snowplowing
and/or removal, until all streets are plowed. Any motor vehicle or parts
thereof left on any street or boulevard in the city in such way as to impede
the performance of the city and/or state snowplow shall be dealt with under the
penalty provision of this section.
§ 620.10 Yard Parking.
No person shall park any motor or recreational vehicle (vehicle must be
operable and licensed as required by the state) in any yard of any lot or
premises except if the vehicle is parked in a lawful garage, or in a driveway
leading to a garage, or in the absence of a garage, a driveway providing
immediate access to the lot or premises, or in the case of commercial or
industrial properties, in designated parking lots but not the yard space
immediately abutting the parking lot; and in no case shall a vehicle be parked
on any premises without the consent of the property owner (see §§ 1005.07 and
1006.03 for additional restrictions).
   Subd. 1.   No person shall park any vehicle in any yard of any lot or
premises except if the vehicle is parked on the appropriate parking facility.
Carports are not allowed nor as a suitable screening device. There shall be no
more than two vehicles parked in any rear yard.
   Subd. 2.   All areas intended to be utilized for parking space and driveways
shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete, or other surface materials approved
by the City Engineer, suitable to control dust and drainage. Driveway aprons
shall be constructed and surfaced with either concrete or bituminous in
compliance with adopted city construction specifications.
   Subd. 3.   The grade elevation of any parking area shall not exceed 5%
unless approved by the City Engineer.
§ 620.11 Prohibited Parking.
   Subd. 1.   No vehicle or motor vehicle as described by M.S. Chapter 169, as
amended from time to time, shall be parked on the east side of Lake Street
South (U.S. Highway #25) from U.S. Highway #10 south to the Burlington Northern
Railway in the city.
   Subd. 2.   No vehicle or motor vehicle as described by M.S. Chapter 169, as
amended from time to time, shall be parked on either side of Lake Street South
(U.S. Highway #25) south of the Burlington Northern Railway in the city.
§ 620.12 Penalties.
   Subd. 1.   Parking Fines. Fines for violations of this section shall be as
set in the city fee schedule attached as an appendix to this Code.
   Subd. 2.   Impounding. Any automobile or other vehicle or part thereof which
shall be left in violation this chapter shall be summarily removed by proper
officers of the Police Department or this city or persons employed or
designated by them and stored in an appropriate place. All necessary costs and
expenses of towing, removing, and storing of the vehicles or parts thereof
shall first be paid to the City Administrator by the person claiming the
vehicle before release.
§ 620.13 Parking of Trucks and Commercial Vehicles.
No person shall park a vehicle of a registered gross weight of 12,000 pounds or
more, or any truck, trailer, semi-trailer, truck-tractor, road tractor, or
vehicle used to commercially haul garbage or rubbish, or any vehicle or
combination of vehicles equipped with more than two axles, on any street,
highway, or right-of-way which is not specifically designated as a county road
or state highway, unless the vehicle is in the process of being loaded or
unloaded at such location. For the purposes of this subsection, terms defined
in M.S. § 169.011, as it may be amended from time to time, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in such statute.
SECTION 625: EXCESSIVE VEHICLE NOISE
§ 625.01 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Abnormal or Excessive Noise.
         1.   A distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s value.
         2.   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working order.
         3.   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693 and Minn.
Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1060, as they may be amended from time to
time, which establish motor vehicle noise standards.
Engine Retarding Brake. A dynamic brake, Jake brake, Jacobs brake, C brake,
paccar brake, transmission brake, or other similar engine retarding brake
system which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
§ 625.02 Adoption by Reference.
M.S. §§ 169.69 and 169.693 (motor vehicle noise limits) and Minn. Rules parts
7030.1000 through 7030.1060, as they may be amended from time to time, are
hereby adopted by reference.
§ 625.03 Excessive Vehicle Noise.
   Subd. 1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust or
permit the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except through a
muffler that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies with
all applicable state laws and regulations.
   Subd. 2.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to
intentionally use an engine retarding brake on any public highway, street,
parking lot, or alley within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise
from the engine because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system,
except in an emergency.
§ 625.04 Signing.
Signs stating “vehicle noise laws enforced” may be installed at locations
deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise motorists of the prohibitions
contained in this section, except that no sign stating “vehicle noise laws
enforced” shall be installed on a state highway without a permit from the State
Department of Transportation. The provisions of this section are in full force
and effect even if no signs are installed.
§ 625.05 Amendments.
It is the intention of the City Council that all future amendments to any
statutes and rules referenced or adopted by reference in this section are also
referenced or adopted by reference as if they had been in existence at the time
this section was adopted.
§ 625.06 Penalty.
Anyone found in violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
SECTION 630: REGULATION OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 630.01 Purpose and Intent.
The purpose of this section is to provide reasonable regulations for the use of
special and recreational motor vehicles on public and private property in the
city. This section is not intended to allow what the Minnesota Statutes
prohibit or to prohibit what the Minnesota Statutes expressly allow. It is
intended to ensure the public safety and prevent a public nuisance.
§ 630.02 Definition.
For the purpose of this section, the following definition apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Recreational Motor Vehicle. Any self-propelled vehicle and any vehicle
propelled or drawn by a self-propelled vehicle used for recreational purposes,
including, but not limited to, trail bike, off-highway motorcycle, as defined
by M.S. § 84.787, subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time, or other
all-terrain vehicle as defined by M.S. §§ 84.90 and 84.92, subds. 8 through 10,
as they may be amended from time to time, or motorized go-carts, hovercraft, or
motor vehicle licensed for highway operation, which is being used for off-road
recreational purposes, but not including motorized golf carts, personal
electric mobility devices, motorized foot scooters, neighborhood electric
vehicles, medium-speed electric vehicles, or mini-trucks.
§ 630.03 Recreational Vehicle Operation Requirements.
   Subd. 1.   No person shall enter on any land not owned by the person for the
purpose of operating a recreational motor vehicle without specific written
permission from the owner or person with lawful control of the property.
   Subd. 2.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a recreational motor
vehicle:
         1.   On publicly owned land, including schools, city streets,
boulevards, park property, playgrounds, recreation areas, and greenways, except
where permitted by this section, and as permitted by this subdivision.
            a.   An all-terrain vehicle as defined by M.S. § 84.92, subd. 8, as
it may be amended from time to time, and Class 1 ATV as defined by M.S. §
84.92, subd. 9, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be permitted to
operate on a city street, or other city roadway and parking lot designed for
vehicular traffic in accordance with Section 600.
            b.   A snowmobile as defined under M.S. § 84.81, as it may be
amended from time to time, may be operated on a city street for the exclusive
purpose of traveling the most direct route to and from a place designated or
permissible for operation. A snowmobile must be operated as far to the right of
the roadway nearest the curb as practical.
         2.   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise
that disturbs, annoys, or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons;
         3.   On a public sidewalk, walkway, walking path, or bike trail
provided or used for pedestrian or bicycle travel;
         4.   At a place while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
narcotics or habit-forming drugs;
         5.   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all
the surrounding circumstances;
         6.   At any place in a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as
to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property or to cause injury
or damage thereto;
         7.   On any public street, highway, or right-of-way unless registered
pursuant to state law;
         8.   To intentionally drive, chase, run over, or kill any animal, wild
or domestic;
         9.   By halting any recreational motor vehicle carelessly or
heedlessly in disregard of the rights or the safety of others or in a manner so
as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property;
         10.   Without a functioning headlight, taillight, and stoplight;
         11.   Without a brake operational by either hand or foot;
         12.   On residential lots less than two and one-half acres in size
unless the purpose is for maintenance, plowing, or other work-related
activities;
         13.   At a speed exceeding ten mph on the frozen surface of public
waters within 100 feet of a person not on an all-terrain vehicle or within 100
feet of a fishing shelter;
         14.   Helmet and seat belts requirements shall be regulated in
accordance with M.S. § 84.9256, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to
time; and
         15.   All-terrain vehicles and passengers:
            a.   No person under 18 years of age shall operate a Class 1 all-
terrain vehicle while carrying a passenger except for a parent or lawful
guardian; and
            b.   No person under 18 years of age shall operate a Class 2 all-
terrain vehicle while carrying a passenger except for a parent or lawful
guardian.
§ 630.04 Street Crossings.
   Subd. 1.   No person under 12 years of age operating the vehicles regulated
herein shall make a direct crossing of any street, highway, or public right-of-
way; or operate a vehicle regulated herein on a public street, highway, or road
right-of-way; or operate a vehicle regulated herein on public lands or waters,
except that a person at least ten years of age but under 12 years of age may
operate an all-terrain vehicle with an engine capacity up to 110cc on public
lands or waters if accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   Subd. 2.   A recreational vehicle may make a direct crossing of a public
road right-of-way, provided:
         1.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the road and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
         2.   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the road;
         3.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard;
         4.   In crossing a divided road, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of the road with another public road; and
         5.   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on.
§ 630.05 Hours of Operation.
Hours for use are sunrise to sunset.
§ 630.06 Minimum Equipment Requirements.
   Subd. 1.   Standard mufflers shall be properly attached and in constant
operation to reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum
necessary for operation. No person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass,
straight pipe, or similar device on a recreational motor vehicle motor. The
exhaust system shall not emit or produce a sharp popping or crackling sound, or
emit in excess of 99db from a distance of 20 inches.
   Subd. 2.   Brakes shall be adequate to control the movement of and to stop
and hold under any conditions of operation.
   Subd. 3.   At least one clear lamp shall be attached to the front with
sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least
100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric
conditions. The head lamp shall be so that glaring rays are not projected into
the eyes of an oncoming vehicle operator. It shall also be equipped with at
least one red tail lamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to
exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. This
equipment shall be required and shall be in operating condition when the
vehicle is operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset and one-
half hour before sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility.
§ 630.07 Designation of Public Areas for Use.
   Subd. 1.   The Council may designate areas and exclusive city streets for
use of recreational motor vehicles by ordinance approval by a majority of the
members of the City Council. The areas designated may be changed from time to
time by the City Council. Any area designated shall be published in the
official newspaper of the city. If an area is changed, the change shall be
published in like manner in the official newspaper of the city. An up-to-date
map of any designated park areas open for recreational motor vehicle use shall
be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk, who shall provide on request a
copy of the map together with the applicable rules, regulations, and this
section to each person requesting the information from the city.
   Subd. 2.   Unless designated by the City Council as an area for recreational
motor vehicles, the use on city park property and city streets shall be
unlawful. Further, the use of city parks designated by the City Council shall
be in accordance with all of the applicable provisions of this section.
§ 630.08 Public Safety Usage.
Notwithstanding the prohibitions in this section, a recreational vehicle may be
operated in a time, a place deemed appropriate by an official public safety
entity in accordance with their lawful duties.
§ 630.09 Penalty.
All violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor offense.
SECTION 631: REGULATION OF SPECIALTY VEHICLES
§ 631.01 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Driver. The person driving and having physical control over the motorized golf
cart, utility task vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck and being the
licensee.
Mini-Truck. As defined in M.S. § 169.011, subd. 40(a), as it may be amended
from time to time.
Motorized Golf Cart. Any passenger conveyance being driven with four wheels
with four low-pressure tires that is limited in engine displacement of less
than 800 cc and total dry weight less than 800 pounds.
Utility Task Vehicle. As defined by M.S. § 169.045, subd. 1(3), as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 631.02 Permit Required for Operation of Specialty Vehicles.
No person shall operate a motorized golf cart, utility task vehicle, all-
terrain vehicle, or mini-truck on streets, alleys, sidewalks, or other public
property without obtaining a permit as provided herein.
   Subd. 1.   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied
by the city and shall contain all of the following information: the name and
address of the applicant.
   Subd. 2.   Any applicable permit fees shall be as set forth in the adopted
city’s fee schedule.
   Subd. 3.   Permits shall be granted for a period of three years and may be
renewed.
   Subd. 4.   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles, all-terrain
vehicles, and mini-trucks are permitted to operate only on city streets, not
state or federal highways, except to cross at designated intersections.
   Subd. 5.   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles, and all-terrain
vehicles may only be operated on designated roadways from sunrise to sunset.
   Subd. 6.   Motorized golf carts shall display the slow-moving vehicle emblem
provided for in M.S. § 169.045, as it may be amended from time to time, when
operated on designated roadways.
   Subd. 7.   The operator of a motorized golf cart, utility task vehicle, all-
terrain vehicle, or mini-truck may cross any street or highway intersecting a
designated roadway.
   Subd. 8.   The Chief of Police may suspend or revoke a permit granted
hereunder upon a finding that the holder thereof if there is evidence that the
permit holder cannot safely operate the motorized golf cart, utility task
vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck on the designated roadways. The
applicant reserves the right to appeal this suspension or revocation to the
City Council.
   Subd. 9.   The number of occupants on the golf cart, utility task vehicle,
all-terrain vehicle, or mini-truck may not exceed the design occupant load.
§ 631.03 Authorized Operators.
Authorized city staff may operate city owned motorized golf carts, all-terrain
vehicles, utility task vehicles, and mini-trucks without obtaining a permit
within the city on city streets, sidewalks, trails, rights-of-way, and public
property when conducting city business.
§ 631.04 Penalty.
All violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor offense.
SECTION 632: OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES
§ 632.01 Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Device.
Means a self-balancing device with two non-tandem wheels, designed to transport
not more than one person, and operated by an electric propulsion system that
limits the maximum speed of the device to 15 mph.
§ 632.02 Rights and Responsibilities of a Pedestrian.
Except as otherwise provided by law, a person operating an electric personal
assistive mobility device has the rights and responsibilities of a pedestrian.
§ 632.03 Operation.
   Subd. 1.   An electric personal assistive mobility device may be operated on
a bicycle path.
   Subd. 2.   No person may operate an electric personal assistive mobility
device on a roadway, sidewalk, or bicycle path at a rate of speed that is not
reasonable and prudent under the conditions. Every person operating an electric
personal assistive mobility device on a roadway, sidewalk, or bicycle path is
responsible for becoming and remaining aware of the actual and potential
hazards then existing on the roadway or sidewalk and must use due care in
operating the device.
   Subd. 3.   An electric personal assistive mobility device may be operated on
a roadway only under the following circumstances:
         1.   While making a direct crossing of a roadway in a marked or
unmarked crosswalk;
         2.   Where no sidewalk is available;
         3.   Where a sidewalk is so obstructed as to prevent safe use;
         4.   When so directed by a traffic control device or by a peace
officer;
         5.   Temporarily in order to gain access to a motor vehicle; and
         6.   As provided in Subd. 7 below.
   Subd. 4.   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be
operated at any time on a roadway with a speed limit of more than 35 mph except
to make a direct crossing of the roadway in a marked crosswalk.
   Subd. 5.   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be
operated at any time while carrying more than one person.
   Subd. 6.   Designated exclusive city streets. The City Council may, by
resolution, designate exclusive city streets within its jurisdiction where the
operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices is not permitted;
provided that any street so designated has a speed limit of more than 35 mph.
   Subd. 7.   A person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device
on a sidewalk must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians at all times. A person
operating an electric personal assistive mobility device on a bicycle path must
yield the right-of-way to bicycles at all times.
   Subd. 8.   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be
operated unless the device bears reflectorized material on the front, back, and
wheels, visible at night from 600 feet when illuminated by the lower beams of
headlamps of a motor vehicle.
§ 632.04 Penalty.
All violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor offense.
SECTION 633: MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTERS
§ 633.01 Motorized Foot Scooter.
Means a device with handlebars designed to be stood or sat upon by the
operator, and powered by an internal combustion engine or electric motor that
is capable of propelling the device with or without human propulsion, and that
has no more than two 12-inch or smaller diameter wheels and has an engine or
motor that is capable of a maximum speed of 15 mph on a flat surface with not
more than 1% grade in any direction when the motor is engaged. An electric
personal assistive mobility device, a motorized bicycle, an electric-assisted
bicycle, or a motorcycle is not a motorized foot scooter.
§ 633.02 Operation.
   Subd. 1.   Operation of a motorized foot scooter on city bicycle paths,
bicycle lanes, bicycle trails, or bikeways is prohibited except as provided in
Subd. 2 below.
   Subd. 2.   Every person operating a motorized foot scooter shall have all
rights and duties applicable to the operator of a bicycle, except in respect to
those provisions relating expressly to motorized foot scooters and in respect
to those provisions of law that by their nature cannot reasonably be applied to
motorized foot scooters.
   Subd. 3.   No person may operate a motorized foot scooter upon a sidewalk,
except when necessary to enter or leave adjacent property. No person may
operate a motorized foot scooter that is carrying any person other than the
operator.
   Subd. 4.   No person under the age of 12 years may operate a motorized foot
scooter.
   Subd. 5.   No person under the age of 18 years may operate a motorized foot
scooter without wearing properly fitted and fastened protective headgear that
complies with standards established by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   Subd. 6.   A motorized foot scooter must be equipped with a headlight and a
taillight that comply with standards established by the Commissioner of Public
Safety if the vehicle is operated under conditions when vehicle lights are
required by law.
   Subd. 7.   A person operating a motorized foot scooter on a roadway shall
ride as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway,
except in the following situations:
         1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         2.   When preparing for a left turn, in which case the operator shall
stop and dismount at the right-hand curb or right edge of the roadway, and
shall complete the turn by crossing the roadway on foot, subject to
restrictions placed by law on pedestrians; or
         3.   When reasonably necessary to avoid impediments or conditions that
make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge, including, but
not limited to, fixed or moving objects, vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals, surface hazards, or narrow lanes.
§ 633.03 Penalty.
All violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor offense.
SECTION 634: MEDIUM SPEED ELECTRIC VEHICLES AND NEIGHBORHOOD ELECTRIC VEHICLES
§ 634.01 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Medium Speed Electric Vehicle. An electrically powered four-wheeled motor
vehicle, equipped with a roll cage or crushproof body design, that can attain a
maximum speed of 35 mph on a paved level surface, is fully enclosed and has at
least one door for entry, has a wheelbase of 40 inches or greater and a wheel
diameter of ten inches or greater, and except with respect to maximum speed,
otherwise meets or exceeds regulations in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500, as it may be
amended from time to time, and successor requirements.
Neighborhood Electric Vehicle. An electrically powered motor vehicle that has
three or four wheels, and has a speed attainable in one mile of at least 20
mph, but not more than 25 mph on a paved level surface.
§ 634.02 Operation.
   Subd. 1.   Operation of neighborhood electric vehicles on city streets is
prohibited except as provided in Subd. 2 below.
   Subd. 2.   The City Council may, by ordinance, designate exclusive city
streets within its jurisdiction where the operation of neighborhood electric
vehicles or medium-speed electric vehicles is permissible; provided that no
street so designated has a speed limit of more than 35 mph.
   Subd. 3.   A neighborhood electric vehicle or a medium-speed electric
vehicle may be operated on public streets and highways only if it meets all
equipment and vehicle safety requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 634.03 Authorized Operators.
Authorized city staff may operate city owned neighborhood electric vehicles and
medium-speed electric vehicles within the city on city streets, sidewalks,
trails, rights-of-way, and public property when conducting city business.
§ 634.04 Penalty.
All violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor offense.
SECTION 640: BICYCLES
§ 640.01 Regulations.
   Subd. 1.   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper
and shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the operator and
other persons upon the sidewalks, streets, and other public highways of the
city.
   Subd. 2.   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop
at all stop signs.
   Subd. 3.   No bicycle shall be permitted on any sidewalk, street or other
public highway of the city 30 minutes before sunrise and 30 minutes after
sunset of any day, without a headlight visible from the front thereof for not
less than 200 feet, indicating the approach or presence of the bicycle, firmly
attached to the bicycle and properly lighted. A red light or reflector shall be
attached to and visible from the rear of the bicycle.
   Subd. 4.   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or
other public highway in the city shall observe all traffic rules and
regulations applicable thereto, and shall turn only at intersections, signal
for turns, ride at the right side of the sidewalk, street, or highway, pass
slower moving vehicles and individuals to the left when overtaking, and shall
pass vehicles to the right when meeting.
   Subd. 5.   Electric-Assisted Bicycles as defined by M.S. § 169.011, subd.
27, as it may be amended from time to time, may be operated in the city
pursuant to and in accordance with M.S. § 169.222, subd. 6a, as it may be
amended from time to time. No person shall operate an “electric-assisted
bicycle” upon a sidewalk at any time, except when such operation is necessary
for the most direct access to a roadway from a driveway, alley, or building.
   Subd. 6.   Motorized Bicycles as defined by M.S. § 169.011, subd. 45, as it
may be amended from time to time, may be operated in the city pursuant to and
in accordance with M.S. § 169.223, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 5-8-2024)
§ 640.02 Penalty.
Anyone found in violation of this section shall be guilty of a petty
misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 7: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
      
700.   SIDEWALKS
      
710.   STREET OPENINGS
      
720.   STREET USE
      
730.   ASSESSMENT POLICY FOR PUBLIC INITIATED
Subsection
Section 700: Sidewalks
   
700.01   Clean Walks Required
Section 710: Street Openings
   
710.01   Permit Required
   
710.02   Financial Security
   
710.03   Restoration
Section 720: Street Use
   
720.01   Trash and Debris
   
720.02   Tractors or Other Types of Vehicles with Lugs
   
720.03   Load Limits
   
720.04   Trucks Operating on Residential Streets
   
720.05   Other Standards
   
720.06   Penalty
Section 730: Assessment Policy for Public Initiated Improvements
   
730.01   Deferral of Special Assessments
SECTION 700: SIDEWALKS
§ 700.01 Clean Walks Required.
The owner or occupant of any premises within the city shall clean the sidewalk
in front or beside the premises of snow and loose or melting ice within 24
hours of the end of the snowfall as provided in Chapter 5 of this Code.
SECTION 710: STREET OPENINGS
§ 710.01 Permit Required.
Any individual, firm, corporation, or other entity desiring to open, lay out,
or excavate in or upon any public street within the city shall file an
application for a permit therefor with the City Administrator and pay the
application fee as the City Council may from time to time prescribe. The permit
application shall be referred to the Director of Public Works, who shall
approve or disapprove issuance of the permit, or in circumstances he or she
deems proper, refer the application to the Council for final action.
§ 710.02 Financial Security.
Upon approval of an application, the applicant shall deposit with the city,
cash in the form of a certified check or a construction bond in the amount of
$5,000 as security for the proper restoration of the street to the condition
which it existed prior to the excavation. If cash is deposited as security, it
shall be held for a period of one year to guarantee the restoration work for a
period of one year. The applicant may then proceed to open up and excavate the
street.
§ 710.03 Restoration.
Restoration of the street shall be completed within 30 days after inspection
and approval of the construction by the Director of Public Works. If work is
not completed within the 30 days, the city may proceed to do the restoration
work, and the cost shall be deducted from the cash or a claim made against the
construction bond. If the restoration work done by the applicant needs repair
as determined by the Director of Public Works during the one year guaranty
period, the applicant shall do all necessary repair work, and in the event
applicant fails or refuses to do the necessary repair work, the city may do the
same, and the cost thereof deducted from the cash deposit or claim made against
the construction bond. To ensure proper restoration in cases deemed necessary
by the Director of Public Works, the city, at its option, may do all
restoration of the street, and the cost thereof shall be deducted from the cash
deposited with the city. In situations where the city opts to do restoration
work, the city shall require the cash deposit as the form of security. On
completion of the restoration of the site and the passing of the one year
guaranty period, the cash or the balance thereof remaining shall be refunded to
the applicant. In the event restoration costs shall exceed the amount of the
deposit, the applicant shall be liable for any additional costs.
SECTION 720: STREET USE
§ 720.01 Trash and Debris.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to burn any
sweepings, trash, lumber, leaves, straws, papers, grass, or other combustible
material upon any street or parking lot in the city. It shall also be unlawful
to scatter any debris of any kind upon the streets, and this section shall
apply to any materials left upon the streets caused by the overloading of any
truck or other vehicle.
§ 720.02 Tractors or Other Types of Vehicles with Lugs.
Tractors or other vehicles with lugs thereon, or any other type of farm
machinery that is not equipped with rubber tires, are hereby prohibited from
using the bituminous treated streets or parking lots in the city, and whomever
drives the vehicle upon the streets whereby the streets or parking lots shall
be damaged shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 720.03 Load Limits.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation to drive
any vehicle over the streets or parking lots having an axle weight load in
excess of the maximum limits established by state law for the type of vehicle
and road on which it is traveling. Any person, firm, or corporation wishing to
drive the vehicles in excess of the above-mentioned weight over any of the
streets of the city shall first apply to the City Council for their permission.
The City Council may designate certain streets to be used regularly by such
persons, firms, or corporations in the operation of their business, outlining
certain routes that the vehicles are to follow and that no deviation from such
routes shall be permissible. Any person, firm, or corporation having obtained
permission to exceed load limits shall repair any damage to any street or
parking lot caused by the extra weight at his, her, or their own expense.
§ 720.04 Trucks Operating on Residential Streets.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firms, or corporations to
operate a commercial truck on residential streets except those trucks that are
actually engaged in making deliveries or pick-ups at residential dwellings.
Further, he, she, or they shall utilize state highways or designated truck
routes as his, her, or their primary routes. Trucks making deliveries or pick-
ups on residential streets shall adhere to the provisions of this section.
Commercial trucks shall be any truck, other than pick-ups or vans, used for
business purposes such as deliveries or hauling cargo for profit.
§ 720.05 Other Standards.
In addition to the requirements of this chapter, all construction of streets,
sidewalks, and other related projects shall conform to such minimal standards
as from time to time adopted by the Council upon recommendation of the City
Engineer.
§ 720.06 Penalty.
Any person or persons, firms, or corporations who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
SECTION 730: ASSESSMENT POLICY FOR PUBLIC INITIATED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 730.01 Deferral of Special Assessments.
The City Council is authorized to approve the deferral of the payment of a
special assessment against a homestead property if the owner of the property
for which the assessment is deferred is:
         1.   Sixty-five years of age or older; or
         2.   Retired by virtue of a permanent and total disability.
            a.   In order to be eligible for the deferral, the annual household
adjusted gross income of the owner of the property shall not exceed an amount
to be set annually by the City Council by resolution.
            b.   The deferral shall exist only as long as the property owner
qualifies for the deferral, but not to exceed ten years.
            c.   Interest on the deferred special assessment shall accrue
during the deferral at the net interest rate of the improvement bond issue, as
stated in the official bond document, per annum. The City Council may require
current payment of interest as a condition of deferral. Accumulated interest
and the deferred payments shall become due and payable upon the occurrence of
any of the following events:
               i.   The death of the owner; provided the spouse is not eligible
for the benefits hereunder;
               ii.   The sale, transfer, or subdivision of the property or any
part thereof;
               iii.   If the property should for any reason lose its homestead
status; and
               iv.   If, for any reason, the City Council determines that there
would be no hardship to require immediate or partial payment.
            d.   The deferral of payment of special assessments may be ordered
by resolution of the City Council at the request of the property owner at any
time following adoption of the assessment role. The property owner shall
immediately notify the City Administrator’s office of the existence of any
change in status which may affect eligibility for deferral.
            e.   The deferral may be extended beyond the initial ten years upon
application of the property owner and approval by the City Council.
CHAPTER 8: MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
Section
      
800.   WATER WORKS
      
810.   PUBLIC SEWERS
      
820.   STORM WATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
      
830.   STREET LIGHT UTILITY SYSTEM
Subsection
Section 800: Water Works
   
800.01   Name
   
800.02   Director of Public Works
   
800.03   Director of Public Works Duties
   
800.04   Contract Assumed
   
800.05   Application for Service
   
800.06   Excavations
   
800.07   Connection Process
   
800.08   Water Connections
   
800.09   Maintenance
   
800.10   Inspection
   
800.11   Claims Against City
   
800.12   Turning Off Water
   
800.13   Hydrants
   
800.14   Private Use of Hydrants
   
800.15   Private Hydrants
   
800.16   Abutting and Benefitted Property
   
800.17   Request for Disconnection
   
800.18   Rates and Rents Assessed
   
800.19   Payment Dates
   
800.20   Discontinuance of Water Service
   
800.21   Rates and Rents
   
800.22   Enforcement
   
800.23   Violations
   
800.24   Changing Regulations
   
800.25   Base Fee for New Residential Structures
   
800.26   Testing of Meters
   
800.27   Water Use Restrictions; Penalties
Section 810: Public Sewers
   
810.01   Definitions
   
810.02   Required Use of Public Sewers
   
810.03   Private Sewage Disposal
   
810.04   Prohibited Discharges
   
810.05   Regulated Discharges
   
810.06   Response to Improper Discharge
   
810.07   Interceptors
   
810.08   Operation and Inspection
   
810.09   Testing
   
810.10   Industrial Waste
   
810.11   Building Sewers and Connections
   
810.12   Main and Lateral Sewer Construction
   
810.13   Protection from Damage
   
810.14   Sump Pumps
   
810.15   Backfilling
   
810.16   Authority of Inspectors
   
810.17   Rates
   
810.18   Billing Payment
   
810.19   Payment Dates
   
810.20   Violations
Section 820: Storm Water Drainage Utility
   
820.01   Name
   
820.02   Purpose
   
820.03   Definitions
   
820.04   Storm Water Drainage Fees
Section 830: Street Light Utility System
   
830.01   Authority and Purpose
   
830.02   Street Light Utility System
   
830.03   Cost of System
   
830.04   Certification of Unpaid Bills
   
830.05   Street Lighting Utility Funds
SECTION 800: WATER WORKS
§ 800.01 Name.
The water works of this city shall be under the supervision of the city’s
Public Works Director.
§ 800.02 Director of Public Works.
There is hereby continued the office of Director of Public Works, and the
Director of Public Works shall be subjected to control and direction of the
Council, who shall appoint the Director of Public Works.
§ 800.03 Director of Public Works Duties.
The Director of Public Works shall be charged with the following duties:
         1.   To install the water mains, pipes, and accessories as he or she
may be instructed to do by the Council and, if so directed by the Council,
under the supervision of the City Administrator; and
         2.   To perform such other works and duties as may be assigned to him
or her by the Council, or the City Administrator.
§ 800.04 Contract Assumed.
The rules, regulations, and water rates set forth in this chapter, or
authorized by this chapter, shall be considered a part of the contract with
every person who is supplied with water through the water works department
system of this city. Every person, by taking water, shall be considered as
expressing his or her consent to be bound thereby.
§ 800.05 Application for Service.
Every person desiring a supply of water shall make application in writing
therefor to the Director of Public Works on such form as may be prescribed for
that purpose. Blanks for such applications shall be furnished at the office of
the City Administrator or at the office of the Director of Public Works. The
application shall state fully the uses to which the water is to be applied. If
the applicant is not the owner of the premises, the written consent of the
owner must accompany the application. In all cases, the owner of the premises
shall be held responsible for all rates and rents of the premises. When more
than one tenant is supplied through one service pipe, the application for
supply of the premises shall be made by the owner, and the owner shall be held
responsible for all supplies through such service pipe, but one bill shall be
made for each meter installation.
§ 800.06 Excavations.
No person shall make any excavations in any street or highway within ten feet
of any laid water pipe while the ground is frozen, or dig up or uncover so as
to expose to the frost any water pipe or sewers of the city, except by
permission of the Council. No person shall make any excavation in any street or
highway, for the purpose of laying water pipe, or tap any water or surface pipe
laid down, without written permission from the Public Works Director, or the
Council, and all plumbing work required in a building, or for other purposes,
must be completed to the lines of the street, before any excavation shall be
made in the street for the purposes of connecting with the mains.
§ 800.07 Connection Process.
   Subd. 1.   Permit. Any person desiring to make connection to the city water
works system shall apply to the city for a permit for the connection, and if
the Public Works Director of the city or its agent grants such permission, then
an application shall be submitted and along with the application shall be
submitted plans, specifications, and other information as may be desired by the
Public Works Director together with a permit fee in the amount set by the
Council in the fee schedule adopted from time to time by the Council.
   Subd. 2.   Penalty. Any person, firm, or corporation who commences work of
any kind for which a permit is required under this chapter without first having
received the necessary permit shall, when subsequently securing the permit, be
required to pay double the fees provided by this chapter for the permit and
shall be subject to all the penal provisions of this chapter.
   Subd. 3.   License.
         1.   Permits shall only be issued when the applications show that the
work is to be done by the persons, firms, or corporations who have been duly
licensed to engage in the business of water installation within the city, and
who have paid the required fee and filed the bonds and insurance certificates
required under this chapter hereof.
         2.   Before any person, firm, or corporation shall be licensed to
engage in the business of water installation within the city, the person, firm,
or corporation shall make application to the city for a license, shall pay the
fee established by the Council in the fee schedule, and shall file with the
City Administrator the following bond and insurance requirements:
            a.   A surety bond in the face amount of $20,000 payable to the
city, approved by the City Council, conditioned that the city will be saved,
harmless of any loss, damage, cost, or expense, by reason of any work performed
under this chapter or by reason of improper or inadequate performance or
compliance with the terms of this chapter by holder of a license or his or her
agent or employees; and
            b.   A certificate of insurance or copies of public liability and
property damage insurance policies approved by the City Council containing a
provision that the bond shall not be canceled within ten days’ written notice
to the City Administrator, or showing coverages of not less than $50,000 for
injuries including accidental death to any one person and subject to the same
limit for each person in an amount of not less than $100,000 on account of any
one accident, and property damage insurance in the amount of not less than
$50,000.
         3.   The City Council may revoke any license at any time if the
licensee shall violate the provisions of this or any other chapter of the City
Code. No licensee shall allow his or her name to be used for any person for the
purpose of doing any work within the city pertaining to this chapter.
   Subd. 4.   Inspection. No permit shall be issued until the installation
shall be inspected by the Plumbing Inspector of the city and altered, if
necessary to conform to the State Plumbing Code, to the extent necessary to
permit a proper and safe connection to the municipal water system. Upon
completion of the work, a copy of the permit shall be signed and dated by the
individual making the water installation, and delivered to the City Hall, or
the Director of Public Works, or the Inspector. The Plumbing Inspector shall
sign the permit to show that the work and material conform to the City Code.
§ 800.08 Water Connections.
Water shall not be turned on to any building, or private service type, except
under the order in writing of the Public Works Director, or the Council, or the
City Administrator, until the applicant shall have paid for the connection from
the street mains to the street line in the amount as the Council may from time
to time establish in the fee schedule. Plumbers are strictly prohibited from
turning water into any service pipe except upon the order or permission of the
City Administrator or Public Works Director. This rule shall not be construed
to prevent any plumber from emitting water into test pipes for testing purposes
only.
§ 800.09 Maintenance.
All persons taking water shall keep their own service pipes, stop cocks, and
apparatus in good repair and protected from frost, at their own risk and
expense, from the water main through the end of the service pipe inside the
house or building. All persons taking water shall prevent any unnecessary waste
of water. All the expense relating to the introduction of water from the water
main into buildings of private premises shall be paid for by the owner.
§ 800.10 Inspection.
   Subd. 1.   Every person taking water shall permit the City Engineer, the
Director of Public Works, or their authorized designee and/or contractors to
enter their premises or buildings to examine the pipes and fixtures, and the
manner in which the water is used, and they must at all times, frankly and
without concealment, answer all questions put to them relative to its
consumption.
   Subd. 2.   Authorized meter readers and repair personnel shall have access
at reasonable hours of the day to all equipment connected with the city’s water
supply system in order to read meters, make inspections, and make repairs.
Authorized personnel will notify the building owner and/or occupants of the
need for access, and to establish an appointment time. Denial of such access
may result in water service being shut off at a premise.
   Subd. 3.   When repair or replacement of the city’s equipment is deemed
necessary by act or neglect of the owner and/or occupant of a premise, any city
expense caused thereby shall be a charge against, and collected from, the
property owner, and water service may be discontinued until the cause is
corrected and the city’s expenses are paid. Under certain situations, a payment
plan could be considered by the City Administrator or his or her designee. If a
payment plan is authorized by the city, all outstanding fees/costs associated
with the violation(s) must be paid in full within one year of the city
incurring the expense.
   Subd. 4.   When authorized city personnel are unable to access necessary
shut-off equipment due to the building owner and/or occupant’s personal
property impeding access to the city’s water supply system equipment, the
property owner will be notified that the personal property must be removed. If
access to the city’s water supply system equipment is not fully granted within
24 hours of the notice, the impeding personal property will be moved at the
owner’s expense.
§ 800.11 Claims Against City.
It is expressly stipulated by the city that no claim shall be made against it
by reason of breaking or freezing of any mains, service pipe, or service cocks,
nor if from any cause the supply of water should fail, nor from any other
purpose that may be deemed necessary. The right shall hereby be reserved to cut
off the supply of water at any time, for the purpose of repairs or any other
necessary purpose, any permit granted or regulation to the contrary
notwithstanding. Whenever it shall become necessary to shut off the water
supply within any district of the city, the Director of Public Works shall, if
practicable, give notice to each consumer within the city of the time when the
supply shall be shut off.
§ 800.12 Turning Off Water.
When the water has been turned off by the order of the Public Works Director or
City Administrator, no consumer or plumber shall turn it on without the written
consent of the Public Works Director or the City Administrator.
§ 800.13 Hydrants.
All hydrants erected within and by the city for fire extinguishing purposes
shall hereby be declared to be public hydrants. Except for the Director of
Public Works, no person other than members of the Fire Department of the city,
and then only for the uses and purposes of the Department, shall open any
hydrant, or remove, or attempt to remove therefrom any matter or thing
designated or intended for the protection of the hydrant or in any manner
interfere or intermeddle with any hydrant. The Public Works Director of the
city or its agent may grant any suitable person permission to open any hydrant,
and draw water therefrom, in which event, such person shall not open the
hydrant to any greater extent, nor keep the hydrant open any greater length of
time, nor draw water therefrom for any other purpose, not in any greater
quantity than as may be specified in the permit. No person authorized to open
hydrants shall delegate his or her authority to another nor let out or permit
any person to take the wrenches furnished him or her, nor permit the wrenches
to be taken from any house of the city, except for purposes strictly connected
with the Fire Department, or as they accompany firefighting equipment at fires.
§ 800.14 Private Use of Hydrants.
No hydrants, except public drinking fountains, shall be placed within the
limits of any streets, unless such hydrants are securely closed and protected
against general use, and no drinking fountain shall be erected for public use
which have openings by which they can be used as a source of domestic supply.
§ 800.15 Private Hydrants.
If proprietors of lumber yards, manufacturing establishments, halls, stores,
elevators, warehouses, hotels, or public buildings, who are regular customers
of the water works, wish to lay large pipes with hydrants and hoses couplings
to be used only in the case of fire, they shall be permitted to connect with
street mains at their own expense, upon application to the City Council, and
under its direction. The customers shall be allowed the use of water for fire
purposes only, free of charge, but all valves admitting water to the pipes must
be sealed, for which a sealing charge in the amount set in the fee schedule
shall be made. If the sealing is, at any time, broken or defaced, the Public
Works Director or the City Council shall be notified immediately.
§ 800.16 Abutting and Benefitted Property.
When petitions shall be granted by the City Council for the extension of water
mains or the water system, the City Council shall assess the abutting property
or benefitted area for all or a portion of the cost of the improvement pursuant
to the Minnesota Statutes.
§ 800.17 Request for Disconnection.
Any person wishing to discontinue the supply of water from the city water works
or desiring a change in his or her application as to change of premises or
otherwise, must give notice thereof at the office of the Director of Public
Works or the City Administrator at least five days previous to such change.
§ 800.18 Rates and Rents Assessed.
All rates and rents for water consumption shall be charged directly to the
owner of the real estate on which the water shall be consumed and billings paid
by owners within 30 days after period of consumption. Bills shall be paid
promptly when due at the office of the City Administrator or to the utility
billing contractor. The City Administrator shall, in case bills are not paid
when due, add a penalty identified in the city fee schedule to the amount of
the bills and collect the bills. In case of a failure to pay the bills by the
fourth month, notice shall be given by mail to the owner of the real estate
upon which the water has been consumed, and if, the bill shall not have been
paid, the amount of the bill shall be certified to the County Auditor, to be
included with the taxes against the real estate involved and to be collected
therewith. In addition, after notice to the owner and resident of the premises,
the city may proceed with shutting off the water supply to the premises as
provided in subsection 800.20.
§ 800.19 Payment Dates.
All rates and rents shall be payable when due. The rates and rents for users of
the city shall be due monthly.
§ 800.20 Discontinuance of Water Service.
   Subd. 1.   Non-Payment. If rates or rents are not paid within 30 days after
they become due, the city, upon recommendation from the Public Works Director,
may order the water shut off; and it shall not be turned on again until the
bills, together with a fee as set in the fee schedule for the cost of turning
off the service, and an additional fee is paid to turn on the water. No water
shall be shut off until the owner and/or tenant shall have been given notice
and a chance to be heard. No water shall be shut off from October 15 until the
following April 15 if part of the premises’s primary heat source except in
compliance with the Cold Weather Rule, M.S. § 216B.097, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   Subd. 2.   Vacated Properties. The purpose of this subdivision is to prevent
property loss and strain on city water and sewer systems caused by unattended
water use in vacant residential units. A residential unit in which the occupant
has vacated with no intent to return is considered vacant for purposes of this
section. A residential unit in which the occupant is absent for an extended
period of time but intends to return on a date certain is not vacant. Water
service shall not be shut off, except in the case of an emergency, at a vacant
property until the owner or tenant, if the city is aware of a landlord-tenant
relationship, has been sent a notice by first class mail. The notice shall
state that the city has reasonable belief that the premises served is vacant
and that if the owner or tenant does not respond within ten days that the
residential unit is supplied with adequate heat, the city may order the water
shut off, and it shall not be turned on again until the water shut off charge
and water turn on charge as set in the fee schedule have been paid, unless the
charges are waived by the City Council.
§ 800.21 Rates and Rents.
Water rates established by the City Council for metered water service shall be
as set out in the fee schedule.
§ 800.22 Enforcement.
Each police officer shall report to the head of the Public Works Director all
cases of leakage, waste, or unnecessary profusion in the use of water, and each
violation of any law of this city relative to the water works thereof, which
may come to his or her knowledge or notice, and the police shall each enforce
the observation of this chapter so far as any of them have authority under the
laws of this city.
§ 800.23 Violations.
   Subd. 1.   General. Whenever the rules and regulations of this chapter are
violated, the water shall be shut off, subject to the limitations of this
chapter. If two or more parties are receiving water from the same service pipe,
the meter of the party involved in the violation shall be removed from service,
and not installed again except by the order of the City Engineer, the Director
of Public Works, or their authorized designee and/or contractors, and must be
current on payment of all arrears of all rates and rents, together with a fee
as set forth in the city’s adopted fee schedule for removing and reinstallation
of the meter. If, for any reason, digging is required to shut off service, curb
stop charges shall be proportionate to the costs.
   Subd. 2.   Unlawful Acts.
         1.   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, mar, deface, disturb, or in any way interfere with any buildings,
attachments, machinery, apparatus, equipment, fixture, or appurtenance of any
municipal utility or municipal utility system or commit any act tending to
obstruct or impair the use of any municipal utility of any use.
         2.   It is unlawful for any person to make any connection with,
opening into, use, or alter in any way any municipal utility system without
first having applied for and received written permission to do so from the
city.
         3.   It is unlawful for any person to turn on or connect a utility
when the same has been turned off or disconnected by the city for non-payment
of a bill, or for any other reason, without first having obtained a permit to
do so from the city.
         4.   It is unlawful for any person to “jumper” or by any means or
device, fully or partially tamper with or circumvent a municipal utility meter,
or to knowingly use or consume unmetered utilities or use the services of any
utility system, the use of which the proper billing authorities have no
knowledge of.
   Subd. 3.   Fees and Penalties. If any person is found to be in violation of
any of the above unlawful acts, they may also be charged with theft of services
or damage to property. Depending on the total cost of damages and/or theft, the
charges could range from a misdemeanor, a gross misdemeanor, or a felony.
§ 800.24 Changing Regulations.
The right shall be reserved by the City Council to change the rules,
regulations, and water rates from time to time, as they deem it advisable, and
to the Public Works Director to make special rates and contracts in all special
cases.
§ 800.25 Base Fee for New Residential Structures.
For new residential structures, the City Council will set a fee each year to
charge new residential structures.
§ 800.26 Testing of Meters.
When a consumer makes a complaint that the bill of any past services has been
excessive, the city shall, upon written request, have such meter re-read. If
the consumer remains dissatisfied and desires that the meter be tested, said
consumer shall then make a deposit of $150 and the city shall test the meter.
The consumer shall, if he or she so desires, be present when such test is made.
In case a test should show an error of over 5% of the water consumed in favor
of the city, the deposit will be refunded to the consumer, and a correctly
registering meter will be installed, and the date of the written request and
the minimum charge shall not be affected. In case the test shows an accurate
measurement of water or an error in favor of the consumer, the amount deposited
shall be retained by the city to cover the expenses of making such test.
§ 800.27 Water Use Restrictions; Penalties.
In order to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of
the city, the following regulations shall apply.
   Subd. 1.   Definition. For the purpose of this subsection, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
Water Shortage. The city’s production of water is less than the consumption of
water by users so that the municipal water supply is less than the minimal
levels necessary to adequately provide fire protection for the city and potable
water for the residents’ drinking and sanitary needs.
   Subd. 2.   Permanent Restrictions on Sprinkling.
         1.   Use of the city water supply system for lawn or garden sprinkling
or other irrigation shall be limited to an odd-even schedule. Odd-numbered
addresses shall water only on odd-numbered days. Even-numbered addresses shall
water only on even-numbered days. Multi-family residences, businesses with
multiple addresses, and properties without an apparent address shall water on
odd-numbered days.
         2.   These permanent restrictions on sprinkling shall not apply to the
watering of new seed or sod, new landscaping, or any other plant materials that
require daily watering, including, but not limited to, golf greens and tees,
and athletic fields with special soil conditions. Properties with automatic
irrigation systems that cannot water the entire property within a single day
under the permanent restrictions may, after notifying the city in advance,
water half the property each day.
   Subd. 3.   Notification of Water Shortage. Whenever a water shortage exists,
the City Administrator may notify users of the municipal water system that
additional use restrictions are being implemented. The notice shall be posted
on the city’s bulletin board, official city website, government cable channel,
may be published in the newspaper of general circulation within the city, and
may be broadcast by television and radio stations. The notice shall include the
following information:
         1.   Uses of the municipal water system which will be restricted;
         2.   Times during which the restrictions will apply;
         3.   Whether the use restrictions will be absolute or vary depending
upon location or identification of property;
         4.   When the restrictions will be implemented and when they will
terminate; and
         5.   Fees and penalties for non-compliance.
   Subd. 4.   Fees and Penalties. One or more of the following may be imposed
for violating water restrictions:
         1.   Fees for violating water usage restrictions shall be added to the
water bill of the offending property according to the following schedule:
            a.   First violation within a calendar year: warning only;
            b.   Second violation within a calendar year: $25;
            c.   Third violation within a calendar year: $50;
            d.   Fourth violation within a calendar year: $100; and
            e.   Fifth violation within a calendar year: $250.
         2.   Failure to comply with water usage restrictions may constitute
cause for the discontinuance of water service.
         3.   Failure to comply with water usage restrictions shall be a
misdemeanor punishable by the maximum time allowed by law for each offense.
SECTION 810: PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 810.01 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C expressed in milligrams per liter. Laboratory procedures
shall be in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater.
Building Drain. That part of the lower horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from, waste, and other sanitary drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building Sewer. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called house connection.
City. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city, as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
The term “city,” when used herein, may also be used to refer to the City
Council and its authorized representatives.
COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the chemical
oxidation of organic matter, expressed in milligrams per liter, as determined
in accordance with standard laboratory procedures as set out in the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
Combined Sewer. A sewer originally designated to receive both surface water
runoff and sewage.
Garbage. Solid waste resulting from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage, or sale of
meat, fish, fowl, fruit, vegetable, or condemned food.
Industrial Wastes. The solid, liquid, or gaseous wastes resulting from
industrial or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the
development, recovery, or processing of natural resources.
Natural Outlet. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface or groundwater.
Normal Domestic Strength Wastes. Wastes which are characterized by a per capita
discharge of 100 gallons per day at a loading of 300 mg per liter BOD, and 250
mg per liter suspended solids.
NPDES Permit (National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit). The
system for issuing, conditioning and denying permits for the discharge of
pollutants from point sources into the navigable waters, the contiguous zone,
and the oceans by the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, §§ 402 and 405, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342
and 1345, respectively, as it may be amended from time to time.
Other Wastes. Garbage, municipal refuse, decayed wood, sawdust, shavings, bark,
lime, sand, ashes, oil tar, chemicals, offal, and other substances, except
sewage and other wastes.
Person. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
municipal corporation, governmental unit, or group.
pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
Process Water. Any water used in the manufacturing, preparation or production
of goods, materials, or food. Process water is an industrial waste.
Sanitary Sewer. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface, and
groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
Sanitary Waste. The liquid and water carried wastes discharged from sanitary
plumbing facilities.
Sewage or Wastewater. The water carried waste products from residences, public
buildings, institutions, industrial establishments, or other buildings
including the excrementitious or other discharge from the bodies of human
beings or animals.
Sewer. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage, industrial wastes, or other waste
liquids.
Sewer System. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, force mains, and all
other devices and appliances appurtenant thereto, used for collecting or
conducting sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes to a point of ultimate
disposal.
Shall/May. “Shall” shall mean mandatory. “May” shall mean permissive.
Slug. Any discharge of water, wastewater, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during the normal operation.
Storm Sewer. Sometimes termed “storm drain,” shall mean a sewer which carries
storm or surface water and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial waste,
other than unpolluted cooling or process water.
Suspended Solids. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Method
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
Unpolluted Water. Clean water uncontaminated by industrial wastes, other
wastes, or any substance which renders such water unclean or noxious or impure
so as to be actually or potentially harmful or detrimental, or injurious to
public health, safety, or welfare to domestic, commercial, industrial, or
recreational uses; or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish, or other aquatic
life.
Wastewater Facilities. The structures, equipment, or processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
Wastewater Treatment Works or Treatment Works. An arrangement of devices and
structures for treatment of wastewater, industrial waste, and sludge, sometimes
used as synonymous for “wastewater treatment plant” or “waste treatment plant”
or “water pollution control plant” or “sewage treatment plant.”
§ 810.02 Required Use of Public Sewers.
   Subd. 1.   Unlawful Discharge. It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the city or any area under the jurisdiction of the city
any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this section.
   Subd. 2.   Privies. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage if adequate and feasible
city facilities are available.
   Subd. 3.   Mandatory Connection. The owner of any building or property which
is located within the city and from which wastewater is discharged, shall be
required to connect to a public sewer at his or her expense within 18 months of
the date the public sewer is operational. All properties proposed to be served
shall be served. All future buildings constructed on property adjacent to the
public sewer shall be required to immediately connect to the public sewer. If
sewer connections are not being made pursuant to this section, an official 90-
day notice shall be served instructing the affected property owner to make the
required connection.
   Subd. 4.   Failure to Connect. In the event an owner shall fail to connect
to a public sewer in compliance with a notice given under this section, the
city may undertake to have the connection made and shall assess the cost
thereof against the benefited property. The assessment shall be a lien against
the property. The assessment, when levied, shall bear interest at the maximum
legal rate for local improvements and shall be certified to the County Auditor
and shall be collected and remitted to the city in the same manner as
assessments for local improvements. The rights of the city shall be in addition
to any remedial or enforcement provisions of this section.
   Subd. 5.   Exceptions. New connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be
prohibited unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream
facilities, including, but not limited to, capacity for flow, BOD, and
suspended solids.
§ 810.03 Private Sewage Disposal.
   Subd. 1.   When Allowed. Where a public sanitary sewer is not available
under the provisions of this section, the building sewer shall be connected to
a private sewage disposal system complying with the rules and regulations of
the city, state, and Pollution Control Agency.
   Subd. 2.   Construction. No new private sewer systems or sewer system
extensions shall be constructed within the city without first obtaining written
approval of the system plan and the materials to be used in the construction of
the system, designed by a designer licensed by the State Pollution Control
Agency.
§ 810.04 Prohibited Discharges.
   Subd. 1.   Unpolluted Waters. No person, firm, or corporation shall
discharge or cause to be discharged directly or indirectly any storm water,
groundwater, roof runoff, yard drainage, yard fountain water, pond or pool
overflow, subsurface drainage, waste from on-site disposal systems, unpolluted
cooling or processing water to any sanitary sewer except as permitted by the
city or other local unit government. Storm water and all other unpolluted
discharged to a storm sewer, if available, except that unpolluted cooling or
processing water shall only be so discharged upon approval by the city or other
unit of local government.
   Subd. 2.   Foreign or Hazardous Substances.
         1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
         2.   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the wastewater treatment works;
         3.   Any water or waste having a pH lower than five and one-half or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater treatment works;
         4.   Solid or viscous substances, either whole or ground, in
quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the
sewers, or other interference with the proper continuation of the wastewater
facilities but not limited to ashes, cinders, disposable diapers, glass
grinding or polishing wastes, stone cuttings or polishing wastes, sand, mud,
straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground
garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, sanitary
napkins, paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and other paper products; and
         5.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or substances which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance or repairs.
§ 810.05 Regulated Discharges.
   Subd. 1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, the following described substances to any public sewer unless, in
the opinion of the city, the discharge will not harm the wastewater facilities,
nor cause obstruction to the flow in sewers, nor otherwise endanger life, limb,
or public property, nor constitute a nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the
acceptability of the wastes, the city may give consideration to such factors as
the relation of flows and velocities in the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, capacity of the sewage plant, the city’s NPDES permit, and
other pertinent determinations either on a general basis or as to discharges
from individual users or specific discharges, and may prohibit certain
discharges from individual users because of unusual concentrations or
combinations which may occur.
   Subd. 2.   The substances restricted shall be:
         1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature in excess of 150°F
(65°C);
         2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg per liter or containing substances which
may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
         3.   Any garbage that has not been ground or comminuted to such degree
that all particles will be carried freely in suspension under flows normally
prevailing in the public sewers, with no particles greater than one-half inch
in any dimension;
         4.   Any water or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
         5.   Any water or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances which constitute a nuisance or hazard to the structures,
equipment, or personnel of the sewage works, or which interfere with the
treatment required to meet the requirements of the state or federal government,
or any other public agency with proper authority to regulate the discharge from
the sewage treatment plant;
         6.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration that they are not in compliance with regulations issued by the
appropriate authority having control over their use or may cause damage or
hazards to the treatment works or personnel operating it;
         7.   Any water or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and one-half;
and
         8.   Materials which exert or cause:
            a.   Unusual concentrations of suspended solids, (such as, but not
limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium sulfate);
            b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the wastewater
treatment works;
            d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
a slug; or
            e.   Water or water containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of the NPDES permit, or requirements of
other governmental agencies having jurisdiction over discharge from the sewage
treatment plant.
§ 810.06 Response to Improper Discharge.
If any water or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged,
directly or indirectly to the public sewers, which water or wastes do not meet
the standards set out in or promulgated under this section, or which, in the
jurisdiction of the city, may have a deleterious effect upon the treatment
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life, or constitute a public nuisance, the city may take all or any
of the following steps:
         1.   Refuse to accept the discharges;
         2.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
         3.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for the discharge
to the public sewers. The design and installation of the plant and equipment
for pretreatment of equalization of flows shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city, and subject to the requirements of 40 C.F.R. part 403,
entitled “General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of
Pollution,” and the State Pollution Control Agency; and/or
         4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling or treating
the wastes.
§ 810.07 Interceptors.
Grease, oil, and mud interceptors shall be provided when they are necessary for
the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive
amounts, as specified in this section, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the city and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
§ 810.08 Operation and Inspection.
Where preliminary treatment flow equalization or interceptors are required for
any water or waste, they shall be effectively operated and maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective condition by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be available for inspection by the city at all reasonable
times.
§ 810.09 Testing.
   Subd. 1.   Required. When required by the city, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control structure together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such structure and equipment, when required, shall
be constructed at the owner’s expense in accordance with plans approved by the
city and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at
all times.
   Subd. 2.   Standards. All measurements, tests, and analyses of the
characteristics of water and waste to which reference is made in this section
shall be determined in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136 “Guidelines
Establishing Test Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants”; the latest
edition of Standard Methods For the Examination Of Water and Wastewater, and
shall be determined at the control structure provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control structure. In the event that no special structure has been
required, the control structure shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer from the point at which the building
sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted
methods to reflect the effluent constituents and their effect upon the
treatment works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, health, and
property. Sampling methods location, times, duration, and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the city.
§ 810.10 Industrial Waste.
   Subd. 1.   General. The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall, at the discretion of the city, be required to
provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of waters or wastes to
illustrate compliance with this section and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type, and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and local standards are
being met. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and
reporting required by the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city
reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside
laboratory.
   Subd. 2.   Special Agreement. No statement contained in this section shall
be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the
city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength
or character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment
therefor by the industrial concern, in accordance with applicable ordinances
and any supplemental agreements with the city.
§ 810.11 Building Sewers and Connections.
   Subd. 1.   Private Sewer Lines.
         1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the work or
business of installing private sewer service lines and appurtenances for others
without a license therefor from the city.
         2.   Any person desiring to engage in such work shall make application
to the city on forms to be supplied by the city together with a fee in the
amount set out in the fee schedule. All licenses issued shall be for one
calendar year only, and each renewal shall be made by application together with
the annual fee as established in the fee schedule.
         3.   Each applicant for license shall sign an agreement on such form
as may be delivered by the city agreeing to pay the city the actual cost of
repair for any damage caused to the city sewer system by the applicant, or by
any of his or her employees or agents. This agreement shall accompany the
license application.
         4.   Each applicant shall accompany his or her application with a
certificate of insurance in a company acceptable to the city showing public
liability insurance coverage with limits of at least $100,000 per person,
$300,000 per occupance, and $100,000 for property damage. The certificate shall
specifically state that the insurance covers underground construction
operations and shall contain a provision that the coverage afforded under the
policies shall not be canceled or materially changed until at least 15 days’
prior written notice has been given to the city.
   Subd. 2.   Connection to City Sanitary Sewer. No person, unless authorized
by a written permit from the city, shall make, install, repair, alter, disturb,
uncover, open, or break any sewer connection to the sanitary sewer system of
the city. Permits for connection of a new sewer service or repairs to an
existing service shall be issued by the city after consideration of the
application for the permit with regard to compliance with other subsections of
this section. Permits shall be issued in the following manner.
         1.   Application for a permit to perform work on a sewer service
connection within the city shall be made on a form supplied by the city by the
person or firm who will be performing the work to the city along with a fee as
set in the fee schedule for the installation of a new connection. The city may
waive the fee requirements for repair work. The person or firm performing the
work shall be licensed to perform such work by the city.
         2.   After approval of the permit application by the city, the
applicant shall furnish to the city a performance bond in the amount of $5,000.
The performance bond shall be for the good and faithful performance of all work
on public property relative to the work being performed. The bond shall be
payable to the city. The bond shall warrant the work for a period of one year
from the date of completion.
         3.   The city shall issue a permit for the work after the application
is approved and the bond is received, and in all instances where the property
or parcel was not assessed for a residential equivalency charge for Project
1976 1, which assessment roll was adopted by the Council September 9, 1981,
after payment of such other sum as the Council may from time to time establish
in the fee schedule the payment being in lieu of the REC assessment.
   Subd. 3.   Costs. All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and
connection of the building sewer or repairs to an existing connection shall be
borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify and hold harmless the city from
any loss or damage to the public sewer that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   Subd. 4.   Independent Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building except where two or more buildings are
situated on one parcel such that the parcel may not be subdivided. A joint use
private sewer may be extended to the rear building or buildings and the whole
considered as one joint use private sewer, provided the buildings are the
property of a single owner. Special variances will be considered by the city.
   Subd. 5.   Old Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they shall be found, upon examination and testing by
the city, to meet all requirements of this section.
   Subd. 6.   Standards. The size, slope, alignment, and materials of
construction of a building sewer and the method used in excavating, placing of
the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to
the requirements of the Building Code and Plumbing Code or other applicable
rules and regulations. In the absence of code provisions, or in amplifications
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the “Water Pollution Control Federation (W.P.C.F.) Manual of Practice No. 9”
and the American Society for Testing Materials (A.S.T.M.) Standards shall
apply.
   Subd. 7.   Elevation. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought
to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in
which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
the building drain shall be provided with a lifting device by an approved means
and discharged to the building sewer.
   Subd. 8.   Illegal Cross-Connections. No person shall make connection of
roof downspouts, roof drains, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, sump
pumps, drain tile, swimming pool discharge, or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer, nor shall any such
connection be made directly to the sanitary sewer system. All illegal cross-
connections shall be disconnected by the owner within two weeks of receiving
notice of the unlawful connection from the city, and if the owner shall fail to
make the disconnection, the city shall disconnect the illegal cross-connection
and assess the costs back to the property. Cross-connections may be allowed
where storm water or groundwater discharge would create a safety hazard during
freezing weather. Exceptions shall be granted on a case by case basis as
determined by the Council.
   Subd. 9.   Plumbing Code. The construction of the building sewer and its
connection into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State
Plumbing Code, the sewer specifications included herein, and other applicable
rules and regulations and procedures adopted by the city. All such construction
shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed
procedures and materials must be approved by the city prior to installation.
   Subd. 10.   Inspection. Employees of the city shall be allowed to inspect
the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the city when the work is ready for final inspection, and
no underground portions shall be covered before the final inspection is
complete. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the city or its
representative.
   Subd. 11.   Excavations. All excavations for building sewer installations
shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the
public from hazards. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property
disturbed during the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city.
§ 810.12 Main and Lateral Sewer Construction.
   Subd. 1.   Authorized Personnel. No person, unless authorized, shall
uncover, make any connection with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any
sanitary or storm sewer within the city or any part of the city wastewater
facilities.
   Subd. 2.   Sanitary and Storm Construction. No sanitary or storm sewers
shall be constructed in the city (except house or building service sewers)
except by the city or by others in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by a professional engineer. No such sewers shall be constructed or
considered to be part of the public sewer system unless accepted by the city.
   Subd. 3.   Standards. The size, slope, alignment, material of construction,
methods to be used in excavation, placing of pipe, jointing, testing,
backfilling, and other work connected with the construction of sewers shall
conform to the requirements of the city.
§ 810.13 Protection from Damage.
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities.
§ 810.14 Sump Pumps.
All sump pumps shall have a discharge pipe installed to the outside wall of the
building with one-inch minimum diameter, with union or other couplings for easy
pump disconnection or repair and replacement. The pipe attachments shall be
rigid and permanent. The discharge shall extend at least three feet outside of
the foundation wall and shall be directed toward the front or rear yards of the
property. All new construction having a sump basket shall have permanent piping
installed to the sump basket with permanent fittings and discharged to the
outside of the foundation wall as described in this section. Such work shall be
completed prior to the final building inspection and issuance of a certificate
of occupancy.
§ 810.15 Backfilling.
It shall be recommended that unused septic tanks, cesspools, leaching pits, and
similar devices and structures shall be backfilled or made safe and unusable in
a manner acceptable to the city.
§ 810.16 Authority of Inspectors.
   Subd. 1.   Entering Property. Duly authorized employees of the city shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
confirmation that illegal connections are not present, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this section. Those employees
shall have no authority to inquire into processes including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries except as is
necessary to determine the kind and source of the discharge to the public
sewer. Each property may be inspected at least once per year, even if found in
compliance.
   Subd. 2.   Safety Rules. While performing the necessary work on private
property as referred to in Subd. 1 above, the authorized employees of the city
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises.
   Subd. 3.   Easements. Duly authorized employees of the city shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds
easements for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
maintenance, and construction of public sewers.
   Subd. 4.   Surcharge. Any person refusing to allow their property to be
inspected shall be subject to a surcharge as provided in the city fee schedule.
The surcharge shall in no way restrict the city’s right to seek an injunction
in court ordering the necessary connections or disconnections to the sewer
system, or from pursuing any other legal remedy.
§ 810.17 Rates.
Sewer rates shall be as established by the City Council in the fee schedule.
§ 810.18 Billing Payment.
All rates and rents for sewer use shall be charged directly to the owner of the
real estate on which the sewer use occurred and billings paid by owners within
30 days after period of use. Bills shall be paid promptly when due at the
office of the City Administrator or to the utility billing contractor. The City
Administrator shall, in case bills are not paid when due, add a penalty
identified in the city fee schedule to the amount of the bills and collect the
bills. In case of a failure to pay the bills by the fourth month, notice shall
be given by mail to the owner of the real estate upon which the sewer use
occurred, and if the bill shall not have been paid, the amount of the bill
shall be certified to the County Auditor, to be included with the taxes against
the real estate involved and to be collected therewith. In addition, after
notice to the owner and resident of the premises, the city may proceed with
shutting off the water supply to the premises as provided in subsection
800.20.
(Ord. 2004-31, passed 10-27-2004)
§ 810.19 Payment Dates.
The rates and rents shall be payable when due. The rates and rents for users of
the city shall be due monthly.
(Ord. 2004-31, passed 10-27-2004)
§ 810.20 Violations.
   Subd. 1.   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this section
shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the time period stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   Subd. 2.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in the written notice shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day
in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   Subd. 3.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of the violation.
SECTION 820: STORM WATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
§ 820.01 Name.
This utility shall be called the storm water drainage utility in and for the
city. The storm water drainage utility shall be operated as a public utility
pursuant to the City Charter, City Code, and applicable statutes. The revenues
there from shall be derived subject to the provisions of this section and M.S.
Chapter 444, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 820.02 Purpose.
The purpose of the storm water drainage utility is to manage and fund the
construction and maintenance of the storm water drainage system in the city.
The storm water drainage utility will not be established for the purpose of
financing past due debt or generating a return on investment for the city.
§ 820.03 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Administrative. Administrative costs as associated with acquiring and
maintaining the necessary contour maps which define the watershed in and for
the city. Also included shall be periodic planning and engineering studies
which shall determine the adequacy and condition of the storm sewer drainage
system.
Construction. The improvements to the storm water system in areas not
previously served with lateral and trunk lines.
Developed Land. Land which has been platted. “Undeveloped land” is any land
which has not been platted.
Maintenance. Shall include direct and indirect costs as well as equipment costs
for repairs and cleaning. Cleaning includes catch basin cleaning, jetting,
thawing pipes, and any other operation which assures a dependable drainage
system. It shall also include the administrative costs.
Reconstruction. The improvements made to the storm water drainage system in
areas previously served with lateral and trunk lines.
§ 820.04 Storm Water Drainage Fees.
   Subd. 1.   Billing Schedule. Storm water drainage fees for each land parcel
shall be implemented as part of the typical utility billing schedule, which is
on a monthly basis.
   Subd. 2.   Rate Schedule. The rate schedule shall be as shown on the city
fee schedule in Appendix A of this code.
   Subd. 3.   Revisions.
         1.   The fees may be changed semi-annually to match the current city
storm water operations and maintenance budget for the storm sewer system.
         2.   If the city finds that any parcel is improperly represented
relative to land use and zoning, the City Council, may, by passing a simple
majority resolution, change the utility fee of the parcel by correcting the
zoning description used in the calculation regardless of the actual designation
described by the current zoning map. For example, if a parcel is authorized
through a conditional use permit, to place multiple housing units in an R-
2 zone, the city may correct the inadequate description to a more
representative “zoning code” within the billing schedule.
   Subd. 4.   Land Use Exemptions. The following land uses are exempt from
storm water drainage fees: public rights-of-way, municipal property being used
for public service, city parks, and parkland areas.
   Subd. 5.   Undeveloped Land. Undeveloped commercial and industrial land
shall be excluded from the storm water drainage fee until public right-of-way
has been platted and storm sewer improvements are made.
   Subd. 6.   Undeveloped Platted Residential Lots. Undeveloped platted
residential lots shall not be charged a fee until the water and sewer hookups
have been made and sewer and water utility fees begin.
   Subd. 7.   Recalculation of Fees. If a property owner or person responsible
for paying the storm water drainage fee, questions the correctness of an
invoice for such charge, such person may have the determination of the charge
recomputed by written request to the city. The request must be received by the
city within 12 months of the city mailing the invoice to the property owner.
The property owner may appeal the decision to the City Council by filing a
written notice of appeal with the city within 60 days of the city’s
determination.
   Subd. 8.   Certification of Past Due Fees on Taxes. Any past due storm water
drainage fees in excess of 90 days past due on October 1 of any year, may be
certified to the County Auditor for collection with real estate taxes in the
following year pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time. In addition, the city shall have the right to bring a civil
action or to take other legal remedies to collect unpaid fees.
SECTION 830: STREET LIGHT UTILITY SYSTEM
§ 830.01 Authority and Purpose.
M.S. § 429.021, as it may be amended from time to time, authorizes cities to
install, replace, extend, and maintain street lights and street lighting
systems and special lighting systems. The City Council has determined that, in
order to promote the general health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the
city, it is in the best interest of the citizens that the city operate and
maintain a city street lighting utility system and has further determined that
the operation and maintenance of such utility benefits each and every property
within the city. The City Council has therefore determined that it is fair,
appropriate, and reasonable that the costs of such operation and maintenance be
paid on a fair and reasonable basis by all of the property in the city so
benefitted and the cost should be charged and collected from all such
benefitted property, except for those exempted in subsection 830.03, Subd. 4.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 12-11-2013)
§ 830.02 Street Light Utility System.
A city street lighting utility system is hereby established and continued. The
utility system consists of all street lighting, whether owned by the city or
otherwise, for which the city purchases and supplies electrical energy from a
public utility and any additional facilities acquired or operated by the city
in the future. The operation of such utility shall be under the supervision of
the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 12-11-2013)
§ 830.03 Cost of System.
   Subd. 1.   Costs. The cost of the street lighting utility system are the
administrative costs, capital costs, maintenance, and energy costs associated
with the operation of the street lighting utility system.
   Subd. 2.   Fees. The City Council shall, by ordinance, establish a fee
schedule to pay for the cost of the street lighting utility system. The City
Council shall apportion the cost of the system against all developed property
in the city. Residential property shall be charged based upon a per-unit charge
and all other property shall be charged based upon a front foot charge.
   Subd. 3.   Billing. Street lighting fees shall be billed with water and
sewer utility bills.
   Subd. 4.   Exemptions. The following land uses are exempt from any fees for
street lighting costs:
         1.   Public street right-of-way;
         2.   City-owned land;
         3.   Railroad right-of-way;
         4.   Cemeteries; and
         5.   Undeveloped property.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 12-11-2013)
§ 830.04 Certification of Unpaid Bills.
Any street lighting service charges in excess of 90 days past due on October 1
of any year may be certified to the county for collection with real estate
taxes as a special assessment. An administrative charge of $25 shall be added
to each street lighting service charge so certified. In addition, the city may
bring a civil action or to take other legal remedies to collect unpaid charges.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 12-11-2013)
§ 830.05 Street Lighting Utility Fund.
All fees and assessments received pursuant to this section shall be placed in a
dedicated fund for the purpose of paying the costs of the street lighting
system.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 12-11-2013) /Housing
CHAPTER 9: BUILDING/HOUSING
Section
      
900.   ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE
      
910.   MULTIFAMILY HOUSING REGISTRATION CODE
      
915.   SINGLE- OR TWO-FAMILY HOUSING REGISTRATION CODE
      
920.   MOVING STRUCTURES AND OCCUPANCY
      
930.   STREET NUMBERING
Subsection
Section 900: Adoption of State Building Code
   
900.01   State Building Code Adopted
   
900.02   Application, Administration, and Enforcement
   
900.03   Permits, Inspections, and Fees
   
900.04   Surcharge
   
900.05   Investigation Fee
   
900.06   Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances
Section 910: Multifamily Housing Registration Code
   
910.01   Statement of Purpose
   
910.02   Landlord/Tenant Disputes
   
910.03   Scope of Applicability
   
910.04   Definitions
   
910.05   Minimum Standards
   
910.06   Inspection and Enforcement
   
910.07   Registration
   
910.08   Remedies
   
910.09   Violations and Penalties
Section 915: Single- or Two-Family Housing Registration Code
   
915.01   Statement of Purpose
   
915.02   Landlord/Tenant Disputes
   
915.03   Scope of Applicability
   
915.04   Definitions
   
915.05   Registration
   
915.06   Violations and Penalty
   
915.07   Fees
Section 920: Moving Structures and Occupancy
   
920.01   Moving Structures
   
920.02   Certificate of Occupancy
   
920.03   Penalty
Section 930: Street Numbering
   
930.01   Numbering Required
   
930.02   Enforcement
   
930.03   Violation
SECTION 900: ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE
§ 900.01 State Building Code Adopted.
The State Building Code, established pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101 through
326B.194, as they may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted as the
Building Code for the city. Such code, its supplements, amendments, additions,
addenda, alterations, subtractions, and revisions as currently adopted and
which may in the future be adopted and incorporated as part of the code, is
hereby conformed as the Building Code for this jurisdiction, and is
incorporated into this section as if set out in full.
§ 900.02 Application, Administration, and Enforcement.
The City Council, pursuant to M.S. § 326B.133, as it may be amended from time
to time, shall appoint a Building Official who shall attend to all aspects of
Building Code administration. Additional members of a City Building Department
shall be authorized by the City Council as needed. Organization of the City’s
Building Department shall be as established by State Building Code. The State
Building Code shall be enforced within the incorporated limits of the city, and
within the exterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 326B.121, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 900.03 Permits, Inspections, and Fees.
Permits shall be issued, inspections conducted, and fees collected as provided
for in M.S. § 326B.121, as it may be amended from time to time, Chapter 1 of
the 1997 Uniform Building Code (UBC), and Minn. Rules parts 1300.0120,
1300.0160, and 1300.0210, as they may be amended from time to time. The
application shall contain such information as may be deemed necessary for the
proper enforcement of this section or any other provision of the City Code.
§ 900.04 Surcharge.
In addition to the permit fee required under subsection 900.03, the applicant
for a building permit shall pay a surcharge to be remitted to the State
Department of Administration as prescribed by M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 900.05 Investigation Fee.
Upon an individual’s application for a building permit to move a structure into
the city limits, the applicant shall pay an investigation fee in the amount
adopted by the Council in the fee schedule. This investigation fee shall be in
addition to any regular fee for a building permit.
§ 900.06 Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances.
All former ordinances or parts thereof conflicting or inconsistent with the
provisions of this section or of the code hereby adopted are hereby repealed.
SECTION 910: MULTIFAMILY HOUSING REGISTRATION CODE
§ 910.01 Statement of Purpose.
The purpose of the Multifamily Housing Registration Code is to protect the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the people of this city. These
objectives include, among others, the following:
         1.   To correct and prevent multifamily housing conditions that
adversely affect or are likely to adversely affect the life, safety, general
welfare, and health of city residents; and
         2.   To provide minimum standards for fire and life safety of
occupants of residential multifamily buildings.
§ 910.02 Landlord/Tenant Disputes.
With respect to disputes between landlords and tenants, and except as otherwise
specifically provided by terms of this section, the City Council shall not
intrude upon the accepted contractual relationships between landlords and
tenants. The City Council shall not intervene as an advocate of either party,
nor shall it act as an arbiter, nor shall it be receptive to complaints from
landlords or tenants who are not specifically and clearly relevant to the
provisions of the Multifamily Housing Registration Code. In the absence of such
relevancy with regard to rental disputes, it is intended that the contracting
parties exercise such legal sanctions as are available to them without the
intervention of city government. In enacting this Multifamily Housing
Registration Code, the Council does not intend to interfere or permit
interference with legal rights to personal privacy.
§ 910.03 Scope of Applicability.
This Multifamily Housing Registration Code establishes minimum standards for
maintaining fire and life safety for multifamily dwellings, accessory
structures, and premises, and shall not exceed but shall supplement and further
enable enforcement of the State Building Code and the State Fire Code.
Applicable requirements shall apply to all apartment units, rooming houses, or
boarding houses containing three or more rental housing units which may be used
or intended for use for human habitation, and any accessory structures on the
same premises.
§ 910.04 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Accessory Structure. A structure subordinate to the main or principal building
or use, and which is not authorized to be used for living or sleeping by human
occupants and which is located on or partially on the premises.
Apartment or Apartment Unit. A room or group of rooms located within a
multifamily building and which forms a single habitable unit with facilities
which are used or are intended to be used for living.
Approved. An indication that based on observations made by the Building
Official, an item appears to meets construction, installation, and maintenance
standards of the Building Code and/or State Fire Code and of this Multifamily
Housing Registration Code.
Basement. As defined by the State Building Code.
Building. Any structure having a roof and which may provide shelter or
enclosure for persons, animals, or chattels. When such a structure is divided
by party walls without opening, each portion of the building so separated shall
be deemed a separate building.
Building Official. The person designated by the city to fulfill the duties of
Building Official as provided by State Building Code or his or her authorized
deputy.
Dwelling. A structure or portion thereof designed exclusively for residential
occupancy, including boarding and lodging houses, but not including hotels and
motels, except as otherwise expressly provided in this section.
Exit. As defined by the State Building Code.
Family. An individual, or two or more persons each related by blood, marriage,
adoption, or foster children, living together as a single housekeeping unit; or
a group of not more than six persons not so related, maintaining a common
household and using common cooking and kitchen facilities.
Functioning. Being in such physical condition as to safely perform the service
or services for which an item is designed or intended.
Habitable. A dwelling unit or part thereof that meets minimum standards for use
as a home or place of abode by one or more persons.
Multifamily Building. Any building or structure containing three or more
separate dwelling units, whether used solely or exclusively for residential
purposes or otherwise.
Multifamily Dwelling Unit. The same meaning as “apartment unit” as defined
herein.
Occupant. Any person (including owner or operator) living within a dwelling
unit.
Owner. Any person, firm, or corporation who, alone, jointly, or severally with
others, shall be in actual possession of, or have charge, care, or control of
any multifamily building within the city as title holder, employee or agent of
the owner, or as trustee of guardian of the estate or person of the title
holder. Also, any person, firm, or corporation who has the right to determine
who occupies a multifamily dwelling unit (even though that right may be subject
to a lease or rental agreement), or a person, firm, or corporation who shall
have the power to rent or let such premises to another for purposes of this
Code.
Person. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
or a joint venture or organization of any kind.
Premises. A platted lot or part thereof or unplatted parcel of land, and
adjacent right-of-way either occupied or unoccupied non-dwelling structure,
including building accessory structures.
Public Hall. A hall, corridor, or a passageway for providing egress from a
dwelling unit to a public way and not within the exclusive control of one
family.
Repair. To restore to a sound, acceptable state of operation, serviceability,
or appearance. Repairs shall be expected to last as long as with their
replacement by new items.
Replace or Replacement. To remove an existing or portion of a system and to
construct or install a new time or a quality similar to that of the existing
item when it was new. Replacement ordinarily takes place when repair of the
items is impractical.
Rooming House. Any group of rooms within a multifamily building, which form
single habitable units used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but
not for cooking or eating purposes.
Safe. The condition of being free from danger and hazards which may cause
accident or disease.
Story. As defined by the State Building Code.
Story, First. As defined by the State Building Code.
Unit. Any multifamily dwelling unit as defined in this section.
Unsafe. As applied to a structure, shall mean a condition or a combination of
conditions which are dangerous or hazardous to persons or property.
§ 910.05 Minimum Standards.
   Subd. 1.   Basic Equipment and Facilities. No person shall occupy as an
owner or occupant, or let to another for occupancy, any multifamily dwelling
unit for the purposes of living therein which does not comply with the
following requirements.
         1.   Exits, Stairways, Porches, and Balconies. Every exit, stairway,
or flight of stairs, whether inside or outside of a dwelling, and every porch
or balcony shall be kept in safe condition, sound repair, and free of
combustible materials and deterioration, in accordance with the State Building
Code and State Fire Code. Every stairwell and every flight of stairs which is
more than two risers high shall have handrails which conform to the State
Building Code. Every porch, balcony, or deck which is more than 30 inches high
above the adjoining floor or grade shall be provided with a guardrail which
conforms to the State Building Code.
         2.   Access to Multifamily Dwelling Units. Access to or egress from
each multifamily dwelling unit shall be provided without passing through any
other multifamily dwelling unit, storage room, mechanical room, bathroom or
restroom, or vehicle garage.
         3.   Numbering of Multifamily Dwelling Units. All multifamily dwelling
units shall be numbered or lettered in an approved and conspicuous manner. No
two units shall bear the same number or letter. Accessible units must be
identified as prescribed by State Building Code.
   Subd. 2.   Building Security and Door Locks. No person shall occupy as an
owner or occupant, or let to another for occupancy, any multifamily dwelling
unless a functioning security system is provided. Such security system must
comply with the following requirements.
         1.   When access to a dwelling unit door is gained through a common
corridor or entrance in a dwelling in which four or more dwelling units share a
common entrance or corridor, an approved security system shall be maintained
for each multiple-family building to control access. The security system shall
consist of locked building entrance or foyer doors and locked doors leading
from the hallways into individual dwelling units.
         2.   Multifamily building entrance doors shall be automatically
latching and locking, and shall meet all requirements of the Americans with
Disability Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and the accessibility
provisions of the State Building Code. Such building entrance door hardware
must be “classroom function” from the egress side, to unlock and unlatch with a
single operation, and readily openable from the egress side without the use of
a key or special knowledge or effort. An approved lock box accessible to the
Fire Department shall be provided for access to the building.
         3.   Every door that provides ingress or egress for a multifamily
dwelling unit shall be equipped with an approved lock that has a dead locking
bolt that cannot be retracted by end pressure; provided, however, that such
doors shall be openable from the inside without the use of a key or any special
knowledge or effort.
   Subd. 3.   Electrical Equipment and Alarm Systems. No person shall occupy as
an owner or occupant, or let to another for occupancy, any multifamily dwelling
unit for the purpose of living therein which does not comply with the following
requirements.
         1.   Electrical Equipment. Every multifamily dwelling unit and all
public and common areas shall be supplied with functioning electrical service,
functioning over current protection devices, functioning electrical outlets,
and functioning electrical fixtures which are properly installed, which shall
be maintained is a safe working condition and which shall be connected to a
source of electric power.
         2.   Required Fixtures and Devices. Electrical fixtures and devices
required by State Building Code and State Fire Code shall be maintained in a
safe and working condition.
         3.   Exitway Illumination. Every public hall and stairway in every
multifamily building shall be effectively illuminated by natural or electrical
light at all times. A secondary power source by battery or other back-up power
source shall be provided to all emergency illumination devices.
         4.   Exit Sign Illumination. Illuminated exit signs shall be provided
in accordance with State Building Code and State Fire Code. A secondary power
source by battery or other back-up power source shall be provided to all
illuminated exit signs.
   Subd. 4.   Heating Appliance Safety. No unsafe heating appliance shall be
used by any person in a multifamily building or multifamily dwelling unit.
Unsafe conditions include, but are not limited to:
         1.   Gas or electrical appliances designed primarily for cooking or
water heating purposes shall not be considered or used as heating facilities;
         2.   Portable heating equipment employing flame or the use of liquid
fuel shall not be considered or used as heating facilities;
         3.   No owner or occupant shall install, operate, or use a space
heater employing a flame that is not vented outside the structure in an
approved manner; and/or
         4.   No multifamily building owner shall supply portable electric
heaters to provide heat to a rental unit.
   Subd. 5.   Safe Building Elements. No person shall occupy or let to another
for occupancy, any multifamily dwelling unit for the purpose of living therein
which does not comply with the following requirements.
         1.   Every foundation, roof, floor, exterior wall, interior wall,
ceiling, stairway porch, deck, balcony, and every appurtenance to each of the
foregoing shall be structurally safe and capable of supporting normal
structural loads as required by State Building Code.
         2.   Any equipment, utilities, chimneys, and flues required by State
Building Code or State Fire Code shall function effectively in a safe and
working condition.
         3.   Every yard, court, or passageway on premises on which a
multifamily building is located shall be graded and drained so as to be free of
standing water that constitutes a detriment to health and safety.
   Subd. 6.   Fire Safety. No person shall occupy as an owner or occupant, or
let to another for occupancy, any multifamily dwelling unit for the purposes of
living therein which does no comply with the following requirements:
         1.   Every existing multifamily dwelling unit shall be provided with
smoke detectors conforming to Minnesota Statutes, State Building Code, and
State Fire Code; and
         2.   Fire detection and alarm systems installed in multifamily
buildings to monitor common use hallways and areas shall be maintained in good
working order in accordance with State Building Code and State Fire Code. Such
systems shall be connected to an approved central monitoring station and shall
be tested and certified by a qualified fire alarm service company in writing to
the Building Official within each multifamily housing registration period of
two years.
§ 910.06 Inspection and Enforcement.
   Subd. 1.   Enforcement and Inspection Authority. The City Building Official
shall administer and enforce the provisions of this section. Inspections shall
be conducted during reasonable hours.
   Subd. 2.   Search Warrants. If an owner, occupant, or other person in charge
of a multifamily building or multifamily dwelling unit fails or refuses to
permit free access and entry to the structure or premises, or any part thereof,
for an inspection authorized by this section, the Building Official may, upon a
showing that probable cause exists for the inspection or for the issuance of an
order directing compliance with the inspection requirements of this section
with respect to such multifamily building or multifamily dwelling unit,
petition and obtain an order to inspect and/or search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   Subd. 3.   Compliance Order. Whenever the Building Official determines that
any multifamily dwelling, multifamily dwelling unit, or the premises
surrounding any of these fails to meet the provisions of this section, he or
she may issue a compliance order setting forth the violations of this section
and ordering the owner, occupant, operator, or agent to correct such
violations. The compliance order shall:
         1.   Be in writing;
         2.   Describe the location and nature of the violations of the
Multifamily Housing Registration Code;
         3.   Establish a reasonable time not greater than six months for the
correction of such a violation and advise the person to whom the notice is
directed of the right to appeal; and
         4.   Be served upon the owner or his/her agent or the occupant, as the
case may require. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon such
owner or agent, or upon such occupant, if a copy thereof is:
            a.   Served upon him or her personally;
            b.   Sent by certified mail return receipt requested to his or her
last known address; or
            c.   Upon failure to effect notice through Subd. 3.4.a and 3.4.b
above, posted at a conspicuous place in or about the multifamily building or
multifamily dwelling unit which is affected by the notice.
   Subd. 4.   Posting to Prevent Occupancy. The Building Official may post any
multifamily building or structure covered by this section as being in direct
violation of the section, and preventing further occupancy. Posting shall occur
if any owner, agent, licensee, or other responsible person has been notified by
inspection report of the items which must be corrected within a certain stated
period of time and that the corrections have not been made. Current occupants
shall have not more than 60 days to vacate a posted property. Current occupants
shall vacate posted property immediately if such occupancy will cause imminent
danger to the health or safety or remove or tamper with any placard used for
posting. No person shall reside in, occupy, or cause to be occupied any
building, structure, or dwelling which has been posted to prevent occupancy.
   Subd. 5.   Right of Appeal. When a person to whom a compliance order is
directed alleges that such compliance order is based upon erroneous
interpretation of this section or upon a misstatement or mistake of fact, such
person may appeal.
   Subd. 6.   Board of Appeals. Upon at least five business days notice to the
appellant of the time and place for hearing the appeal and within 30 days after
the appeal is filed, the Board of Appeals shall hold a hearing on the appeal.
All hearing notices shall be given in the same manner prescribed for giving
notice of compliance orders under Subd. 3 above. All appeals shall be conducted
in accordance with the State Building Code and the State Fire Code.
§ 910.07 Registration.
   Subd. 1.   Registration Required. No person, firm, or corporation shall
operate a multifamily dwelling in the city without having first registered the
multifamily dwelling with the Building Official as provided in this subsection.
Each multifamily dwelling and unit shall be registered annually with the
Building Official as well as submit payment for the annual registration. If the
registration is denied, no occupancy of the multifamily dwelling units then
vacant or which become vacant shall be allowed until authorized in writing by
the Building Official. Apartment units within an unregistered multifamily
building for which a registration application has been made and which units are
in compliance with this section may be occupied; provided that the unregistered
multifamily dwelling units within the multifamily building do not create a
hazard to the health and safety of persons in occupied units.
   Subd. 2.   Registration Procedures. Within 90 days after the passage of this
section, the owner of any multifamily building within the city shall register
the building with the Building Official in the manner hereafter prescribed.
         1.   Application shall be made on forms provided by the city and
accompanied by the initial fee in an amount set by resolution of the City
Council. The owner of a multifamily building constructed after the date of
passage of this section shall register the multifamily building prior to actual
occupancy of any multifamily dwelling unit therein.
         2.   Applicants shall provide the following information on
registration applications:
            a.   Name and address of owner of the multifamily building and the
name and address of the operator or agent actively managing said multifamily
building;
            b.   The name and address of the vendee if the multifamily building
is being sold on a contract for deed;
            c.   The legal description and address of the multifamily building;
            d.   The number and kind of units within the multifamily building,
the floor area for each such unit and the total floor area of the building;
            e.   Name and address of person to whom owner/applicant wishes a
certified letter to be sent; and
            f.   Such other information as the Building Official shall
legitimately require.
   Subd. 3.   Application and Inspection. After receipt of a properly executed
application, the Building Official shall cause an inspection to be made of the
premises to observe that the structure is in compliance with the requirements
of this Multifamily Housing Registration Code.
   Subd. 4.   Issuance of Multifamily Housing Certificate of Compliance.
         1.   If a multifamily building is observed to be in compliance with
the requirements of this Code, a certificate of compliance shall be issued to
the present owner, or agent which shall state that the structure has been
inspected and has been observed to be in compliance with the requirements of
this Code. If the multifamily building is observed to be in violation of this
Code, the State Building Code, or the State Fire Code, the Building Official
shall provide written notice to the building owner or agent ordering correction
of any violation within a reasonable period of time. If a violation is observed
to present an imminent fire or life safety hazard, then the Building Official
may impose additional remedies pursuant to State Building Code and State Fire
Code.
         2.   The City Building Official may charge the multifamily building
owner or agent a re-inspection fee for additional inspections resulting from
continued non-compliance. Such fee shall be in accordance with State Building
Code and in amount as determined by the building permit fee schedule
established by the city.
   Subd. 5.   Certificate of Compliance Display. A certificate of compliance
issued under this section shall be conspicuously displayed on the multifamily
building premises.
   Subd. 6.   Certificate of Compliance Renewal. All multifamily buildings
shall be inspected by the Building Official or his or her agent at least once
every two years. Upon determination by the Building Official that the
multifamily building and premises appear to be in compliance with this Code,
the State Building Code, or the State Fire Code, the Building Official shall
issue a new certificate of compliance.
   Subd. 7.   Suspension or Revocation. A certificate of compliance issued or
renewed under this section may be revoked or suspended upon a finding of non-
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   Subd. 8.   Registration Fees. Annual fees for registration, inspection fees,
re-inspection fees, and violations shall be established by the city’s fee
schedule which will be reviewed annually by the City Council.
§ 910.08 Remedies.
The city may pursue any and all remedies as prescribed by Minnesota Statutes,
State Building Code, and State Fire Code.
   Subd. 1.   Failure to Comply. Upon failure to comply with the compliance
order within the time set within the order, and no appeal having been taken, or
upon failure to comply with a modified compliance order within the time set
within the order, the criminal penalty established under this section
notwithstanding, the City Council, after due notice to the owner, may, by
resolution, declare the condition to constitute a public nuisance and cause the
cited deficiency to be remedied as set forth the compliance order. The cost of
such remedy shall be a lien against the subject real estate and may be levied
and collected as a special assessment in accordance with the M.S. Chapter 429,
as it may be amended from time to time, for abatement of nuisances and
specifically for the removal or elimination of public health or safety hazards
form private property. Any assessment levied under this section shall be
payable in a single installment. The intent of this section is to authorize the
city to utilize all of the provision of this Maintenance Code and of state law
to protect the public’s health, safety, and general welfare.
   Subd. 2.   Remedies Cumulative. Any remedies pursued under this subsection
are in addition to the remedies or penalties prescribed under subsection
910.09.
§ 910.09 Violations and Penalties.
   Subd. 1.   Prohibited Acts.
         1.   No person, firm, corporation, or registrant shall own and
maintain or operate or rent to any other person for occupancy any multifamily
building, multifamily dwelling unit, or premises in which a multifamily
dwelling unit is located in violation of this Maintenance Code.
         2.   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate a multifamily
building or multifamily dwelling unit without a certificate of compliance
issued pursuant to this section.
         3.   No person, firm, corporation, or registrant shall refuse or fail
to allow the Building Official to enter a multifamily building or multifamily
dwelling unit for purposes of inspection when authorized by this section.
         4.   No person, firm, corporation or registrant shall fail or refuse
to obey a compliance order validly issued under this section.
         5.   No person, firm, or corporation shall give or submit false
information on a registration application or any renewal thereof.
         6.   No person who is an occupant of a multifamily building or
multifamily dwelling unit shall cause a multifamily dwelling unit to become in
violation of any standards set forth in this section.
         7.   No person shall occupy an unregistered multifamily dwelling unit
if such dwelling unit is required to be registered under this section.
         8.   No occupant of any multifamily dwelling unit shall fail to allow
or refuse entry to the Building Official for purposes of inspection when
authorized by this section.
         9.   No person may occupy a multifamily building, multifamily dwelling
unit or premises posted pursuant to subsection 910.07, Subd. 4.
         10.   No person who owns or operates multifamily building shall allow
to be occupied or let to another for occupancy any multifamily dwelling unit
required to be registered under subsection 910.07, without a certificate of
compliance issued pursuant to the provisions of this section.
         11.   No person, firm, or corporation, including an owner, registrant,
or occupant, shall remove or tamper with a placard used for posting property
pursuant to this section.
   Subd. 2.   Misdemeanor. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
SECTION 915: SINGLE- OR TWO-FAMILY RENTAL HOUSING REGISTRATION CODE
§ 915.01 Statement of Purpose.
The purpose of the Single- or Two-Family Rental Housing Registration Code is to
promote the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city by ensuring
that landlords of single- or two-family units comply with City and State Code.
§ 915.02 Landlord/Tenant Disputes.
With respect to disputes between landlords and tenants, and except as otherwise
specified by terms of this section, the City Council shall not intrude upon the
accepted contractual relationships between landlords and tenants. The City
Council shall not intervene as an advocate of either party, nor shall it act as
an arbiter, nor shall it be receptive to complaints from landlords or tenants
who are not specifically and clearly relevant to the provisions of the Single-
or Two-Family Housing Registration Code. In the absence of such relevancy with
regard to rental disputes, it is intended that the contracting parties exercise
such legal sanctions as are available to them without the intervention of city
government. In enacting this Single- or Two-Family Housing Registration Code,
the Council does not intend to interfere or permit interference with legal
rights to personal privacy.
§ 915.03 Scope of Applicability.
The Single- or Two-Family Housing Registration Code establishes a process by
which the city can maintain a list of single-family rental units. The Single-
or Two-Family Housing Registration Code shall apply to all single-family rental
units as defined in this Code.
§ 915.04 Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Dwelling. A structure or portion thereof designed exclusively for residential
occupancy, including boarding and lodging houses, a kitchen or cooking
facility, but not including hotels and motels, except as otherwise expressly
provided in this section.
Dwelling, Single-Family. A building designed for and exclusively occupied
exclusively by one family.
Dwelling, Two-Family. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families in separate dwelling units.
         1.   Duplex. A two-family dwelling with one unit above the other.
         2.   Twinhome. A two-family dwelling with two units side by side.
Family. An individual, or two or more persons each related by blood, marriage,
adoption, or foster children, living together as a single housekeeping unit; or
a group of not more than six persons not so related, maintaining a common
household and using common cooking and kitchen facilities.
Occupant. Any person (including owner or operator) living within a dwelling
unit.
Owner. Any person, firm, or corporation who, alone, jointly, or severally with
others, shall be having charge, care control of any building within the city as
title holder, employee or agent of the owner, or as trustee of guardian of the
estate or person of the title holder. Also, any person, firm, or corporation
who has the right to determine who occupies a single-family rental unit (even
though that right may be subject to a lease or rental agreement), or a person,
firm, or corporation who shall have the power to rent or let such premises to
another for purposes of this Code.
Person. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
or a joint venture or organization of any kind.
Premises. A platted lot or part thereof or unplatted parcel of land, and
adjacent right-of-way either occupied or unoccupied non-dwelling structure,
including building accessory structures.
Single-Family Rental Unit. A single-family dwelling leased to a non-owner of
the property for any duration of time.
Two-Family Rental Unit. A two-family dwelling leased to a non-owner of the
property for any duration of time.
Unit. Any dwelling unit as defined in this section.
§ 915.05 Registration.
   Subd. 1.   Registration Required. No person, firm, or corporation shall
operate a single- or two-family rental unit without first registering the
single-family rental unit with the city as provided in this subsection.
   Subd. 2.   Registration Procedures.
         1.   Within 180 days of the passage of this section, any person, firm,
or corporation operating a single- or two-family dwelling unit shall register
it with the city in the following manner.
            a.   Application shall be made by filling out forms provided by the
city. The forms shall be submitted to the city with the fee that is outlined in
the city’s fee schedule which may be updated periodically.
            b.   Application forms shall at a minimum require the owner to
provide contact information for the property owner, including a mailing address
and phone number, and single- or two-family rental unit property address.
         2.   After receiving completed registration forms and associated fee,
the city’s Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall review the forms
and, upon deeming them satisfactory, shall notify the applicant in writing that
the application has been accepted.
   Subd. 3.   Single- or Two-Family Rental License Renewal. All single- or two-
family rental units shall be required to submit a registration form every two
years unless there is a change in ownership or management. If there is a change
in ownership or management of the single- or two-family rental unit, the new
owner or manager shall submit new forms to the city. The city shall serve a 30-
day notice prior to the expiration of the license.
   Subd. 4.   Suspension or Revocation.
         1.   A single- or two-family rental unit rental license issued or
renewed under this section may be revoked or suspended upon a finding of non-
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
         2.   The City Administrator may suspend or revoke a rental
registration pursuant to subsection 915.06. A notice to suspend or revoke the
registration shall be sent to the owner of the single- or two-family rental
unit 40 days prior to the effective date of the revocation or suspension.
         3.   The owner of the single or two family rental units may appeal a
revocation or suspension to the City Council by submitting written notice of
appeal within 30 days of receipt of the notice of revocation or suspension of
the rental registration.
         4.   The owner of the single- or two-family rental unit shall receive
ten days’ notice of a hearing before the City Council for the appeal. At the
hearing, the owner or his or her designee will be allowed to present evidence.
After the hearing, the Council will determine to uphold, dismiss, or change the
findings of the City Administrator. Within 30 days following the meeting, the
City Council shall send written findings and decision from the hearing.
§ 915.06 Violations and Penalties.
   Subd. 1.   Prohibited Acts.
         1.   For the purposes of this section, any of the following shall
constitute a violation:
            a.   Violation of Section 500 of this code relating to public
nuisances, offenses, and other regulations;
            b.   Violation of M.S. §§ 152.01 et seq., as they may be amended
from time to time, relating to the possession of controlled substances;
            c.   Violation of Section 400 of this code relating to intoxicating
liquor;
            d.   Violation of M.S. § 609.72, as it may be amended from time to
time, relating to disorderly conduct;
            e.   Violation of M.S. §§ 617.23 through 617.299, as they may be
amended from time to time, relating to obscenity;
            f.   Violation of M.S. §§ 609.221 through 609.224, as they may be
amended from time to time, relating to assault;
            g.   Violation of M.S. §§ 609.321 through 609.322, as they may be
amended from time to time, relating to prostitution, solicitation, inducement,
and sex trafficking;
            h.   Violation of M.S. § 609.595, as it may be amended from time to
time, relating to damage to property;
            i.   Operating a single- or two-family rental unit without a
single- or two-family rental license issued pursuant to this section;
            j.   Giving or submitting false information on a registration
application or any renewal thereof; or
            k.   Occupying an unregistered single- or two-family rental unit if
such unit is required to be registered under this section.
         2.   The City Administrator and/or his or her designee shall be
responsible for enforcing this section of the Code.
         3.   If the City Administrator or his or her designee determines that
a violation has occurred, written notice shall be sent to the owner of the
single- or two-family rental unit. The first notice will outline the conduct in
violation and steps to prevent future conduct.
         4.   If a second violation of this Code occurs within 12 months of the
first violation for which a notice was sent, the City Administrator or his or
her designee shall notify the owner in violation. The notification shall also
request a written explanation of the behavior and a plan from the owner to
prevent future misconduct. Within 30 days of receipt of the written notice from
the City Administrator or his or her designee, the owner shall submit to the
City Administrator a written plan of how to prevent future misconduct.
         5.   If a third violation of this Code occurs within 12 months of the
second violation for which a notice was sent, the rental registration may be
revoked or suspended pursuant to the procedures in subsection 915.05 Subd. 4 of
this code.
   Subd. 2.   Misdemeanor. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
§ 915.07 Fees.
Fees for registration, inspection fees, re-inspection fees, and violations
shall be established by the city’s fee schedule, which will be reviewed
annually by the City Council.
SECTION 920: MOVING STRUCTURES AND OCCUPANCY
§ 920.01 Moving Structures.
No structure that does not meet the existing Building Code of the city or the
existing zoning ordinance requirements of the city may be moved into the city
limits.
§ 920.02 Certificate of Occupancy.
   Subd. 1.   Requirement. A certificate of occupancy shall be obtained before
any building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be occupied or
before the use of any such building is altered.
   Subd. 2.   Application. Application for a certificate of occupancy for a new
building or for existing buildings for which the use or the structure will be
altered shall be made to the City Administrator as part of the application for
a building permit as required in this Code.
   Subd. 3.   Proof of Compliance. Every certificate of occupancy shall state
that the building or proposed use of a building or land complies with all
provisions of law and this chapter.
§ 920.03 Penalty.
Violation of any provisions of this section shall constitute a petty
misdemeanor.
SECTION 930: STREET NUMBERING
§ 930.01 Numbering Required.
   Subd. 1.   Required Numbering. Each separate residential, commercial, or
industrial building in the city shall have a street number displayed thereon in
a manner so as to be visible from the street serving the building. If such
separate residential, commercial, or industrial building is so constructed that
the numbering is not readily visible from the street, then the street numbering
shall also appear at the street entrance to the building. All numbers shall be
at least four inches high and shall be of contrasting color to the background.
   Subd. 2.   Numbering System. The number system for street numbers for
residential, commercial, or industrial buildings shall be the responsibility of
the City Administrator, who shall supply the appropriate assigned number to the
owner or occupant of any building.
   Subd. 3.   Exception. This section shall not apply to accessory buildings as
defined in the zoning ordinance of the city.
§ 930.02 Enforcement.
It shall be the responsibility of the City Police Chief to enforce the
provisions of this section. The Police Chief shall have authority to order in
writing the owner or occupant to comply with the numbering requirements of this
section within 60 days. The Police Chief shall have authority to extend the
item for compliance for an additional 14 days of it appears that such extension
is appropriate.
§ 930.03 Violation.
Failure to comply with a written order by the Police Chief shall be a violation
of this section and, upon conviction thereof, the violator shall be punished by
a fine of not to exceed $100. In addition to the payment of the penalty, the
Police Chief shall be authorized to apply the appropriate court for an order
directing compliance with the provisions of this section with the costs of the
action to be assessed against the violator.
CHAPTER 10: ZONING
Section
      
1000.   TITLE AND APPLICATION
      
1001.   RULES AND DEFINITIONS
      
1002.   ADMINISTRATION
      
1003.   DISTRICT REGULATIONS
      
1004.   OVERLAY DISTRICTS
      
1005.   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
      
1006.   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
Subsection
Section 1000: Title and Application
   
1000.01   Title
   
1000.02   Intent and Purpose
   
1000.03   Relation to the Comprehensive Plan
   
1000.04   Authority
   
1000.05   Separability
   
1000.06   Scope
   
1000.07   Jurisdiction
   
1000.08   Restrictive Interpretation
   
1000.09   Minimum Requirements
Section 1001: Rules and Definitions
   
1001.01   Rules
   
1001.02   Definitions
Section 1002: Administration
   
1002.01   Duties of Zoning Administrator
   
1002.02   Enforcement
   
1002.03   Building Permits
   
1002.04   Zoning Certificate
   
1002.05   Administrative Permits
   
1002.06   Amendments (Text and Map)
   
1002.07   Environmental Review
   
1002.08   Conditional Use Permits (CUP)
   
1002.09   Interim Use Permits (IUP)
   
1002.10   Temporary Uses
   
1002.11   Site Plans
   
1002.12   Variance
   
1002.13   Appeals
   
1002.14   Penalties
Section 1003: District Regulations
   
1003.01   Establishment of Districts
   
1003.02   Zoning District Boundaries
   
1003.03   Zoning Map
   
1003.04   Annexations
   
1003.05   Use Table
   
1003.06   AG, Agricultural District
   
1003.07   R-1, Single-Family Residential District
   
1003.08   R-2, Medium Density Residential District
   
1003.09   R-3, High Density Residential District
   
1003.10   R-4, Single-Family Manufactured Home Park District
   
1003.11   R-5, Residential Redevelopment District
   
1003.12   B-1, Community Business District
   
1003.13   B-2, General Business District
   
1003.14   CI, Mixed Use Commercial Industrial District
   
1003.15   I-1, Industrial Park District
   
1003.16   I-2, General Industrial District
   
1003.17   I-3, Innovative Industrial District
   
1003.18   PUD, Planned Unit Development
Section 1004: Overlay Districts
   
1004.01   Downtown Design Overlay District
   
1004.02   Floodplain Overlay District
   
1004.03   Shoreland Management Overlay District
   
1004.04   Wetland Overlay District
   
1004.05   Mississippi Recreational River Overlay District
   
1004.06   Transit Oriented Development District
Section 1005: General Requirements
   
1005.01   Accessory Buildings, Structures, and Uses
   
1005.02   Antennas
   
1005.03   Building Relocation
   
1005.04   Essential Services
   
1005.05   Grading, Filling, and Excavating
   
1005.06   Model Homes/Temporary Real Estate Offices
   
1005.07   Recreational Vehicles
   
1005.08   Alternative Energy Systems
   
1005.09   Swimming Pools
   
1005.10   Sexually Oriented Business
   
1005.11   Non-Conforming Buildings, Structures, Uses, and Lots
   
1005.12   Home Occupation Permits
   
1005.13   Temporary Family Health Care Dwellings
   
1005.14   Outside Storage/Display
   1005.15   Cannabis Businesses
Section 1006: Performance Standards
   
1006.01   General Performance Standards
   
1006.02   Lot and Yard Requirements
   
1006.03   Parking and Loading
   
1006.04   Building Standards
   
1006.05   Fences and Walls
   
1006.06   Landscaping
   
1006.07   General Use Standards
SECTION 1000: TITLE AND APPLICATION
§ 1000.01 Title.
Sections 1000 through 1006, inclusive, shall be known, cited, and referred to
as the “Big Lake Zoning Ordinance” except as referred to herein, where it shall
be known as “this Ordinance.”
§ 1000.02 Intent and Purpose.
The intent of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, morals, and
general welfare of the city and its people through the establishment of
regulations governing the development and use of property within the city. Such
regulations are established to:
         1.   Implement the Comprehensive Plan;
         2.   Promote orderly development and redevelopment;
         3.   Provide adequate light, air, and convenience of access to
property;
         4.   Prevent congestion in the public right-of-way;
         5.   Prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures and population by regulating land, building, yards, setbacks, and
density of development;
         6.   Provide for the compatibility of different land uses and protect
use area from incompatible uses;
         7.   Provide for the administration of this chapter and any
amendments;
         8.   Prescribe penalties for violation of such regulations; and
         9.   Define powers and duties of the city staff, the Planning
Commission, and the City Council in relation to this chapter.
§ 1000.03 Relation to the Comprehensive Plan.
It is the policy of the city that the enforcement, amendment, and
administration of this chapter be accomplished consistent with the policies and
guidelines contained in the City Comprehensive Plan, as adopted and amended
from time to time. The City Council recognizes the City Comprehensive Plan as
the official policy for the regulation of land use and development in
accordance with the policies and purpose of this chapter. In accordance with
M.S. Chapter 473, as it may be amended from time to time, the city will not
approve any rezoning or other change in these regulations that are inconsistent
with the City Comprehensive Plan.
§ 1000.04 Authority.
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the Municipal
Planning Act, M.S. §§ 462.351 to 462.365, as they may be amended from time to
time.
§ 1000.05 Separability.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city that the several
provisions of this chapter are separable in accordance with the following.
   Subd. 1.   Invalid Provision. If any court of competent jurisdiction shall
adjudge any provision of this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not
affect any other provisions of this chapter not specifically included in said
judgment.
   Subd. 2.   Adjudication of Invalid Provision. If any court of competent
jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the application of any provision of this
chapter to a particular property, building, or other structure, such judgment
shall not affect the application of said provision to any other property,
building, or structure not specifically included in said judgment.
§ 1000.06 Scope.
Following adoption of this chapter, the use of all land and every building and
the erection or structural alteration of any building or portion of a building
in the city shall be in conformity with the provision of this chapter. Any
structure or use lawfully existing at the enactment of this chapter, but not in
conformity with the regulations of the appropriate zoning district, may be
continued subject to the regulations of this chapter.
§ 1000.07 Jurisdiction.
The geographic jurisdiction of this chapter includes the entire area within the
corporate limits of the city. Land areas which may be added to the city by
annexation, merger, or other means shall be classified “A”, Agricultural
District which shall be considered an interim step pending permanent
classification at such time that the City Council may establish a Comprehensive
Plan land use designation and rezone the added territory to more appropriate
classifications.
§ 1000.08 Restrictive Interpretation.
Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter are either more
or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by another ordinance,
rule, or regulation of the city, the ordinance, rule, or regulation which
imposes the more restrictive condition, standard, or requirements shall
prevail.
§ 1000.09 Minimum Requirements.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be the minimum requirement for the promotion of the public health,
safety, and welfare.
   Subd. 1.   Permits Controlled. No application for a building permit or other
permit or license, or for a zoning certificate shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator, and no permit or license shall be issued by any other city
department or officer which would authorize the use or change in use of any
land or building contrary to the provisions of this chapter, or the erection,
moving, alteration, enlargement, or occupancy of any building designed or
intended to be used for a purpose or in a manner contrary to the provisions of
this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the regulation of uses of
property by means of restrictive covenants which are valid except for this
chapter.
   Subd. 2.   Yard Reduction. No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of
this chapter shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum
requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after April 26, 2023
(effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived) shall meet
the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
   Subd. 3.   Application. In their application, these regulations shall not
abrogate any easement, covenant, or any other private agreement where such is
legally enforceable, provided that where the regulations of this chapter are
more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such
easements, covenants, or other private agreements, the requirement of this
chapter shall be controlling.
   Subd. 4.   Prohibition of Uses Not Specifically Authorized. Whenever in any
zoning district a use is not specifically permitted, the use shall be
considered prohibited. In such case, the City Council, or the Planning
Commission, on their own initiative or upon request, may conduct a study to
determine if the use is acceptable and if so, what zoning district would be
most appropriate and the determination as to conditions and standards relating
to development of the use. The City Council, Planning Commission, or property
owner, upon receipt of the staff study shall, if appropriate, initiate an
amendment to this chapter to provide for the particular use under consideration
or shall find that the use is not compatible for development within the city.
   Subd. 5.   Monuments. For the purpose of this chapter, all federal, state,
county, and other official monuments, benchmarks, triangulation points, and
stations shall be preserved in their precise locations; and it shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to ensure that these markers are maintained in
good condition during and following construction and development. All section,
one-quarter section, and one-sixteenth section corners shall be duly described
and tied.
   Subd. 6.   Comprehensive Revision. The City Council intends this chapter to
be a comprehensive revision to Chapter 10 of the City Code, Section 1000, and
all other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter, as amended. Any act done,
offense committed, or rights accruing or accrued, or liability, penalty
incurred or imposed prior to April 26, 2023 (effective date of the ordinance
from which this chapter is derived) is not affected by its enactment.
   Subd. 7.   Vested Rights. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted or
construed to give use to any permanent vested rights in the continuation of any
permissible activities herein, and they are hereby declared to be subject to
subsequent amendment change or modification as may be necessary to the
preservation of protection of public health, safety, and welfare.
SECTION 1001: RULES AND DEFINITIONS
§ 1001.01 Rules.
The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction and definitions.
         1.   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the
singular.
         2.   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses, and
the future the present.
         3.   The word “shall” is mandatory while the word “may” is permissive.
         4.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
         5.   For terminology not defined in this chapter, the City Code, the
State Building Code, or the Webster’s Dictionary shall be used to define such
term(s).
         6.   All measured distances expressed in feet shall be the nearest
tenth of a foot.
§ 1001.02 Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Abut. Make contact with or separated by public thoroughfare, railroad, public
utility right-of-way, or navigable waters.
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU). A secondary dwelling unit, subordinate to a
principal one-family dwelling, within or attached to a one-family dwelling or
in a detached accessory building on the same zoning lot.
Accessory Structure. A structure subordinate to, incidental to, and/or serving
the principal structure on the same lot and the use of which is clearly
incidental to that of the main building or to the use of the premises. Examples
of accessory structures include detached garages, greenhouses, gazebos, ice-
fishing shacks, storage sheds, tool sheds, platforms, trash enclosures, and the
like.
Accessory Structure or Facility (Shoreland). Any building or improvement
subordinate to a principal use which, because of the nature of its use, can
reasonably be located at or greater than normal structure setbacks.
Accessory Use. A use subordinate to the principal use on the same lot, or
immediately adjacent and commonly owned lot, and customarily incidental to the
main use.
Accessory Use or Structure (Floodplain). A use or structure on the same lot
with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal
use or structure.
Addition. A physical enlargement of an existing structure.
Adjacent. When referring to adjacent lots or land, adjacent shall mean a lot
that shares all or part of a common lot line with another lot.
Adult Day Care. Personal care during the day (for less than 24 hours) in a
protective setting licensed by the state providing companionship education,
recreational, or developmental activities, as well as integral but subordinate
medical services in the form of medical examinations, dental screening, and
immunizations.
Agriculture Uses. Those uses commonly associated with the growing of product on
farms. These include: field crop farming; pasture for hay, fruit growing, tree,
plant, shrub, or flower nursery without building; truck gardening; roadside
stand for the seasonal sale of products grown on premises; and keeping and
raising of ten or fewer farm animals, but not including fur farms, wholesale
nurseries and garden centers, and kennels.
Alley. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street.
Alternative Energy System. A geothermal, wind, or solar energy system.
Animals. See City Code subsection 380.01 for animal definitions.
Annexation. The inclusion, attachment, or addition or property into the city
limits.
Antenna. Any of the below described uses requiring an antenna shall be subject
to the regulations of this chapter.
Antenna, Personal Wireless Service. A device consisting of a metal, carbon
fiber, or other electromagnetically conducive rods or elements, usually
arranged in a circular array on a single supporting pole or other structure,
and used for the transmission and reception of radio waves in wireless
communications including cellular, personal communication services (PCS),
enhanced specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging, and similar services, and
including the support structure thereof.
Antenna, Public Utility Microwave. A parabolic dish or cornucopia shaped,
electromagnetically reflective or conductive element used for the transmission
and/or reception of point to point UHF or VHF radio waves in wireless telephone
communications, and including the supporting structure thereof.
Antenna, Radio and Television, Broadcast Transmitting. A wire, set of wires,
metal or carbon fiber rod, or other electromagnetic element used to transmit
public or commercial broadcast radio or television programming, and including
the support structure thereof.
Antenna, Radio and Television Receiving. A wire, set of wires, metal or carbon
fiber element(s), other than satellite dish antennas, used to receive radio,
television, or electromagnetic waves, and including the supporting structure
thereof.
Antenna, Satellite Dish. A device incorporating a reflective surface that is
solid, open mesh, or bar configured and is in the shape of a shallow dish,
cone, horn, or cornucopia. Such device shall be used to transmit and/or receive
radio or electromagnetic waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally based
uses and including the support structure thereof. This definition shall
include, but not be limited to, what are commonly referred to as satellite
earth stations, TVRO’s (television receive only), and satellite microwave
antennas.
Antenna, Short-Wave Radio Transmitting and Receiving. A wire, set of wires, or
a device consisting of a metal, carbon fiber, or other electromagnetically
conductive element used for the transmission and reception of radio waves used
for short-wave radio communications, and including the supporting structure
thereof.
Antenna Support Structure. Any pole, telescoping mast, tower, tripod, or any
other structure which supports a device used in the transmitting or receiving
of radio frequency energy.
Antenna Tower. A self-supporting lattice, guyed, or monopole structure
constructed from grade which supports wireless service antennas. The term
“tower” shall not include amateur radio operators’ equipment, as licensed by
the FCC.
Antenna Tower, Temporary Mobile. Any mobile tower, pole, or structure located
on a trailer, vehicle, or temporary platform intended primarily for the purpose
of mounting an antenna or similar apparatus for personal wireless service,
which is commonly referred to as cellular on wheels (COW).
Apartment. See “Dwelling, Multiple-Family (Apartment).”
Applicant. The owner, their agent, or person having legal control, ownership,
and/or interest in land which the provisions of this chapter are being
considered for or reviewed.
Arterial. A type of road that is characterized by limited access and a design
capacity to move relatively large volumes of traffic in an expedient manner.
Arterials are divided into principal arterials and minor arterials based on
their access, the traffic volume they carry, and the areas they serve. The
roadway classification system is further defined and illustrated in the
transportation chapter of the City Comprehensive Plan as amended.
Assisted Living Facility. A facility that provides sleeping accommodations to
one or more adult residents, and offering or providing, for a fee, one or more
regularly scheduled health-related services or two or more regularly scheduled
supportive services, whether offered or provided directly by the establishment
or by another entity arranged for the establishment, as defined in M.S. § 144G,
as it may be amended from time to time.
Automobile Repair Services, Major. General repair, rebuilding, or
reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles, or trailers, including bodywork,
framework, welding, and major painting service.
Automobile Repair Services, Minor. The replacement of any part or repair of any
part that does not require removal of the engine head or pan, engine
transmission or differential; incidental body and fender work, minor painting,
and upholstering service. Above stated is applied to passenger automobiles and
trucks not in excess of 9,000 pounds gross weight.
Automobile Service Station. See “Motor Fuel Station.”
Average Ground Level. The average ground elevation at least five years prior to
construction at the corners of a principal or accessory building footprint.
Said average ground elevation shall be established from topographic maps on
file at City Hall or as determined by the City Engineer.
Awning. A roof-like cover that is temporary in nature and that projects from
the wall of a building for the purpose of shielding a doorway or window from
the elements.
Basement. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, located partly
underground but having half or more of its floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
Basement (Floodplain). Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having
its floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless
of the depth of excavation below ground level.
Bay. Cantilevered area of a room.
Berm. A landscaped mound of earth typically used to separate incompatible uses,
screen off-site views of development, mitigate noise impacts, and create
aesthetic interest.
Best Management Practices. A technique or series of techniques which, when used
in an erosion control plan, is proven to be effective in controlling
construction-related runoff, erosion, and sedimentation.
Block. A tract of land bounded by streets or a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, unsubdivided
acreage, or boundary line of the corporate limits of the city.
Bluff (Shoreland). A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff, or embankment
having all of the following characteristics:
         1.   Part or all of the feature is located in a shoreland area;
         2.   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high water
level of the water body;
         3.   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25
feet or more above the ordinary high water level averages 30% or greater;
         4.   The slope must drain toward the water body; and
         5.   An area with an average slope of less than 18% over a distance
for 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of the bluff.
Bluff Impact Zone (Shoreland). A bluff and land located within 20 feet from the
top of a bluff.
Bluff, Toe of (Shoreland). The lower point of a 50-foot segment with an average
slope exceeding 18%.
Bluff, Top of (Shoreland). The higher point of a 50-foot segment with an
average slope exceeding 18%.
Board of Appeals and Adjustments. The City Council sitting as a review board
for zoning matters as provided in M.S. § 462.357, subd. 6, as it may be amended
from time to time.
Boulevard. That portion of the dedicated street or right-of-way lying between
the back of a curb, or traveled portion of the right-of-way if there is no
curb, and the lot or property line (typically landscaped with grass and/or
street trees).
Brewery. A facility used for the production of malt liquor. M.S. Chapter 340A
applies, as it may be amended from time to time.
Brewpub. An establishment offering a food menu in addition to alcohol produced
by an associated brewery.
Buffer. The use of land, topography, difference in elevation, space, fences, or
landscape plantings to screen or partially screen a use or property from
another use or property to shield or mitigate undesirable influences such as:
sight, noise, dust, lights, and other external impacts.
Buffer Strip. An area of vegetated ground cover abutting a wetland that is
maintained in its natural condition.
Buffer Yard. A strip of land utilized to screen or partially screen a use or
property from another use or property or to shield or mitigate noise, lights,
or other impacts.
Buildable. The portion of the lot above the ordinary high watermark of a
waterbody, outside of steep slope areas of 12% or greater, remaining after
required yards, setbacks, and easements have been provided.
Building. Any structure having a roof which may provide shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattel, or property of any kind, and when said structures
are divided by party walls without openings, each portion of such building so
separated shall be deemed a separate building.
Building Coverage. The term “building coverage,” as referenced in this chapter,
shall include the principal building and any attachments thereto which contain
a roof. Accessory buildings and structures which contain a roof and are in
excess of 120 square feet in dimension shall also be included.
Building Height. The vertical distance to be measured from the grade of a
building line to the top of the cornice of a flat roof, to the deck line of a
mansard roof, to a point on the roof directly above the highest wall of a shed
roof, to the upper most point on a round or other arch type roof, to the mean
distance of the highest gable on a pitched or hip roof.
Building Height (Shoreland). The vertical distance between the highest
adjoining ground level at the building or ten feet above the lowest ground
level, whichever is lower, and the highest point of a flat roof or average
height of the highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof. “Accessory Building
Heights (Shoreland)” shall be measured to a point on the roof directly above
the highest wall.
Building-Integrated Solar Energy System. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building including, but not limited to, photovoltaic or hot
water solar systems contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights, and
awnings.
Building Line. A line parallel to the street right-of-way, street easements, or
ordinary high water level at any story level of a building and representing the
minimum distance that all or any part of the building is set back from said
right-of-way, easement, or ordinary high water level.
Building Setback. The minimum horizontal distance between the building and a
lot line, right-of-way, or the ordinary high water mark of a waterbody.
Business. Any establishment, occupation, employment, or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited, or sold, or where services are offered
for compensation.
Cannabis Cultivation. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis plants
within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to mature
plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label immature
plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis businesses,
transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the same
premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
Cannabis Mezzobusiness. A Minnesota cannabis license type issued pursuant to
M.S. § 342.29 which permits cultivation of cannabis, manufacturing of cannabis
and hemp products, and packaging of such products for sale to customers or
another licensed cannabis business and which may operate up to three retail
locations.
Cannabis Microbusiness. A Minnesota cannabis license type issued pursuant to
M.S. § 342.28 which permits cultivation of cannabis, manufacturing of cannabis
products and hemp products, and packaging such products for sale to customers
or another licensed cannabis business and which may operate a single retail
location.
Cannabis Retail Businesses. A retail location and the retail location(s) of
mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, (and/excluding) lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
Cannabis Retailer. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or association,
foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and not for the
purpose of resale in any form.
Canopy. An accessory roof-like structure, which is either attached to or
detached from a principal building; which is open on all sides, other than
where attached; and, which is located over and designed to provide cover for
commercial or industrial entrances, exits, and walkways, and off-street vehicle
service areas.
Car Wash. A building or area that provides facilities for washing and cleaning
motor vehicles, which may use production line methods with a conveyor, blower,
or other mechanical devices, and which may employ some hand labor.
Carport. A canopy supported by posts, either ornamental or solid, and having
one or more sides open.
Catering/Commercial Kitchen. An establishment having a minimum seating capacity
of 160 providing food and beverages service, which may include accessory on-
sale liquor and live entertainment, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises and served at tables for special events sponsored by persons or
entities who are members of the general public, but which is not open for
business on a daily basis, and which may provide catering services for special
events for consumption off the premises.
Cemetery or Memorial Garden. A parcel or tract of land used or intended to be
used for the burial of the dead.
Certificate of Occupancy. A document that must be issued and contained by the
local government agency certifying a building’s compliance with applicable
building codes and indicating it be in a condition suitable for occupancy.
Channel. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct water either continuously or
periodically.
City. The City of Big Lake.
City Administrator. The person designated by the City Council to be the City
Administrator.
City Attorney. The person designated by the City Council to be the City
Attorney.
City Building Official. The person designated by the City Council to be the
City Building Official.
City Clerk. The person designated by the City Council to be the City Clerk.
City Code. The Municipal Code of the City of Big Lake, as amended from time to
time. Also referred to as the City of Big Lake Newly Codified Ordinances. This
zoning ordinance is part of the City Code.
City Council. The governing body of the city.
City Engineer. The person designated by the City Council to be the City
Engineer.
City Zoning Administrator. The person designated by the City Council to be the
Zoning Administrator of the city.
Clear View Triangle. The area around the convergence of two streets or a street
and an access driveway where visibility is not impeded. The clear view triangle
shall be identified as follows: Beginning at the intersection of the of the
projected curb lines adjacent to two intersecting streets, thence 30 feet along
one curb line, thence diagonally to a point 30 feet from the point of beginning
on the other curb line thence to the point of beginning.
Closed Loop Geothermal System. A system that circulates a heat transfer fluid,
typically food-grade antifreeze, through pipes or coils buried beneath the land
surface or anchored to the bottom in a body of water.
Collector Streets. A type of road that functions to provide connections between
neighborhoods and from neighborhoods to areas with concentrations of business.
They typically have lower traffic volumes and speeds than arterials, but higher
than local streets. Collectors are divided into those roads that are designed
to distribute traffic from major generators or from minor collectors to
arterial roads (major collectors) and those roads that are designed to
distribute traffic from major collectors or arterials to local streets (minor
collectors). The roadway classification system is further defined and
illustrated in the transportation chapter of the City Comprehensive Plan.
Commercial Equipment. Any equipment, including trailers, used for the
alteration, demolition, construction, maintenance, or excavation of a building,
structure, or property.
Commercial Vehicle Sales. The use of any building or land area for the display
and sale of new or used commercial vehicles. See “Vehicle, Commercial” for
definition of commercial vehicle.
Commissioner (Shoreland). Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources.
Common Open Space. Any privately owned open space including private parks,
nature areas, playgrounds, and trails including accessory recreational
buildings and structures which are an integral part of a development.
Community Solar Energy System (also called Solar Garden). A solar-electric
(photovoltaic) array generating no more than five megawatts that provides
retail electric power (or a financial proxy for retail power) to multiple
community members or businesses residing on-site or located off-site from the
location of the solar energy system or for wholesale on the commercial grid.
Comprehensive Plan. Sometimes referred to as “City Plan” or “Comprehensive City
Plan” and consists of a compilation of goals, policy statements, standards,
programs, and maps for guiding the physical, social, and economic development,
both public and private, of the city and its environs, as defined in the
state’s Municipal Planning Act, being M.S. §§ 462.351 et seq., and includes any
unit or part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan or
parts thereof.
Conditional Use. A use classified as conditional generally may be appropriate
or desirable in a specific zone, but requires special approval because if not
carefully located or designed, it may create special problems such as excessive
height or bulk, abnormal traffic congestion, or environmental disruption.
Conditional Use (Floodplain). A specific type of structure or land use listed
in the official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls, floodplain regulations, or building codes, and upon a
finding that:
         1.   Certain conditions as detailed in the city zoning ordinance
exist; and
         2.   The structure and/or land use conform to the Comprehensive Land
Use Plan goals and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
Conditional Use Permit. A permit, issued by the City Council by resolution, as
a flexibility device to enable the Council to assign dimensions to a proposed
use or conditions surrounding it after consideration of adjacent uses and their
functions and the special problems which the proposed use presents. Frequently
identified by its initials, CUP, or C.U.P.
Condominium. A multiple-family dwelling or development containing individually
owned units and jointly owned and shared areas and facilities, which dwelling
or development is subject to the provisions of the State Condominium Act, M.S.
§§ 515.01 through 515.29, as they may be amended from time to time.
Contractor Operation. An area and/or building devoted to use by a person who
contracts to supply certain materials or to perform certain work in the field
of building or construction trades.
Court. An unoccupied open space other than a yard which is bounded on two or
more sides by the walls of a building.
Covenant, Private. An agreement between private parties that binds and
restricts the land in the hands of present owners and subsequent purchasers.
Day Care Facility. Any state licensed facility, public or private, which
provides one or more persons with care, training, supervision, habilitation,
rehabilitation, or developmental guidance on a regular basis, for periods of
less than 24 hours per day, in a place other than the person’s own home. Day
care facilities include, but are not limited to: family day care homes, group
family day care homes, day care centers, day nurseries, nursery schools,
daytime activity centers, day treatment programs, and day services, as defined
by M.S. § 245A.02, subd. 10, as it may be amended from time to time.
Daycare. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human Services to
provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own home for
gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
Deck. A horizontal, unenclosed platform attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site and at any point extending more than 30 inches above
average ground level.
Development. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings and other structures, mining dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations, or storage of
material or equipment.
Dispatch Center. An office where employees manage a group of vehicles,
especially for the emergency services, and send them where they are needed.
Display, Outside. Storage outside the principal building where merchandise is
visible and may involve active sales as well as passive sales (where items can
be taken inside for actual purchase).
Distribution Center. A use greater than 50,000 square feet in area in which
typically large volumes of commodities are received and organized for transport
prior to final dispersal to the consumer. A distribution center does not
include the distribution related uses, including, but not limited to, office
and laboratory or production space.
Distribution Lines. All those wires, poles, and appurtenant equipment used to
carry electricity, generally rated below 115 kilovolts, located between a
customer and a transmission line.
District. A section or sections of the city for which the regulations and
provisions governing the use of buildings and lands are uniform for each class
of use permitted therein. Also referred to as a Zoning District.
Drainage Way. A natural or human-made channel which collects and intermittently
or continuously conveys storm water runoff.
Draining. The removal of surface water or groundwater from the land.
Dredge. To enlarge or clean out a waterbody, watercourse, or wetland.
Drive-Through Facility. An establishment at which patrons may purchase products
or receive service without having to leave the motor vehicle. A motor fuel
station is not considered to be a drive-through facility.
Duplex, Triplex, and Quad. A dwelling structure on a single lot, having two,
three, and four units respectively; being attached by common walls and each
unit equipped with separate sleeping, cooking, eating, living, and sanitation
facilities.
Dwelling. A building or portion thereof, designated exclusively for residential
occupancy, including one-family, two-family, and multiple-family dwellings, but
not including hotels, motels, nursing homes, boarding or rooming houses, tents,
seasonal cabins, mobile homes, motor homes, or travel trailers. Also referred
to as a “dwelling unit.”
Dwelling, Attached. A building where a dwelling unit is joined in a horizontal
fashion to one or more dwelling units by party wall or walls.
Dwelling, Detached. A single-family dwelling not attached to another entirely
surrounded by open space.
Dwelling, Manufactured Home. A residential dwelling unit designed for
transportation after fabrication on streets or highways and arriving at the
site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpack and assembly operations. A motor home is
not considered a manufactured home.
Dwelling, Multiple-Family (Apartment). A building designed with three or more
dwelling units exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living
independently of each other, but sharing hallways, stairs, main entrances and
exits, and/or other common elements.
Dwelling, Senior. Multiple-family dwelling designed for and occupied primarily
by persons over 55 years of age, and which may include on-site recreational,
social, or health care services for the benefit of the residents.
Dwelling, Single-Family. A building designed for and exclusively occupied
exclusively by one family.
Dwelling, Townhouse. Structures housing dwelling units contiguous to each other
only by the sharing of one or more common walls with each unit having a
separate entrance/exit. Such structures are of the townhouse or row house type
as contrasted to multiple-family dwelling apartment structures.
Dwelling, Two-Family. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families in separate dwelling units.
Duplex. A two-family dwelling with one unit above the other.
Twinhome. A two-family dwelling with two units side by side.
Dwelling Unit (Shoreland). Any structure or portion of a structure, or other
shelter designed as short- or long-term living quarters for one or more
persons, including rental or timeshare accommodations such as motel, hotel,
resort rooms, and cabins.
Earth Sheltered Building. A building so constructed that 50% or more of the
completed structure is covered with earth. Earth covering is measured from the
lowest level of the livable space in residential units and of usable space in
non-residential buildings. An earth sheltered building is a complete structure
that does not serve just as a foundation or sub-structure for above grade
construction. A partially covered building shall not be considered earth
sheltered.
Easement. A grant by a property owner of one or more property rights for the
use of land for the purpose of ingress and egress, trails and pedestrian ways,
constructing and maintaining utilities, including, but not limited to, sanitary
sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewer, or storm
drainage ways and infrastructure, and gas lines.
Engineer. An electrical, mechanical, civil, or other professional engineer
licensed by the state.
Erosion. The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the movement of
wind, water, or ice.
Essential Service Structures. Structures and buildings necessary for the
operation of essential services, including, but not limited to: telephone
buildings, telephone booths, gas regulator stations, substations, electrical
stations, water tanks, and lift stations. Essential service structures shall
not include transmission/reception antennas or electric transmission lines in
excess of 35 KV and associated poles, towers and other appurtenances 60 feet or
more in height above the natural ground level.
Essential Services. The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by
private or public utilities or municipal departments of underground or overhead
telephone, gas, electrical, steam, hot water, communication, water, or sewer
transmission, distribution, collection, supply or disposal systems, including
towers, wells, radio receivers and transmitters, poles, wires, mains, drains,
sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic
signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories in connection
therewith for the furnishing of adequate service by such private or public
utilities or municipal departments. Wireless communication services,
transmission/reception support structures and antennas, commercial broadcasting
antennas and towers, and electric transmission lines in excess of 35 KV shall
not be considered an essential service.
Event Center. A facility located on private property that primarily functions
to provide a facility for any type of social gathering that is available for
use by various groups for such activities as public assemblies, meetings,
private meetings, retreats, parties, weddings, receptions, and dances.
Excavation. Any non-agricultural artificial excavation of earth exceeding 50
square feet of surface area or two feet in depth, excavated or made for the
removal from the natural surface of the earth, soil, sand, gravel, stone, or
other natural matter, made by turning or breaking or undermining the surface of
the earth.
Exterior Storage. See “Outdoor Storage (Exterior Storage).”
Family. An individual or two or more persons each related to the other by
blood, marriage, adoption, or foster care, or a group of not more than six
persons not so related maintaining a common household and using common cooking
and kitchen facilities.
Farm. An unplatted tract of land containing more than ten acres, or two or more
abutting parcels under the same ownership having a total area of more than ten
acres on which crops and often livestock are raised for a source of income.
Feedlots. A lot or building or combination of lots and buildings intended for
the confined feeding, breeding, raising, or holding of animals and specifically
designed as a confinement area in which manure may accumulate, or where the
concentration of animals is such that a vegetative cover cannot be maintained
within the enclosure. Open lots used for feeding and rearing of poultry
(poultry ranges) and barns, dairy farms, swine facilities, beef lots and barns,
horse stalls, mink ranches, and zoos shall be considered to be animal feedlots.
Pastures shall not be considered animal feedlots, nor shall any area as above
described which contains ten farm animals or less.
Fence. Any lineal structure used to prevent access by persons or animals, or to
prevent visual or sound transference. Fences shall not include retaining walls
and sound barriers as defined in this chapter.
Filling. The act of depositing any rock, soil, gravel, sand, or other material
so as to fill or partly fill a waterbody, watercourse, wetland, channel, or
natural or excavated hole, trench, or other swell or depression in the earth.
Firearm Range. Any rifle, pistol, silhouette, skeet, trap, black powder, or
other similar range used for discharging firearms in a sporting event or for
practice or instruction in the use of a firearm, or for the testing of a
firearm.
Flood (Floodplain). A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in
the stage of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry
areas.
Flood and Erosion Control Facilities. Facilities approved by the appropriate
authority to minimize the potential for damage from flooding or erosion.
Facilities may consist of channels, shoreline protection, storm water control
facilities, and related structures.
Flood Frequency (Floodplain). The frequency for which it is expected that a
specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
Flood Fringe (Floodplain). That portion of the floodplain outside of the
floodway. Flood fringe is synonymous with the term “floodway fringe” used in
the Flood Insurance Study for Sherburne County, Minnesota and Incorporated
Areas.
Flood Proofing (Floodplain). A combination of structural provisions, changes,
or adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for
the reduction or elimination of flood damages.
Floodplain (Floodplain). The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland,
lake, or watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the
regional flood.
Floodway (Floodplain). The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a
watercourse and those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably
required to carry or store the regional flood discharge.
Floor Area. The total square footage of each floor of a building measured from
the exterior faces of the exterior walls.
Floor Plan, General. A graphic representation of the anticipated utilization of
the floor area within a building or structure but not necessarily as detailed
as construction plans.
Funeral Home.
         1.   A building or part thereof used for human funeral services. Such
building may contain space and facilities for:
            a.   Embalming and the performance of other services used in the
preparation of the dead for burial;
            b.   The performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures;
            c.   The storage of caskets, funeral urns, and other related
funeral supplies; and
            d.   The storage of funeral.
         2.   This classification excludes cemeteries and crematoriums.
Garage. An accessory building or accessory portion of the principal building
which is intended for and used to store the private passenger vehicles and
trucks.
Garbage. Animal and vegetable wastes and other wastes or putrescible matter
including, but not limited to, grease, wrappings, shells, grounds, bones,
entrails, and similar materials resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking, service, and consumption of food, and other animal wastes.
Garden Center. A place of business where retail and wholesale products and
produce are sold to the retail customer. These centers, which may include a
nursery and/or greenhouses, import the majority of the items sold. These items
may include plants, nursery products and stock, fertilizers, potting soil,
hardware, power equipment and machinery, hose, rakes, shovels, and other garden
and farm tools and utensils.
Gazebo. A freestanding accessory structure or pavilion. Such structures are
characterized by partly open construction, design symmetry, and the use of
ornamental architectural features.
Geothermal System. A system that uses the relatively constant temperature of
the earth or a body of water to provide heating in the winter and cooling in
the summer. System components include open or closed loops of pipe, coils, or
plates; a fluid that absorbs and transfers heat; and a heat pump unit that
processes heat for use or disperses heat for cooling; and an air distribution
system.
Governing Body. The Big Lake City Council.
Grade (Adjacent Ground Elevation). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line, or when the property line is more than five
feet from the building, between the building and a line five feet from the
building. “Grade” also means the following: The vertical location of the ground
surface; existing grade means the grade prior to grading; rough grade means the
stage at which the grade approximately conforms to the approved plan; final
grade means stage at which the grade conforms to the approved plan.
Grading. Changing the natural or existing topography of the land.
Greenhouse. An enclosed building, permanent or portable, which is used for the
growing of small plants.
Greenway. A linear park, alternative transportation route, or open space area
that provides passive recreational opportunities, pedestrian and/or bicycle
paths, and/or the conservation of open space or natural areas as indicated in
the Comprehensive Plan.
Grocery, Supermarket. A retail establishment which offers for sale food
products, household items, and other goods associated with the same. In many
cases, supermarkets include pharmacies, delicatessens, and snack bars.
Gross Floor Area. Total floor area including exterior building walls of all
floors of a building or structure.
Gross Vehicle Weight Rating (GVWR). Maximum to which a vehicle can be loaded,
according to the manufacturer; includes dry weight of the vehicle plus all
fuel, water, supplies, and passengers.
Ground-Mounted Equipment. Any equipment that is affixed to the ground and
extends above the natural grade.
Guest Room. A room or rooms used, or intended to be used, by a guest for
sleeping purposes, and in which no provision is made for cooking.
Health Club. A place of assembly and activity where membership may be required
and is directed toward the general public with the commercial promotion of
sports and physical fitness. Uses include, but are not limited to, personal
training, gymnastics, martial arts, aerobics, exercise, and dance studios.
Home Occupation. Any activity engaged in by the occupant of a residential
dwelling unit, which is carried out for business purposes and which activity is
clearly incidental and secondary to the residential use of the premises, and
which activity does not change the residential character thereof. This includes
home offices used for conducting affairs of a recognized business, profession
or service solely by the occupant of the dwelling and does not involve the on-
site sale of products or client/patron site visitations.
Hotel (including Hotel/Suites). Any building or portion thereof occupied as the
more or less temporary abiding place of individuals and containing three or
more guest rooms, used, designated, or intended to be used, let, or hired out
to be occupied, or which are occupied by three or more individuals for
compensation, whether compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
Hub. The center of a wind generator rotor, which holds the blades in place and
attaches to the shaft.
Hub Height. The distance measured from natural grade to the center of the
turbine hub.
Impervious Surface. An artificial or natural surface that is highly resistant
to infiltration by water. It includes, but is not limited to, surfaces such as
compacted sand, clay or gravel as well as most conventionally surfaced streets,
roofs, swimming pools, sidewalks in excess of three feet in width, parking
lots, and other similar structures, but not including decks or platforms where
one-quarter inch gaps are provided between deck boards for water to drain.
Individual Sewage Treatment System. A sewage treatment system or part thereof,
serving a dwelling, building, structure, or other establishment, or group
thereof, and using sewage tanks or advanced treatment followed by soil
treatment and disposal. Individual sewage treatment system includes holding
tanks.
Intensive Vegetation Clearing (Shoreland). The complete removal of trees or
shrubs in a contiguous patch, strip, row, or block.
Interim Use. A temporary use of property until a particular date, until the
occurrence of a particular event, or until zoning regulations no longer allow
it.
Interim Use Permit. A permit issued in accordance with procedures specified in
this chapter, as a flexible device to enable the City Council to assign time
limits and conditions to a proposed use after consideration of current or
future adjacent uses and their functions.
Junk Yard. Any place where two or more vehicles not in running condition and/or
not licensed, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being
restored to operation or any land, building, or structure used for wrecking or
storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof, and including any commercial
salvaging and scavenging of any other goods, articles, or merchandise.
Kennel, Commercial. Any place where four or more domestic animals of one type,
over six months of age, are commercially kept, sold, boarded, bred, or
exhibited, except hospitals, clinics, and other premises operated by a licensed
veterinarian exclusively for the care and treatment of animals or any premises
requiring a kennel license as provided by Chapter 3 (Licenses), Section 390
(Animals) of the City Code.
Land Surveyor. Such persons licensed by the state as a land surveyor.
Landscaping. Plantings such as trees, flowers, grass, and shrubs, and
improvements directly related thereto.
Loading Space (Off-Street). A formally delineated space, area, or berth on the
same lot with a building, or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the
temporary parking of a vehicle or truck while loading or unloading merchandise
or materials.
Local Street. A type of road that functions to provide access to adjacent
properties and from properties to collectors and/or arterials. Speeds and
traffic volumes are typically lower than collector or arterials. This roadway
classification system is further defined in the Transportation Chapter of the
City Comprehensive Plan.
Lot (Shoreland). A parcel of land designated by plat, metes and bounds,
registered land survey, auditors plot, or other accepted means and separated
from other parcels or portions by said description for the purpose of sale,
lease, or separation.
Lot. One unit of a recorded plat or subdivision, which unit has frontage on a
public street and is occupied, or to be occupied, by a building and its
accessory buildings, and including as a minimum, such spaces as are required
under this chapter. Lots may be classified as follows:
Lot, Butt. A lot located at the end of a block, located between two corner
lots.
Lot, Corner. A lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets.
Lot, Interior. A lot other than a corner lot, including through lots.
Lot, Through. A lot fronting on two parallel streets.
Lot Area. The area of a lot in a horizontal plane bounded by the lot lines.
Lot Coverage. The total allowable amount of lot area, expressed as a
percentage, which may be covered by a principal use and its accessory
structures but not including uncovered porches, decks, ground level landings,
landscape structures, or recreational facilities.
Lot Depth. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line of a lot (the greater frontage of a corner lot shall be deemed its
depth and the lesser frontage its width).
Lot, Frontage. The front of a lot shall be, for purposes of complying with this
chapter, that boundary abutting a public right-of-way.
Lot Line. The property line bounding a lot, except that where any portion of a
lot extends into the public right-of-way, the lot line is deemed to be the
public right-of-way line for applying this chapter.
Lot Line, Front. That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street, and in the case of a corner lot, it shall be the shortest
dimension on a public street. If the dimensions of a corner lot are equal, the
front line shall be designated by the City Building Official.
Lot Line, Rear. That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line. If
the rear lot line is less than ten feet in length, or if the lot forms a point
at the rear, the rear lot line shall be a line ten feet in length within the
lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
Lot Line, Side. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front line or a rear lot
line.
Lot (of Record). A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described as of September 13, 1979, or approved by the city as a lot subsequent
to such date and which is occupied by or intended for occupancy by one
principal building or principal use together with any accessory buildings and
such open spaces as required by this chapter and having its principal frontage
upon a street.
Lot, Substandard. A lot or parcel of land which does not meet the minimum lot
area, structure setbacks, or other dimensional standards of this chapter.
Lot Width. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot depth, at the minimum front building setback line.
Lot Width (Shoreland). The shortest distance between lot lines measured at the
midpoint of the building line.
Lower-Potency Hemp Edible. As defined under M.S. § 342.01, subd. 50.
Lowest Floor (Floodplain). The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor.
Luxury Garage. A community of storage buildings governed by a homeowner’s
association, for the primary purposes of recreational storage and social
gatherings. Permissible uses shall include, but not be limited to, storage of
vehicles and recreational equipment, and the creation of social and
entertaining spaces for use by individuals and groups, as “man caves”, game
rooms, wet bars, wine cellars, kitchens and display rooms, and other similar
uses.
Machine Shop. A facility performing cutting, grinding, turning, honing,
milling, deburring, lapping, electrochemical machining, etching, or other
similar operations.
Manufactured Home. See “Dwelling, Manufactured Home.”
Manufactured Home (Floodplain). A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term “manufactured home” does not include the term “recreational vehicle.”
Manufactured Home Park. Any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon which two
or more occupied manufactured homes are located, either free of charge or for
compensation, and includes any building, structure, tent, vehicle, or enclosure
used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the manufactured home
park.
Mining. The extraction of land, gravel, rock, soil, or other material from the
land in the amount of 1,000 cubic yards or more and the removing thereof from
the site without processing shall be mining. The only exclusion from this
definition shall be removal of materials associated with construction of a
building, provided such removal is an approved item in the building permit.
Model Home. A home which is similar to others in a new residential development
and is temporarily open to regular public inspections for the purpose of
selling other homes in the development.
Monopole Tower. A tower constructed of tapered tubes that fit together
symmetrically and are stacked one section on top of another and bolted to a
concrete foundation without support cables.
Motel (Motor Hotel). A building or group of detached, semi-detached, or
attached buildings containing guest rooms or dwellings, with garage or parking
space conveniently located to each unit, and which is designed, used, or
intended to be used primarily for the accommodation of transient guests
traveling by automobile.
Motor Freight Terminal (Truck Terminal). A building in which freight brought by
motor truck is assembled and sorted for routing in intrastate and interstate
shipment.
Motor Fuel Station. A place where gasoline is stored only in underground tanks,
kerosene or motor oil and lubricants or grease, for operation of automobiles,
are retailed directly to the public on premises, and including minor
accessories and services for automobiles, but not including automobile major
repairs and rebuilding. Also sometimes described as an automobile service
station.
Motor Home. A vehicle that provides temporary living quarters and is self-
propelled or capable of being towed on public roads. Temporary living quarters
shall mean:
         1.   The vehicle is not used as a residence; and
         2.   The vehicle is used for temporary living quarters by the owner or
occupant while engaged in recreational or vacation activities away from the
property.
Motor Vehicle Sales. The use of any building or land area for the display and
sale of new or used automobiles, trucks, vans, boats, trailers, or recreational
vehicles.
Non-Conforming Structure or Use, Illegal. A structure or use that has been
established in a manner that does not conform to the applicable conditions
required by the regulations in place at the time the structure or use was
established.
Non-Conforming Structure or Use, Legal. Any lawfully established structure or
use which, on April 26, 2023 (effective date of the ordinance from which this
chapter is derived) does not conform to the applicable conditions if the
structure or use was to be erected under the guidance of this chapter.
Non-Conformity (Shoreland). Any legal use, structure, or parcel of land already
in existence, recorded or authorized before the adoption of official controls
or amendments thereto that would not have been permitted to become established
under the terms of the official controls as now written, if the official
controls had been in effect prior to the date it was established, recorded, or
authorized.
Noxious Matter or Material. Material capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction, or capable of causing detrimental effects on
the physical or economic well-being of individuals.
Nursery, Farm. A wholesale operation for the cultivating, harvesting, and sale
of plants, bushes, trees, and other nursery items grown on-site or established
in the ground prior to sale.
Obstruction (Floodplain). Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across,
or projecting into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory floodplain which may
impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself
or by catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
Occupancy. The purpose for which a building is used or designed. The term shall
also include the building or room housing such use. Change of occupancy is not
intended to include change of tenants or proprietors.
Occupant. Any person (including owner or operator) living, sleeping, cooking,
or eating within a dwelling unit.
Office Business (General). An establishment located within a building or
portion of a building for the conduct of business activities involving
predominantly professional, administrative, or clerical service operations
including attorneys, financial advisors, consultants, insurance, travel, and
other uses of similar character.
Office of Cannabis Management. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as "OCM" in this Code.
Open Loop Geothermal System. A system that uses groundwater as a heat transfer
fluid by drawing groundwater from a well to a heat pump and then discharging
the water over land, directly in a water body or into an injection well.
Open Sales Lot. Any open land used or occupied for the purpose of buying,
selling, and/or renting merchandise and for the storing of same prior to sale.
Open Space. Any open area not covered by structures, including, but not limited
to, the following uses: required or established yard areas, sidewalks, trails,
recreation areas, waterbodies, shorelands, watercourses, wetlands, ground water
recharge areas, floodplain, floodway, flood fringe, erodible slopes, woodland,
and soils with severe limitation for development.
Ordinary High Water Level (Shoreland). The boundary of public waters and
wetlands, and shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which
has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ordinary high water level is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel. For reservoirs and flowages, the ordinary high water level shall be
the operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
Outdoor Storage (Exterior Storage). Any open land used or occupied for the
purpose of outdoor storage of material, equipment, or products. Outdoor storage
shall not include the temporary parking of licensed and operable motor vehicles
in designated parking stalls, or trucks being serviced in designated loading
areas or uses defined as “temporary outdoor seasonal sales.”
Outdoor Wood Burner. Any equipment, device, or apparatus, or any part thereof,
which is installed or constructed for the purpose of combustion of fuel to
produce heat, hot water, and/or energy that is used as a component of a heating
system providing heat for the interior of a building or for a pool, where the
equipment, device, or apparatus is located outside of the building or pool for
which the heat, hot water, and/or energy is to be generated. Said device shall
be deemed to be outdoors, even if it is located in a building.
Outlot. A parcel of land, included in a plat, which is smaller than the minimum
size permitted for lots and which is thereby declared unbuildable until
combined through platting with additional land; or, a parcel which is included
in a plat and which is subject to future platting prior (based upon an approved
preliminary plat) to development; or a parcel of land which is included in a
plat and which is designated for public or private open space, right-of-way,
utilities, or other similar purposes.
Owner. An individual, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust,
or any other legal entity holding an equitable or legal ownership interest in
land, buildings, structures, dwelling unit(s), or other property.
Parcel. An individual lot or tract of land.
Parking Facility. A commercial parking facility owned and operated by the city
or by a private entity and designed to accommodate the off-street parking of
motor vehicles. Such parking may be located in a structured parking facility, a
surface lot, or a combination thereof.
Parking Lot. Any off-street area that is one-level, surfaced, open-to-the-air,
and used for parking vehicles.
Parking Pad. A pad used for parking vehicles and trailers, not considered part
of the driveway.
Parking Space. A suitably surfaced and permanently maintained area, either
within or outside a building, of sufficient size to store one standard
automobile exclusive of any driveway or other circulation area, accessible from
a street, alley, or maneuvering area.
Parkway. A divided or undivided major thoroughfare having controlled access to
adjacent properties and designated as such in the Comprehensive Plan. A parkway
also contains a planter strip for planting of low ground cover and street trees
and may include pedestrian or bicycle trails.
Patio. A covered or uncovered, surfaced outdoor living area located at grade,
adjacent to and accessible from a dwelling.
Performance Standard. Regulatory language stating the minimum requirement or
the maximum allowable limit on the effects or characteristics of a use or
structure.
Permitted Use. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular district
or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations, and
performance standards (if any) of such districts.
Person. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
organization of any kind. “Person” also means an adult who is handicapped by
reason of mental retardation, mental illness, chemical dependency, or physical
handicap, and a child, whether handicapped or not, as defined by M.S. §
245A.02, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time.
Personal Services. Establishments providing non-medically related services,
including barber shops, beauty salon, electrolysis, manicurist, tanning parlor,
physical therapy, therapeutic massage, body piercing, shiatsu, tattooing, and
complementary and alternative health care practices defined by M.S. Chapter
146A, as it may be amended from time to time.
Photovoltaic System. A solar energy system that converts solar energy directly
into electricity.
Pipeline. This term may mean either of the following:
         1.   A pipe with a nominal diameter of six inches or more that is used
to transport hazardous liquids, but does not include pipe used to transport a
hazardous liquid by gravity, and pipe used to transport or store a hazardous
liquid within a refining, storage, or manufacturing facility; or
         2.   A pipe operated at a pressure of more than 275 pounds per square
inch that carries gas.
Place of Public Accommodation. A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
Places of Worship. Any place of worship, including any church, synagogue,
temple, mosque, or other building or facility, primarily engaged in religious
worship. The term does not include uses, such as schools, recreational
facilities, day care or child care facilities, kindergartens, dormitories, or
other facilities, for temporary or permanent residences, which are connected or
related to the worship facility or the principal buildings on the site, or are
located on the same site, even if the curriculum or services offered as part of
such use includes religious services and/or training.
Planned Unit Development (PUD). A zoning designation which allows a mixing of
buildings and uses which cannot be otherwise addressed under this chapter, and/
or whereby internal site design standard deviations from this chapter may be
allowed to improve site design and operation.
Planned Unit Development (Shoreland). A type of development characterized by a
unified site design for a number of dwelling units or dwelling sites on a
parcel, whether for sale, rent, or lease, and also usually involving clustering
of these units or sites to provide areas of common open space, density
increases, and a mix of structure types and land uses. These developments may
be organized and operated as condominiums, cooperatives, full fee ownership,
commercial enterprises, or any combination of these, or cluster subdivisions of
dwelling units, residential condominiums, townhouses, apartment buildings,
campgrounds, recreational vehicle parks, resorts, hotels, motels, and
conversions of structures and land uses to these uses.
Planned Unit Development, Commercial (Shoreland). Uses that typically provide
transient, short-term lodging spaces, rooms, or parcels and their operations
are essentially service oriented. For example, hotel/motel accommodations,
resorts, recreation vehicle and camping parks, and other primarily service
oriented activities are commercial planned unit developments.
Planned Unit Development, Residential (Shoreland). A use where the nature of
residency is non-transient and the major or primary focus of the development is
not service oriented. For example, residential apartments, time share
condominiums, townhouses, cooperatives, and full fee ownership residences would
be considered as residential planned unit developments.
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission of the city, except when otherwise
designated.
Plat. A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all the requirements of
Minnesota Statutes, the city, and in such form as required by the county for
purposes of recording.
Platform. A detached deck, having no walls or roof, that is no more than 30
inches above average ground level at any point.
Play and Recreational Facilities. Facilities customary and incidental to the
principal use of the site intended for the enjoyment and convenience of the
residents of the principal use and their occasional guests. Such facilities may
include swing sets, play sculptures, sand boxes, picnic tables, basketball
courts, tennis courts, swimming pools, barbecue grills, patios, and the like.
Preliminary License Approval. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business license
for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17.
Premises. Land together with the buildings and structures thereon.
Principal Structure or Use (Floodplain). All uses or structures that are not
accessory uses or structures.
Principal Structure or Use. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished
from subordinate or accessory uses. “Principal use” may be either permitted,
interim, conditional, or allowed by administrative permit. Such a use is to be
interpreted in the general, broad sense of a given use classification, such as
residential, commercial, industrial, and the like, and is comprised of and
limited to one or more activities specified in a given zoning district.
Property Line. The legal boundaries of a parcel of property.
Public, Educational, and Religious Buildings. Buildings arranged for public use
(as defined below), the purposes of instruction, or religious worship.
Public Notice. Notice placed in the official city newspaper stating time,
location, and date of meeting and description of topic.
Public Place. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk; any enclosed,
indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited to,
restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment; hospitals; nursing
homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common areas of rental
apartment buildings, and other places of public accommodation.
Public Use. Uses owned or operated by municipal, school district, county,
state, or other governmental units.
Public Utility. Persons, corporations, or governments supplying gas, electric,
transportation, water, sewer, or landline telephone service to the general
public. For the purpose of this chapter, commercial wireless telecommunication
service facilities shall not be considered public utility uses, and are defined
separately.
Public Waters. Waters of the state as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 15 and
15a, as amended from time to time.
         1.   Public Waters, General Development. Those waters whose shores are
generally characterized by medium density residential development with or
without limited service oriented commercial development.
         2.   Public Waters, Natural Environment. Generally small, often
shallow lakes with limited capacities for assimilating the impacts of
development and recreational use. They often have adjacent lands with
substantial constraints for development such as high water tables, exposed
bedrock, and unsuitable soils. These lakes, particularly in rural areas,
usually do not have much existing development or recreational use.
         3.   Public Waters, Recreational Development. Generally medium-sized
lakes of varying depths and shapes with a variety of landform, soil, and
groundwater situations on the lands around them. They often are characterized
by moderate levels of recreational use and existing development. Development
consists mainly of seasonal and year-round residences and recreational-oriented
commercial uses. Many of these lakes have capacities for accommodating
additional development and use.
         4.   Public Waters, Tributary Rivers. Segments consisting of
watercourses mapped in the Protected Waters Inventory that have not been
assigned one of the river classes. These segments have a wide variety of
existing land and recreational use characteristics. The segments have
considerable potential for additional development and recreational use,
particularly those located near roads and cities.
Reach (Floodplain). A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal
segment of a stream or river influenced by a natural or human-made obstruction.
In an urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive
bridge crossings would most typically constitute a reach.
Recreation, Indoor, Commercial. A commercial recreational land use conducted
entirely within a building, including arcade, athletic and health clubs,
bowling alley, community center, conference center, exhibit hall, gymnasium,
movie theater, pool or billiard hall, skating rink, swimming pool, tennis
court, and the like.
Recreation, Outdoor, Commercial. A commercial recreation facility that is
primarily an open-air facility, such as baseball fields, swimming pools,
skating rinks, golf driving ranges, or miniature golf facilities.
Recreation, Public. All uses that are commonly provided at parks, playgrounds,
community centers, and other such sites owned and operated by a unit of
government for the purpose of providing recreation to the public.
Recreational Facility. Parks, sports complex, and/or other areas of land having
facilities for rest and/or recreational use or providing open space for leisure
activities, and customarily used by the general public for such uses and
activities.
Recreational Vehicle. A vehicular type of portable structure without permanent
foundation which can be towed, hauled, or driven and primarily designed as
temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping, and travel use, and
including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping
trailers, and self-propelled motor homes.
Recreational Vehicle (Floodplain). A vehicle that is built on a single chassis,
is 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
is designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck,
and is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. For the
purposes of this chapter, the term recreational vehicle shall be synonymous
with the term travel trailer/travel vehicle.
Registered Land Survey. A survey map of registered land designed to simplify a
complicated metes and bounds description, designating the same into a tract or
tracts of a registered land survey number.
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (Floodplain). An elevation no lower than
one foot above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
Religious Institution. A building, together with its accessory buildings and
use, where persons regularly assemble for religious purposes and related social
events and which building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, is
maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain religious
ceremonies and purposes.
Residential Facility, Licensed (Group Home). As defined in M.S. § 462.357,
subd. 7 and 8, as it may be amended from time to time.
Residential Treatment Facility. As defined under M.S. § 245.462, subd. 23.
Restaurant. An establishment that involves the preparation of food and drink,
served to and consumed by patrons primarily on the premises or for carry out.
Retail Registration. An approved registration issued by Sherburne County to a
state-licensed cannabis retail business.
Retail Sales. An establishment engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the
general public for personal or household consumption and rendering services
incidental to the sale of such goods.
Retaining Wall. A structure constructed and erected to prevent erosion between
two areas or pieces of property of different elevations.
Rezoning. The process whereby the zoning classification or specific regulations
applicable to a property are changed from one district to another, also
referred to as “zoning map amendment.”
Right-of-Way. Land acquired by reservation or dedication intended for public
use, and intended to be occupied or which is occupied by a street, trail,
railroad, utility lines, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary sewer, storm
sewer, or other similar uses.
Riparian. Of, on, or pertaining to the bank of a natural course of water.
Road. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, land, place, or
however otherwise designated. Ingress and egress easements shall not be
considered roads.
Roof Line. That line at which an exterior wall surface of a building departs
from the vertical plane and, typically, where the horizontal plane of the roof
commences. Mansard-like roof treatments may be considered as extensions of a
building wall surface when the mansard-like treatment is considered as part of
the roof.
Roof- or Building-Mounted Solar Energy System. A solar energy system (panels)
that are mounted to the roof or building using brackets, stands, or other
apparatus.
School. A public school as defined under M.S. § 120A.05 or a nonpublic school
that must meet the reporting requirements under M.S. § 120A.24.
Screening. A method of visually shielding or obscuring one abutting or nearby
structure or use from another by fencing, walls, berms, or densely planted
vegetation.
Self-Service Storage Facility. A building or group of buildings in a
controlled-access, screened, and secured compound that contains individual
compartmentalized and controlled-access storage spaces of varying sizes which
are leased or rented for storage purposes on an individual basis.
Semi-Trailer. A trailer with a set or sets of wheels at the rear only, which
may be supported in front by a truck, tractor, or towing vehicle, and which is
used for the purpose of, but not limited to, storage, transportation of
freight, or holding freight for sale or lease.
Septic System Drainfield. Subsurface wastewater disposal facilities used to
remove contaminants and impurities from the liquid that emerges after anaerobic
digestion in a septic tank.
Service Business. An establishment that provides useful labor, maintenance,
repair, and activities incidental to business production and distribution.
Setback. The minimum required distance between a building or structure and the
property line nearest thereto; within shoreland districts, it shall also mean
the minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage treatment system,
or other facility and an ordinary high water level, sewage treatment system,
top of a bluff, road, highway, property line, or other facility. In cases where
there is no foundation, setbacks shall be measured to the closest part of the
structure to the lot line and/or right-of-way line and/or ordinary high
watermark.
Setback, Front. The minimum required distance by which any building or
structure must be separated from the front lot line.
Setback, Rear. The minimum required distance by which any building or structure
must be separated from the rear lot line.
Setback, Riparian. The ordinary required distance between a structure and the
ordinary high water mark.
Setback, Side. The minimum required distance by which any building or structure
must be separated from the site lot line.
Sewage. Any water-carried domestic waste, exclusive of footing and roof
drainage and storm water runoff of any residence, industry, agriculture, or
commercial establishment, whether treated or untreated and includes the liquid
wastes produced by bathing, laundry, and culinary operation, and from toilets
and floor drains.
Sewage, Raw. Sewage which has not been subjected to any treatment process.
Sexually Oriented Uses. Uses which include a sexually oriented arcade; sexually
oriented bookstore, sexually oriented video store, sexually oriented store;
sexually oriented cabaret; sexually oriented conversion/rap parlor’ sexually
oriented massage parlor; sexually oriented motel; sexually oriented motion
picture theater; sexually oriented steam room, bath house or sauna; sexually
oriented theater; escort agency; nude model studio; sexual encounter center and
other premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses, or places open to some
or all members of the public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction, or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” which are capable of being seen by
members of the public. Activities classified as “obscene” as defined by M.S. §
617.241, as it may be amended from time to time, are not included.
Specified Anatomical Area. Any of the following:
         1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; or
         2.   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
opaquely covered.
Specified Sexual Activities. Any of the following:
         1.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
         2.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
         3.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
         4.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in items 1 through 3 above.
Sexually Oriented Uses, Accessory. The offering of retail goods for sale which
are classified as sexually oriented uses on a limited scale and which are
incidental to the primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the
establishment. Examples of such items include the sale of sexually oriented
books or magazines, or the sale and/or rental of sexually oriented motion
pictures, the sale of sexually oriented novelties.
Sexually Oriented Uses, Principal. The offering of goods and/or services which
are classified as sexually oriented uses as a primary or sole activity of a
business or establishment and include, but are not limited to, the following:
Escort. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
Escort Agency. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes, for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
Establishment. Means and includes any of the following:
         1.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as
a new business;
         2.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
         3.   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
         4.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
Nude Model Studio. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity or
displays “specified anatomical area” is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other
persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
Nudity or State of Nudity. Described as follows:
         1.   The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus, male genitals,
female genitals, or female breasts; or
         2.   The state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human buttock,
anus, male genitals, female genitals, or areola of the female breast.
Semi-Nude. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the genitals,
pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of the body
covered by supporting straps or devices.
Sexual Encounter Center. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
         1.   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
         2.   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
Sexually Oriented Arcade. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
Sexually Oriented Bookstore, Sexually Oriented Video Store, or Sexually
Oriented Store. A commercial establishment which, as a principal business
purpose, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or
more of the following:
         1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, or video reproductions,
compact discs, computer software, digital recordings, slides, or other visual
representations which depict or describe “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas;” or
         2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with “specified sexual activities.”
Sexually Oriented Cabaret. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
         1.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
         2.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities;” or
         3.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, compact discs,
computer software, digital recordings, or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
Sexually Oriented Conversation/Rap Parlor. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion between an employee of the
establishment and a customer, if such service is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas.”
Sexually Oriented Massage Parlor. A massage parlor which excludes minors by
reason of age, or which provides, for any form of consideration, the rubbing,
striking, kneading, tapping, or rolling of the body, if the service provided by
the massage parlor is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
Sexually Oriented Motel. A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment
which:
         1.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of
consideration; provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmission,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas;” and has a sign
visible from the public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this
adult type of photographic reproductions;
         2.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
         3.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the
room for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Theater. A commercial establishment where, for
any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or
similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized
by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas.”
Sexually Oriented Sauna. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or
which provides, for any form of consideration, a steam bath or heat bathing
room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxing, or reducing, utilizing steam or
hot air as a cleaning, relaxing, or reducing agent, if the service provided by
the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
Sexually Oriented Theater. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state
of nudity or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities.”
Shopping Center. A group of commercial establishments built on a site which is
planned and developed as an operating unit and typically sharing common space
and services such as parking, maintenance, and advertising.
Shore Impact Zone (Shoreland). Land located between the ordinary high water
level of a public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the
structure setback.
Shoreland (Shoreland). Land located within the following distances from public
waters: 1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond, or
flowage; and 300 feet from a river or stream, or the landward extent of a
floodplain designated by ordinance on a river or stream, whichever is greater.
The limits of shorelands may be reduced whenever the waters involved are
bounded by topographic divides which extend landward from the waters for lesser
distances and when approved by the Commissioner.
Short-Term Rental. Any dwelling or portion thereof that is available for use or
is used for overnight accommodations or lodging to guests for compensation for
periods of less than 30 consecutive days.
Sign. The use of any words, numerals, figures, devices, or trademarks by which
anything is made known such as are used to show an individual, firm,
profession, product, or business, and are visible to the general public.
Site Plan. A plan for the development of a tract of land drawn to scale,
including, but not limited to, identifying the proposed uses; the location and
dimensions of all proposed structures; public and private streets and roadways
on or abutting such tract, parking areas, ground covers; total acreage of the
tract, legal description, number of dwelling units, if any; the gross floor
area of all buildings and structures; and the graphic scale to which the plan
is drawn.
Site Survey. Inspections of an area where work is proposed, to gather
information for a design or an estimate to complete the initial tasks required
for an outdoor activity.
Sketch Plan. A rough site plan and supportive text depicting the location,
general purpose, general type of land use and circulation pattern, primary
relationships between site elements and between the proposed development and
surrounding development, proposed general schedule of development, and
information on the proposed developer.
Slope. The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually
expressed in percentage or degrees.
Slope, Steep. Land where agricultural activity or development is either not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site’s
soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available county soil surveys
or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Where specific information is not available, steep slopes are
lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over horizontal distances of
50 feet or more, that are not bluffs.
Solar Collector. A device, or combination of devices, structure, or part of a
device or structure that transforms direct solar energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy.
Solar Energy. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in the
form of heat or light by a solar collector.
Solar Energy System. A device or structural design feature, a substantial
purpose of which is to provide daylight for interior lighting or provide for
the collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for space heating or
cooling, electricity generation, or water heating.
Solar Farm. A commercial facility with a generating capacity of more than five
megawatts that converts sunlight into electricity, whether by photovoltaics
(PV), concentrating solar thermal devices (CST), or other conversion
technology, for the primary purpose of wholesale sales of generated
electricity. A solar farm is the primary land use for the parcel on which it is
located.
Solar Garden. A community solar energy system with a generating capacity of
less than five megawatts.
Sound Barrier. A structure constructed of sound dampening material intended to
reduce the audible noise level between two areas or pieces of property.
State. The State of Minnesota.
State License. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota's Office of
Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
Storable Swimming Pool. A swimming pool with nonmetallic, molded polymeric
walls or inflatable fabric walls constructed on or above the ground which is so
constructed that it may be readily disassembled for storage and reassembled to
its original integrity.
Story. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it, or, if there is not a floor above it,
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
Story, Half. A story with at least two exterior sides meeting a sloping roof
not more than two feet above the floor of the story.
Street. A public right-of-way which affords primary means of access to abutting
property, and shall also include avenue, highway, road, or way.
Street Frontage. The proximity of a parcel of land to one or more streets. An
interior lot has one street frontage and a corner lot and through lot have two
frontages.
Street Width. The width of the right-of-way, measured at right angles to the
centerline of the street.
Structure. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings, sheds,
detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, and travel trailers/vehicles.
Structure (Floodplain). Anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to,
buildings, factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, and
recreational vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in
subsection 1004.02, Subd. 3.2 and other similar items.
Structure Height. A distance to be measured from the mean ground level to the
top of the structure.
Structure (Shoreland). Any building or appurtenance, including decks, except
aerial or underground utility lines such as sewer, electric, telephone,
telegraph, gas lines, towers, poles, and other supporting facilities.
Structure, Public. An edifice or building of any kind, or any piece of work
artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner which is owned or rented, and operated by a federal, state, or local
government agency.
Structural Alteration. Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as bearing
walls, columns, beams, girders, or foundations.
Subdivision. The separation of an area, parcel, or tract of land under single
ownership into two or more parcels, tracts, lots, or long-term leasehold
interests where the division necessitates the creation of streets, roads, or
alleys, for residential, commercial, industrial, or other use, or any
combination thereof.
Subdivision (Shoreland). Land that is divided for the purpose of sale, rent, or
lease, including planned unit developments.
Substandard Use (Shoreland). Any use of shoreland in existence prior to the
date of enactment of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived (October
29, 1985), which shall be permitted within the applicable zoning districts, but
do not meet the minimum lot area, setbacks, or other dimensional requirements
of this chapter, shall be considered substandard uses.
Substantial Damage (Floodplain). Damage of any origin sustained by a structure
where the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
Substantial Improvement (Floodplain). Within any consecutive 365-day period,
any reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
“start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
         1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         2.   Any alteration of an “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
“historic structure.” For the purpose of this chapter, “historic structure”
shall be as defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1, as it may be amended from time to
time.
Surface, Improved. A surface that is either concrete, asphalt, or made of
pavers.
Surface, Semi-Improved. A surface that is gravel, class five gravel, crushed
rock, or made of similar composite.
Surface, Unimproved. A surface that is grass, compacted earth, or naturally
occurring.
Surface Water-Oriented Commercial Use. The use of land for commercial purposes,
where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral part of the
normal conduct of business. Marinas, resorts, and restaurants with transient
docking facilities are examples of such use.
Surveyor. A land surveyor registered under state law.
Swimming Pool. Any structure intended for swimming or recreational bathing that
contains water over 24 inches at any point or a surface area exceeding 150
square feet. This includes in-ground, above ground and on-ground swimming
pools; hot tubs; portable and non-portable spas; and fixed-in-place wading
pools.
Taproom. An establishment offering for consumption malt liquor produced in an
on-premises or adjacent brewery. M.S. Chapter 340A rules, as they may be
amended from time to time, apply.
Temporary Outdoor Seasonal Sales. Sidewalk sales (maximum 14 consecutive days
per calendar year), special event sales (maximum 14 consecutive days per
calendar year) and the temporary sale of agricultural produce, Christmas trees,
fireworks, flowers, food vendors such as ice cream, hot dogs, popcorn stands,
and the like, sold and conducted by the operators of a legitimate, established
business within the appropriate zoning district in the city.
Temporary Structure. A structure not permanently erected on a site with a
foundation that is used for emergency purposes or used on a construction site
for offices and equipment storage during construction of a permanent structure.
Total Height. The highest point above natural grade reached by a rotor tip or
any other part of a wind turbine.
Toxic and Hazardous Wastes. Waste materials, including, but not limited to,
poisons, pesticides, herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological wastes,
radioactive materials, flammable or explosive materials, and similar harmful
chemicals and wastes which require special handling and must be disposed of in
a manner which conserves the environment and protects the public health and
safety.
Transit-Oriented Development (TOD). The functional integration of land use and
transit via the creation of compact, walkable, mixed-use communities within
walking distance of a transit stop or station.
Transit Station. A building or area which serves as a regular stopping place
for busses, commuter rail, and/or other forms of urban public transportation.
Transmission Line. Those high capacity conductors generally rated 115 kilovolts
and above and associated structures which are used to carry electricity from
points of generation to distribution points such as substations and
distribution lines.
Tree, Significant. Trees which are healthy, measure a minimum of eight inches
in diameter at a distance of 54 inches above ground, and are a minimum of four
inches in diameter for conifers.
Tree Canopy, Overstory. With respect to a stand with a forest of more than one
story, that portion of the trees forming the upper or uppermost canopy layer.
Tree Canopy, Understory. With respect to a stand with a forest of more than one
story, that portion of the trees forming the lower or lowest canopy layer.
Use. The purpose or activity for which land, premises, or a building thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied,
utilized, or maintained, and shall include the performance of such activity as
defined by the performance standards of this chapter.
Variance. A modification of or variation from the provision of this chapter
consistent with the state enabling statute for municipalities, as applied to a
specific property and granted pursuant to the standards and procedures of this
chapter, except that a variance shall not be used for modification of the
allowable uses within a district and shall not allow uses that are prohibited.
Variance (Floodplain). A modification of a specific permitted development
standard required in an official control including this chapter to allow an
alternative development standard not stated as acceptable in the official
control, but only as applied to a particular property for the purpose of
alleviating a hardship, practical difficulty or property for the purpose of
alleviating a hardship, practical difficulty, or unique circumstance as defined
and elaborated upon in a community’s respective zoning ordinance.
Vehicle, Commercial. A motor vehicle that meets the following:
         1.   The vehicle is a dump truck, a step van, a tow-truck, a truck
tractor with or without a semi-trailer, a tank truck, a tractor, a bus or
coach, a cargo truck, a construction vehicle or equipment, a van or pick-up
with a manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of more than one ton;
or has a GVWR of 12,000 pounds or more;
         2.   Commercial equipment has been added to the vehicle such as
winches or snowplows;
         3.   Commercial racks have been added to the vehicle for the purpose
of holding equipment or materials;
         4.   The vehicle is a limousine or taxi; and
         5.   The vehicle is a trailer loaded with another commercial vehicle
or commercial equipment.
Vehicle, Motorized. A vehicle shall include, but is not limited to: any vehicle
with a motor/engine, a passenger automobile, van, pickup truck, truck-tractor,
converted bus, coach, rig, motorcycle, all-terrain-vehicle, snowmobile, race
car, dune buggy, boat, jet-ski, lawn tractor, riding lawn mower, or other
deemed a motor vehicle by the City Police Department or Zoning Administrator.
Vehicle, Non-Motorized. A vehicle that is not strictly self-propelled; which
includes a semi-trailer, storage trailer, trailer used for carrying motorized
vehicles, equipment, or materials, traveler trailer, chassis-mounted camper,
converted bus, boat, or other deemed a non-motorized vehicle by the City Police
Department or Zoning Administrator.
Veterinary Clinic. A clinic operated by a licensed veterinarian exclusively for
the diagnosis, treatment, correction, relief, or prevention of animal disease,
deformity, effect, injury, or other physical or mental conditions; the
performance of obstetrical procedures for animals, including determination of
pregnancy and correction of sterility or infertility; and the rendering of
advice or recommendations with regard to any of the above.
Waste. Infectious waste, nuclear waste, pathological waste, sewage sludge,
solid waste, and hazardous waste.
Waste Facility. Property used for the accumulation, storage, processing, or
disposal of waste.
Waste, Hazardous. Any refuse, sludge, or other waste material or combination of
refuse, sludge, or other waste materials in solid, semi-solid, liquid, or
contained gaseous form which because of its quantity, concentration, or
chemical, physical, or infectious characteristics may:
         1.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
an increase in serious or irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness;
or
         2.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when not properly treated, stored, or transported, or disposed
of, or otherwise managed. Categories of hazardous waste materials include, but
are not limited to: explosives, flammable, oxidizers, poisons, irritants, and
corrosives. Hazardous waste does not include source, special nuclear, or
byproduct material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended from
time to time, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq.
Waste, Infectious. Laboratory waste, blood, regulated body fluids, sharps, and
research animal waste that have not been decontaminated.
Waste, Pathological. Human tissue and body parts removed accidentally or during
surgery or autopsy intended for disposal. Pathological waste does not include
teeth.
Waterbody. A body of water (lake, pond) or a depression of land or expanded
part of a river, or an enclosed basin that holds water and is surrounded by
land.
Watercourse. A channel or depression through which water flows year-round or
intermittently, such as rivers, streams, or creeks.
Watercraft. Any contrivance used or designed for navigation on water.
Wetlands. Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems where the
water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is covered by shallow
water.
Wind Energy Conversion System (WECS). Any device that is designed to convert
wind power to another form of energy such as electricity or heat (also referred
to by such common names as wind charger, wind turbine, and windmill).
Wind Energy System. An electrical generating facility that consists of a wind
turbine, feeder line(s), associated controls, and may include a tower.
Yard. A required open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed by a
structure from its lowest level to the sky except as permitted in this chapter.
The yard extends along the lot line at right angles to such lot line to a depth
or width specified in the setback regulations for the zoning district in which
such lot is located.
Yard, Front. A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines and extending from the abutting street right-of-way line
to depth required in the setback regulations for the zoning district in which
such lot is located. In the case of a corner lot abutting one or more streets,
both yards shall be considered front yards.
Yard, Rear. The portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal building
located between the rear line of the building and the rear lot line and
extending for the full width of the lot.
Yard, Required. That distance specified in the yard requirements pertaining to
setbacks. “Setbacks” and “required yards” are used interchangeably.
Yard, Side. The yard extending along the side lot line between the front and
rear yards to a depth or width required by setback regulations for the zoning
district in which such lot is located.
Zoning Amendment. A change authorized by the city either in the allowed use
within a district or in the boundaries of a district.
Zoning District. An area or areas of the city (as delineated on the zoning map)
set aside for specific uses with specific regulations and provisions for use
and development as defined by this chapter.
Zoning District, Overlay. A zoning district containing regulations superimposed
upon other zoning district regulations and superseding the underlying zoning
district use regulations.
Zoning District, Underlying (Base). All zoning districts except overlay zoning
districts.
Zoning Map. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter as part thereof,
designating the zoning districts.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 8-28-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-22-2025)
SECTION 1002: ADMINISTRATION
§ 1002.01 Duties of Zoning Administrator.
This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning Administrator,
who is appointed by the City Administrator. The Zoning Administrator may
institute in the name of the city any appropriate actions or proceedings
against a violator as provided by statute, charter, or ordinance. The Zoning
Administrator’s duties shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   Subd. 1.   Oversee the creation and maintenance of permanent and current
records of the zoning ordinance, including, but not limited to, all maps,
amendments, conditional use permits, vacations, variances, appeals, interim use
permits, administrative permits, and site plans required by law;
   Subd. 2.   Oversee all applications for the Board of Zoning Adjustments and
Appeals, Planning Commission, or City Council for amendments, conditional use
permits, vacations, variances, appeals, interim use permits, administrative
permits, and site plans as required herein;
   Subd. 3.   Examine all applications pertaining to use of land, buildings, or
structures, and approve applications when the application conforms with the
provisions of this chapter;
   Subd. 4.   Interpret the application and provisions of this chapter, which
may be appealed to the Planning Commission and City Council pursuant to the
process identified herein;
   Subd. 5.   Serve as a liaison to the Planning Commission and prepare
applications for zoning related matters, prepare and submit public hearing
notices to the official newspaper, prepare reports and other information for
Planning Commission and City Council meetings and enforce all zoning
regulations, provisions and conditions pertaining to the approval of
applications by the Planning Commission and City Council; and
   Subd. 6.   Provide technical assistance to the City Council and Planning
Commission.
§ 1002.02 Enforcement.
   Subd. 1.   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designated agent shall in
the name of the city take any appropriate actions or proceedings to enforce
this chapter. These actions may include, but are not limited to:
         1.   Conduct periodic inspections of buildings, structures, and use of
land to determine compliance with the terms of this chapter;
         2.   Notify, in writing, any person responsible for violating a
provision of this chapter, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering
the action necessary to correct it and a time for compliance;
         3.   Order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or
structures; order removal of illegal buildings, structures, additions, or
alterations; order discontinuance of illegal work being done; or take any other
action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent
violation of its provisions, including cooperation with the City Attorney in
the prosecution of complaints;
         4.   Issue stop work orders of any and all site improvement activities
or construction when and where a violation of the provisions of this chapter
has been documented; and
         5.   Issue zoning certificates establishing the existence of legal
non-conforming uses.
   Subd. 2.   The City Council may direct the Clerk or other person appointed
by the City Council to administer this chapter to send a notice of any
violation. When so directed, a notice of a violation shall be mailed by the
Clerk or other person appointed by the City Council to administer this chapter
to any person who, in the opinion of the Clerk or other person appointed by the
City Council to administer this chapter, is in violation of the provisions of
the zoning code. The notice shall state the nature of the violation and the
penalty for the violation. A person who is issued a notice of violation may
appeal the issuance to the City Council within 90 days.
   Subd. 3.   If the person to whom the notice of violation is directed fails
to comply with the applicable provisions of the zoning code, that person is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided by Section 130.
   Subd. 4.   Each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
   Subd. 5.   The city may also enforce any provision of this Zoning Code by
mandamus, injunction, or any other appropriate remedy in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   Subd. 6.   A person who knowingly makes or submits a false statement or
document in connection with an application or procedure required by this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided by Section
130.
   Subd. 7.   A person who violates, fails to comply with or assists, directs
or permits the violation of a performance standards must reimburse the city or
its agent for the actual costs of the tests, measurements or other procedures
necessary to demonstrate that violation.
   Subd. 8.   A violation of this chapter or a condition imposed under this
chapter is a public nuisance. The public nuisance may be abated in accordance
with Chapter 5.
   Subd. 9.   No section or part of this chapter designating the duties of an
official, employee or appointee of the city may be construed to make that
official, employee or appointee liable for the penalty provided by the city
ordinances for violation of this chapter.
§ 1002.03 Building Permits.
   Subd. 1.   General. Except as provided in this subsection, no person, firm,
or corporation shall construct, erect, alter, wreck, or move any building or
structure or parts thereof within the corporate limits of the city without
first securing a building permit.
   Subd. 2.   Application. Application for a building permit shall be made to
the Building Official on forms to be furnished by the city. Applications shall
contain such other information as may be deemed necessary for the proper
enforcement of this or any other ordinance. Additional requirements for lots
within the Shoreland District are in subsection
1004.03.
   Subd. 3.   Plans and Specifications. With each application for a building
permit, and when otherwise required by the Building Official for enforcement of
this chapter, plans and specifications shall be submitted. A certificate of
survey of the lot upon which the proposed building or construction is to be
done shall be required for construction of a new principal structure.
         1.   As part of a building permit application for a single-family
home, a site survey with information as identified on the city’s survey handout
must be submitted and certified by the developer that it is consistent with the
approved final plat grading and drainage plan.
         2.   The developer or contractor must submit as built information that
work was performed consistent with the approved final plans of the subdivision.
   Subd. 4.   Fees. The fee for a building permit shall be as set in the fee
schedule adopted from time to time by City Council ordinance.
   Subd. 5.   Issuance. The Building Official shall issue the building permit
only after determining that the building plans, together with the application,
comply with the terms of this chapter.
         1.   a.   A permit is issued with the understanding that the
elevations of the proposed lot and the established or proposed street grade
shall not conflict in such manner as to cause damage by altering the drainage
or flow or surface waters to the street or nearby streets or to the adjacent or
nearby premises.
            b.   The proposed unit type and elevations shall be consistent with
the approved grading and drainage plans for the site. In the event that part of
the proposed structure falls outside of the building pad (as shown on the
approved grading plan), the applicant shall provide written documentation,
signed by a registered engineer, certifying that there will be no impact upon
the drainage patterns caused by the construction outside of the building pad
which was approved as part of the grading plan.
         2.   The Building Official may deny a permit for the construction of a
building or structure upon ground which is too low for proper drainage. No
obstruction, diversions, ridging, or confining, temporary or permanent, of the
existing channel or any natural waterway through or over which any lake,
stream, or surface water naturally flows shall be made without approval of the
City Engineer and/or any agency or official responsible for the review of such
applications.
§ 1002.04 Zoning Certificate.
The owner of any non-conforming use may make application to the Zoning
Administrator for a zoning certificate establishing that the non-conforming use
lawfully existed prior to the adoption of the provision which made the use non-
conforming. Said zoning certificate shall be obtained within one year of the
zoning ordinance amendment publication date and shall include the site address,
legal description, property identification number (PIN), ordinance amendment
number, and publication date. Additional information such as a site plan,
certificate of survey, photographs, and/or building plans shall be provided, if
required by the Zoning Administrator, to establish the physical site
improvements and/or use as of the date of the zoning certificate.
§ 1002.05 Administrative Permits.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to establish
regulations and procedures for the processing and consideration of activities
allowed by administrative permit, and of matters requiring the approval of the
Zoning Administrator or designee with the goal of protecting the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   Subd. 2.   Procedure. The applications which may be approved by
administrative permit include: zoning permits; building permits; temporary use
permits; site plans; zoning certificates; provided they comply with all
sections of this chapter. The procedure for filing administrative permits is
outlined below.
         1.   Application for an administrative permit shall be filed by the
property owner or designated agent with the Zoning Administrator or designee on
forms to be provided by the city.
         2.   The application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable filing
fee and escrow, as set forth by City Council for administrative permit
applications. Applications for amending permits shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable fee as set forth by City Council for administrative permits.
         3.   The Zoning Administrator or designee shall review the application
and related materials and shall determine whether the proposal is in compliance
with all applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances, and applicable
performance standards set forth in this subsection. The Zoning Administrator or
designee shall notify the applicant, in writing, of an incomplete application
within 15 business days of the date of submittal. The request shall be
considered as being officially submitted when all of the information
requirements are deemed to be complete by the Zoning Administrator and the
applicable fees and escrows have been paid. The formal review will not commence
until such a time as the application is complete.
         4.   The Zoning Administrator or designee shall consider possible
adverse effects of the proposed events or activity. Judgment shall be based
upon (but not limited to) the following factors:
            a.   Compliance with and effect upon the Comprehensive Plan and
public facilities plans;
            b.   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the use,
event, or activity will promote and enhance the general public welfare and will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, or
comfort;
            c.   The use, event, or activity will not be injurious to the use
and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes
already permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within
the neighborhood;
            d.   The establishment of the use, event, or activity will not
impede the normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding
property for uses permitted in the district;
            e.   Adequate public facilities and services are available or can
be reasonably provided to accommodate the use, event, or activity which is
proposed;
            f.   The use, event, or activity shall, in all other respects,
conform to the applicable regulations in which it is located; and
            g.   The use, event, or activity and site conform to the
performance standards outlined in Section 1006 and all other applicable
provision of this chapter.
         5.   The Zoning Administrator or designee shall make a determination
on approval or denial of the administrative permit within 60 days from the date
of submittal of a complete application.
         6.   A written permit shall be issued to the applicant when a
determination of compliance has been made. Specific conditions to assure
compliance with applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances, and the
standards of this chapter shall be attached to the permit.
         7.   Determination of non-compliance with applicable codes,
ordinances, and the standards in this item 2.7 shall be communicated to the
applicant in writing and the application for the permit shall be considered
denied.
         8.   Unresolved disputes as to administrative application of the
requirements of this paragraph shall be subject to appeal as defined by
subsection 1002.13 of this chapter.
   Subd. 3.   Information Requirement. The information required for all
administrative permit applications shall include all information as identified
on the city’s administrative permit handout.
   Subd. 4.   Performance Standards. All structures, uses, events, or
activities allowed by administrative permit shall conform to the applicable
standards outlined in the zoning district in which such structure, use, event
or activity is proposed, as well as the applicable standards in Section 1006 of
this chapter.
   Subd. 5.   Administration and Enforcement.
         1.   The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of applications and
administrative permits.
         2.   A copy of all administrative permits issued shall be forwarded to
appropriate staff as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         3.   Enforcement of the provisions of this item 3 shall be in
accordance with subsection 1002.02 of this chapter. Violation of an issued
permit or of the provisions of this subsection also shall be grounds for denial
of future permit applications.
   Subd. 6.   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right, upon issuing any
administrative permit, to inspect the premises to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or any conditions additionally imposed.
   Subd. 7.   Performance Agreement. Upon approval of an administrative permit
the city may require the applicant to enter into a performance agreement prior
to issuing of building permits or initiation of work on the proposed
improvement or development. Said agreement shall guarantee conformance and
compliance with the conditions of the administrative permit and the codes of
the city. The performance agreement shall be prepared and approved by the City
Attorney and shall provide for all of the items specified by Section 
1006.
§ 1002.06 Amendments (Text and Map).
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to establish
regulations and procedures for the processing and consideration of amendments
to the text and maps of the Comprehensive Plan and zoning ordinance. The City
Council may adopt amendments to the Comprehensive Plan and zoning ordinance
(map and text) in relation both to land uses within a particular area of the
community or district or to the location of the land use/zoning district line.
Such amendments shall not be issued indiscriminately, but shall only be used as
a means to reflect changes in the goals and policies of the city as reflected
in the Comprehensive Plan or changes in conditions in the city.
   Subd. 2.   Procedure. Proceedings for amending the Comprehensive Plan or
zoning ordinance shall be initiated by petition of an owner or owners of
property which is proposed for a change in land use and/or zoning designation
or for which district regulation changes are proposed, by recommendation of the
Planning Commission or by action of the City Council. The procedure for
amending the Comprehensive Plan and/or zoning ordinance (map and text) is
outlined as follows.
         1.   Prior to filing an application for amendment, the prospective
applicant(s) shall schedule a preliminary meeting with the Zoning Administrator
or designee to discuss items including, but not limited to, the nature of the
proposed use, consistency of the proposal with applicable city policies and
standards, and information required for a formal application.
         2.   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a non-
refundable filing fee and escrow as established by City Council.
         3.   The City Council shall approve, deny, or conditionally approve
the amendment within 60 days of receipt of the complete application, unless an
extension has been provided pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from
time to time, or a late date agreed to in writing by the applicant.
         4.   Following receipt of a complete application, the Zoning
Administrator or designee shall set the date for a public hearing and publish
the date, time, meeting location, subject site location, and brief description
of the proposal in the official newspaper at least ten days prior to the public
hearing. Written notices shall be mailed at least ten days prior to the public
hearing to all owners of land within 500 feet of the boundary of the property
to which the amendment relates, if notification is required by state statute.
            a.   A copy of the public hearing notice for applications under
local shoreland management controls shall be sent to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources or the Commissioner’s designated representative and
postmarked within ten days of the hearing.
            b.   A copy of the public hearing notice for applications under
floodplain controls shall be sent to the Commissioner of Natural Resources or
the Commissioner’s designated representative and postmarked within ten days of
the hearing. All amendments to subsection 1004.02, including amendments to the
official zoning map, must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of
Natural Resources prior to adoption. Changes in the official zoning map must
meet the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) technical conditions and
criteria and must receive prior FEMA approval before adoption.
         5.   Failure of a property owner to receive said notice(s) shall not
invalidate any such proceedings as set forth in this section.
         6.   The Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing to consider
the application and the possible adverse effects of the proposed amendment. The
judgment of the Planning Commission with regard to the application shall be
based upon, but not limited to, the following factors:
            a.   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the
specific policies and provisions of and has been found to be consistent with
the objectives of the Comprehensive Plan, including public facilities and
capital improvement plans;
            b.   The proposed action meets the purpose and intent of this
chapter or, in the case of a map amendment, it meets the purpose and intent of
the individual district;
            c.   There is adequate infrastructure available to serve the
proposed actions; and
            d.   There is an adequate buffer or transition provided between
potentially incompatible uses or districts.
         7.   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority
to request the applicant to provide additional information concerning
operational factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the
expense of the applicant. Said information to be declared necessary to
establish performance conditions in relation to all pertinent sections of this
chapter. Failure on the part of the applicant to supply all necessary
supportive information may be grounds for denial of the request.
         8.   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and city staff, the City Council shall hold a public meeting to act
on the application. The City Council may, before taking final action and
subject to the limitations provided under M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended
from time to time, refer the matter back to the Planning Commission for further
consideration based upon new information, or if the City Council finds that
specific inconsistencies exist in the review process. The City Council shall
provide the Planning Commission with a written statement detailing the reasons
for referral.
         9.   Approval of a proposed amendment shall require a majority vote of
all members of the City Council. Amendments which change all or part of the
existing classification of a zoning district from residential to either
commercial or industrial shall require a super majority vote of all members of
the City Council. A copy of approved amendments under local shoreland
management controls shall be sent to the Commissioner of Natural Resources or
the Commissioner’s designated representative and postmarked within ten days of
final action.
         10.   The amendment shall not become effective until such time as the
City Council approves a resolution (in the case of a Comprehensive Plan
amendment) or an ordinance (in the case of a zoning ordinance amendment), and
the ordinance is published in the official newspaper.
         11.   Denial of applications for amendment shall be accompanied by
written findings of fact of the City Council including supporting data setting
forth the reasons for the denial in terms of the ways in which the proposed use
fails to meet the standards and intent of the Comprehensive Plan and/or this
chapter and is otherwise injurious to the public health, safety, and welfare.
         12.   No application which has been denied wholly or in part shall be
resubmitted for at least one year from the date of its denial, unless
substantial changes have been made which warrant reconsideration, as determined
by the Zoning Administrator.
   Subd. 3.   Information Requirement. All information as required by the
city’s amendment handout.
§ 1002.07 Environmental Review.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to determine whether
certain projects have or may have the potential for significant environmental
effects and should undergo special procedures of the State Environmental Review
Program.
   Subd. 2.   Procedures.
         1.   When an environmental assessment worksheet (EAW), alternative
urban areawide review (AUAR), or environmental impact statement (EIS) is
required or otherwise ordered or submitted, the applicable review procedures
shall be as set forth in the State Environmental Quality Board regulations for
the Environmental Review Program, as authorized by Minnesota Statutes and
specified in Minn. Rules Chapter 4410, as amended from time to time.
         2.   An EAW, AUAR, or EIS application, together with the completed
data portions of the environmental document, shall be accompanied by a fee and
cash escrow as set forth in ordinance. Costs of city time and materials
expended in reviewing and processing the application shall be charged against
the cash escrow account and credited to the city. If, at any time, the balance
in the cash escrow account is depleted to less than 10% of the originally
required cash escrow amount, the project proposer shall deposit additional
funds in the cash escrow account as determined by the Zoning Administrator. Any
balance remaining in the cash escrow account upon completion of the process
shall be returned to the project proposer after all claims and charges thereto
have been deducted.
         3.   Upon completion of the EAW, AUAR, or EIS for distribution, the
Zoning Administrator or designee shall provide mailed notice of the
availability of the EAW, AUAR, or EIS and date of the meeting at which the
Planning Commission will consider the matter to all property owners within 500
feet of the boundaries of the property which is the subject of the EAW, AUAR,
or EIS. Said notice shall be mailed at minimum ten days before the date of the
Planning Commission meeting during which the EAW, AUAR, or EIS will be
considered.
         4.   Review by Planning Commission. During the 30-day comment period
that follows publication of the notice of availability of the EAW, AUAR, or EIS
in the EQB monitor, the Planning Commission shall review the EAW, AUAR, or EIS.
The Commission shall make recommendations to the City Council regarding
potential environmental impacts that may warrant further investigation before
the project is commenced.
         5.   Decision by City Council. The City Council shall act on the EAW,
AUAR, or EIS document as required by M.S. Chapter 4410, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 1002.08 Conditional Use Permits (CUP).
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of a conditional use permit (CUP) is to
provide the city with a reasonable degree of discretion in determining the
suitability of certain designated uses upon the general welfare, public health,
and safety. In making this determination, whether or not the conditional use is
to be allowed, the city may consider the nature of the adjoining land or
buildings, the effect upon traffic into and from the premises, or on any
adjoining roads, and all other or further factors as the city shall deem a
prerequisite of consideration in determining the effect of the use on the
general welfare, public health, and safety.
   Subd. 2.   Procedure. The process for filing a conditional use permit is
outlined below.
         1.   Prior to filing an application for conditional use permit, the
prospective applicant(s) shall schedule a preliminary meeting with the Zoning
Administrator or designee to discuss items, including, but not limited to, the
nature of the proposed use, consistency of the proposal with applicable city
policies and standards, and information required for a formal application.
         2.   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a non-
refundable filing fee and escrow as established by City Council.
         3.   The City Council shall approve, deny, or conditionally approve
the conditional use permit within 60 days of receipt of the complete
application, unless an extension has been provided pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as
it may be amended from time to time, or a later date agreed to in writing by
the applicant.
         4.   Following receipt of a complete application, the Zoning
Administrator or designee shall set the date for a public hearing and publish
the date, time, meeting location, subject site location, and brief description
of the proposal in the official newspaper at least ten days prior to the public
hearing. Written notices shall be mailed at least ten days prior to the public
hearing to all owners of land within 500 feet of the boundary of the property
to which the conditional use permit relates.
            a.   A copy of the public hearing notice for applications under
local shoreland management controls shall be sent to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources or the Commissioner’s designated representative and
postmarked within ten days of the hearing.
            b.   A copy of the public hearing notice for applications under
floodplain management controls shall be sent to the Commissioner of Natural
Resources or the Commissioner’s designated representative and postmarked within
ten days of the hearing.
         5.   Failure of a property owner to receive said notice(s) shall not
invalidate any such proceedings as set forth in this section.
         6.   The Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing to consider
the application and the possible adverse effects of the proposed conditional
use permit. The judgment of the Planning Commission with regard to the
application shall be based upon (but not limited to) the following factors:
            a.   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the
specific policies and provisions of and has been found to be consistent with
the objectives of the Comprehensive Plan, including public facilities and
capital improvement plans;
            b.   The proposed action meets the purpose and intent of this
chapter and the intent of the underlying zoning district;
            c.   The proposed use can be accommodated with existing public
services and will not overburden the city’s service capacity;
            d.   There is an adequate buffer yard or transition provided
between potentially incompatible uses or districts;
            e.   The proposed use is or will be compatible with present and
future land uses of the area;
            f.   The proposed use conforms with all performance standards
contained within this chapter; and
            g.   Traffic generation by the proposed use is within capabilities
of streets serving the property.
         7.   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority
to request additional information be provided by the applicant concerning
operational factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the
expense of the applicant concerning operational factors, said information to be
declared necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all
pertinent sections of this chapter. Failure on the part of the applicant to
supply all necessary supportive information may be grounds for denial of the
request.
         8.   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and city staff, the City Council shall hold a public meeting to act
on the application. The City Council may, before taking final action and
subject to the limitations provided under M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended
from time to time, refer the matter back to the Planning Commission for further
consideration based upon new information, or if the City Council finds that
specific inconsistencies exist in the review process. The City Council shall
provide the Planning Commission with a written statement detailing the reasons
for referral.
         9.   Approval of a conditional use permit shall require passage by a
majority vote of the Council members present at the City Council meeting. Said
approval shall be in the form of a resolution setting forth the findings of
fact and conditions of approval associated with the conditional use permit.
            a.   A copy of approved final decisions granting conditional uses
under local shoreland management controls shall be sent to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources or the Commissioner’s designated representative and
postmarked within ten days of final action.
            b.   A copy of approved final decisions granting conditional uses
under local floodplain management controls shall be sent to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources or the Commissioner’s designated representative and
postmarked within ten days of final action.
         10.   Denial of applications for conditional use permits shall be
accompanied by written findings of fact of the City Council, including
supporting data setting forth the reasons for the denial in terms of the ways
in which the proposed use fails to meet the standards and intent of the
Comprehensive Plan and/or this chapter and is otherwise injurious to the public
health, safety, and welfare.
         11.   Whenever an application for a conditional use permit has been
considered and denied by the City Council, a similar application for the
conditional use permit affecting substantially the same property shall not be
considered again by the Planning Commission or City Council for at least one
year from the date of its denial.
   Subd. 3.   Information Requirements. All information as required by the
city’s conditional use permit handout.
   Subd. 4.   Performance Standards. As may be applicable, the evaluation of
any proposed conditional use permit request shall be subject to and include,
but not be limited to, the performance standards in Section 1006.
   Subd. 5   Permit Modifications. Holders of a conditional use permit may
propose modifications to the permit at any time. No changes in the approved
plans or scope of the conditional use shall, however, be undertaken without
prior approval of those changes by the city. Proposed permit modifications
shall be classified as major or minor, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator. Major permit modifications may include, but shall not be limited
to, hours of operation, number of employees, expansion of structures and/or
premises, operational modifications resulting in increased traffic, and the
like. Permit modifications shall be further subject to and processed as
follows.
         1.   Minor Permit Modifications, Additional Qualifications. In
addition to other considerations noted above, minor permit modifications shall
meet the following criteria:
            a.   Sites shall be in non-residential zoning districts, and shall
not abut any residential zoned property;
            b.   All sites must be in the urban service area as defined by the
Comprehensive Plan;
            c.   All sites must be legal parcels of record at the time of
application;
            d.   All permit modification proposals shall meet or exceed the
standards of all applicable codes, ordinances, and policies and shall be free
of variances from those standards;
            e.   Only applications for amendments to existing conditional uses
classified as conditional uses within the respective zoning districts of this
chapter are eligible for administrative approval; and
            f.   Administrative approval of minor permit modifications shall be
subject to the requirements of subsection 1002.05.
         2.   Major Permit Modifications, Qualifications. Any permit
modification not classified or qualifying as minor shall be classified as
major. Major permit modifications shall be processed according to the procedure
set forth for processing conditional use permits and shall be subject to all
requirements and standards of this subsection.
   Subd. 6.   Revocation. The Planning Commission may recommend, and the City
Council may direct, the revocation of any conditional use permit for cause upon
determination that the authorized conditional use is not in conformance with
the conditions of the permit or is in continued violation of this chapter, City
Codes, or other applicable regulations. The City Council or Planning Commission
shall initiate an application and the Zoning Administrator shall notify the
responsible person that they have an opportunity to show cause why the permit
should not be revoked. The application shall be processed and considered
pursuant to the procedure set forth for processing conditional use permits by
this subsection. The Zoning Administrator shall provide the applicant a copy of
the proceedings and findings of the Planning Commission and City Council.
   Subd. 7.   Expiration. Unless the City Council specifically approves a
different time when action is officially taken on the request, conditional use
permits which have been issued under the provisions of this subsection shall
expire without further action by the Planning Commission or the City Council,
unless the applicant commences the authorized use within one year of the date
the conditional use permit is issued; or, unless before the expiration of the
one-year period; the applicant shall apply for an extension thereof by
completing and submitting a request for extension, including the renewal fee as
established by City Council resolution. The request for extension shall state
facts showing a good faith attempt to complete or utilize the use permitted in
the conditional use permit. A request for an extension not exceeding one year
shall be subject to the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator. Should
a second extension of time or any extension of time longer than one year be
requested by the applicant, it shall be presented to the Planning Commission
for a recommendation and to the City Council for a decision.
   Subd. 8.   Filing CUP with the County. A certified copy of all conditional
use permits shall be filed with the County Recorder pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes.
   Subd. 9.   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any
conditional use permit to inspect the premises to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or any conditions additionally imposed.
   Subd. 10.   Site Improvement Performance Agreement. Upon approval of a
conditional use permit, the city may require the applicant to enter into a
performance agreement prior to issuing of building permits or initiation of
work on the proposed improvement or development. Said agreement shall guarantee
conformance and compliance with the conditions of the conditional use permit
and the codes of the city. The performance agreement shall be prepared and
approved by the City Attorney and shall provide for all of the items specified
by subsection 1006.07.
§ 1002.09 Interim Use Permits (IUP).
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of allowing interim uses is to allow a use
for a temporary period of time until a permanent location is obtained or while
the permanent location is under construction. To allow a use that is presently
judged acceptable by the City Council, but that with anticipated development or
redevelopment, will not be acceptable in the future or will be replaced in the
future by a permitted or conditional use allowed within the respective
district. To allow a use which is reflective of anticipated long-range change
to an area and which is in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan provided that
said use maintains harmony and compatibility with surrounding uses and is in
keeping with the architectural character and design standards of existing uses
and development.
   Subd. 2.   Procedure.
         1.   Existing Uses. Uses defined as interim uses which presently exist
as a legal use or a legal non-conforming use within a respective zoning
district shall be considered approved and shall be treated as allowed uses.
         2.   New Uses. Uses defined as interim uses which do not presently
exist within a respective zoning district shall be processed according to the
standards and procedures for a conditional use permit as established by
subsection 1002.08.
   Subd. 3.   Information Requirements. All information as required by the
city’s interim use permit handout.
   Subd. 4.   General Standards. An interim use shall comply with the
following:
         1.   Meet the standards of a conditional use permit set forth in
subsection 1002.08;
         2.   The use is allowed as an interim use in the respective zoning
district and conforms to zoning regulations;
         3.   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified
with certainty;
         4.   The use will not impose additional unreasonable costs on the
public if it is necessary for the public to take the property in the future;
and
         5.   The user agrees to any conditions that the City Council deems
appropriate for permission of the use.
   Subd. 5.   Termination. An interim use shall terminate on the happening of
any of the following events, whichever occurs first:
         1.   The date or event stated in the permit; and/or
         2.   Upon violation of conditions under which the permit was issued.
   Subd. 6.   Limitations on Renewal. An interim use permit that has expired or
has been terminated shall not be eligible for renewal if a change in the city’s
zoning regulations has rendered the use non-conforming.
   Subd. 7.   Expiration. Unless the City Council specifically approves a
different time when action is officially taken on the request, permits which
have been issued under the provisions of this subsection shall expire without
further action by the Planning Commission or the City Council, unless the
applicant commences the authorized use within one year of the date the interim
use permit is issued; or, unless before the expiration of the one-year period;
the applicant shall apply for an extension thereof by completing and submitting
a request for extension, including the renewal fee as established by City
Council resolution. The request for extension shall state facts showing a good
faith attempt to complete or utilize the use permitted in the interim use
permit. A request for an extension not exceeding one year shall be subject to
the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator or designee. Should a
second extension of time or any extension of time longer than one year be
requested by the applicant, it shall be presented to the Planning Commission
for a recommendation and to the City Council for a decision.
   Subd. 8.   Site Improvement Performance Agreement. Upon approval of an
interim use permit, the city may require the applicant to enter into a
performance agreement prior to issuing of building permits or initiation of
work on the proposed improvement or development. Said agreement shall guarantee
conformance and compliance with the conditions of the interim use permit and
the codes of the city. The performance agreement shall be prepared and approved
by the City Attorney and shall provide for all of the items specified by
subsection 1006.07.
§ 1002.10 Temporary Uses.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. Certain uses that are generally not suitable within a
particular zoning district are potentially suitable on a temporary basis. This
may be due to the lack of development on existing property due to a short-term
need (such as highway construction), or to the limited degree of adverse
effects upon adjacent land use. Accordingly, it is the intention of this
subsection to recognize certain temporary uses as being potentially allowable
and provide regulations for their control, if permitted.
   Subd. 2.   Procedure. Where not specifically listed in the underlying zoning
district, all temporary uses identified in Subd. 3 below shall be permitted in
any zoning district provided they apply for and receive approval of an
administrative permit, building permit, and/or appropriate city license.
   Subd. 3.   Permitted Temporary Uses. The following temporary uses may be
permitted subject to administrative permit requirements of subsection 1002.05,
the provisions of this subsection and licensing requirements of the city, if
any:
         1.   Temporary Outdoor Seasonal Sales. Temporary outdoor seasonal
sales as defined in subsection 1002.05 may be permitted in any business zoning
district for a period not to exceed 60 days;
         2.   Civic Activities. Community activities by non-profit civic
groups, upon approval by the City Council of the proposed program as being in
harmony with area uses, and upon issuance of appropriate permits and licenses;
         3.   Food vendors (ice cream trucks, popcorn stands, hot dog stands,
pop stands, and the like);
         4.   Road Materials. Black top or crushing plant for highway
materials;
         5.   Excavating for Sale. Excavating materials sold from a
construction project such as excess sand, gravel, or black dirt;
         6.   Stockpiling. Stockpiling of material for use in roadway
construction;
         7.   Carnival. Carnivals or circuses when operated as a separate
commercial business for a period not to exceed 15 days; and
         8.   Temporary Outdoor On-Sale Events. Temporary outdoor on-sale
events may be permitted in any business zoning district. Eligible applicants
are limited to businesses already holding an on-sale license from the city to
sell beer, wine, or intoxicating liquor. This permit is subject to the
following conditions and provisions:
            a.   Such applicants must abide by all state and local liquor
regulations including compact and contiguous requirements for the outdoor area.
See subsection 400.12, Regulation of Outdoor Areas in On- Sale Liquor, Wine,
and Beer Establishments;
            b.   Each event must be individually permitted;
            c.   This permit does not impact any outdoor dining administrative
permit held under subsection 1006.07, Subd. 1;
            d.   The applicant is required to submit a site plan and other
pertinent information demonstrating the location and type of all tables, refuse
receptacles, and wait stations;
            e.   Any temporary outdoor on-sale event must be held on property
owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by the applicant;
            f.   The applicant must demonstrate the following, all of which are
subject to the review and approval by the Zoning Administrator.
               i.   The event area shall be sufficiently screened from adjacent
residential areas.
               ii.   All lighting is hooded or otherwise sufficiently directed
away from adjacent residential uses.
               iii.   Pedestrian and traffic circulation is minimally disrupted
by providing physical barriers to guide pedestrians and vehicles around the
event.
               iv.   If the event is held in a space that is typically used as
a parking lot or other thoroughfare, the applicant must show that the area is
not accessible to vehicles during the event.
            g.   The Zoning Administrator may further restrict the days, hours,
nature, volume, and other aspects of entertainment through this temporary
outdoor on-sale event to preserve the general welfare.
   Subd. 4.   Permit and Performance Criteria. The following permit
requirements and performance criteria shall apply generally to temporary uses
in addition to the special provisions outlined herein:
         1.   A permit application form and fee, as set by City Council, shall
be submitted to the Zoning Administrator, who is hereby authorized to review
and approve permits for temporary uses, provided the following criteria are
satisfied;
         2.   No portion of the temporary use shall take place within any
public right-of-way or landscaped green strip;
         3.   Parking and display areas associated with the use shall not
distract or interfere with existing business operations or traffic circulation
patterns;
         4.   Display areas and parking spaces shall use those parking lot
spaces that are in excess of the minimum required parking for the primary use
of that property;
         5.   The site shall be kept in a neat and orderly manner, and display
of items shall be as compact as possible so as to not interfere with existing
business, parking, or driveway operations;
         6.   Display areas, trailers, temporary stands, and the like shall be
located on an asphalt or concrete surface as approved in the administrative
permit;
         7.   Temporary uses (with a valid administrative permit) may have one
on-site temporary sign not to exceed 24 square feet in area and not more than
six feet in height;
         8.   The owner/operator shall have the written permission of the
current property owner to locate the temporary use on a specific site;
         9.   A daily clean-up program shall be presented as part of the
administrative permit application;
         10.   Those temporary uses that are determined by the City
Administrator not to be consistent with the intent of the City Code, and
Comprehensive Plan may be appealed pursuant to the process outlined in
subsection 1002.13;
         11.   Adjacent vacant land is not yet impacted by development
pressures or will not be affected by the proposed use;
         12.   Adjacent developed land will not be adversely affected by the
proposed use because of traffic, noise, dust, smoke, unsightliness, or other
nuisance characteristic;
         13.   The administrative permit shall terminate six months from its
date of issuance, or within 30 days after a certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the Building Official, whichever occurs first. The permit may be
extended for an additional 90 days at the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator; and
         14.   There is adequate assurance, guaranteed by performance bond in a
form accepted by the City Attorney, if deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator, that the property will be left in suitable condition after the
temporary use is terminated.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 6-14-2023)
§ 1002.11 Site Plans.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to establish a formal
site plan review procedure and provide regulations pertaining to the
enforcement of site design standards consistent with the requirements of this
chapter.
   Subd. 2.   Exceptions. Except in those cases specifically cited within this
chapter, the following shall be excepted from the foregoing requirements of
this subsection:
         1.   Agricultural uses;
         2.   Single-family detached dwellings; and
         3.   Two-family attached dwellings if in a group of four or less
dwelling units.
   Subd. 3.   Concept Plan.
         1.   Prior to the formulation of a site plan, applicants may present a
concept plan to the Zoning Administrator prior to filing of a formal
application. The plan shall be conceptual but shall be drawn to scale with
topography of a contour interval not greater than one foot and may include the
following: All information as shown on the city’s concept plan handout.
         2.   The Zoning Administrator or designee shall review the plans for
compliance with city standards and shall have the authority to refer the
concept plan to the Planning Commission and/or City Council for discussion,
review, and informal comment. Any opinions or comments provided to the
applicant by the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, and/or City Council
shall be considered advisory only and shall not constitute a binding decision
on the request.
   Subd. 4.   Procedure. The process for filing a site plan is outlined below.
         1.   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a non-
refundable filing fee and escrow as established by City Council.
         2.   The Zoning Administrator or City Council shall approve, deny, or
conditionally approve the site plan within 60 days of receipt of the complete
application, unless an extension has been provided pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as
it may be amended from time to time, or a later date agreed to in writing by
the applicant.
            a.   Qualification. Site plans classified as minor projects may be
administratively approved by the Zoning Administrator in lieu of City Council
review and approval only for sites which meet the following criteria.
               i.   Sites shall be in non-residential zoning districts,
including those within planned unit developments, and shall not be within 200
feet of any residentially used or zoned property.
               ii.   All sites must be legal parcels of record at the time of
application.
               iii.   All applications for site plan approval must be complete
and in full accordance with the requirements of this chapter. All applicable
fees shall be paid.
               iv.   All development proposals and site plan layouts must meet
or exceed the standards of all applicable codes, ordinances, and policies and
must be free of any major variances from those standards.
               v.   No other subdivision or zoning applications that require
Council approval are required.
            b.   Major Projects. Any project not classified or qualifying as a
minor project shall be classified as a major project.
         3.   The applicant shall supply proof of title and the legal
description of the property for which the site plan approval is requested,
consisting of an abstract of title and as applicable supply documented
authorization from the owner(s) of the property in question to proceed with the
requested site plan application.
         4.   The Zoning Administrator or designee shall instruct the
appropriate staff persons to prepare technical reports where appropriate, and
provide general assistance in conducting an evaluation of the request.
         5.   City staff shall have the authority to request additional
information is provided by the applicant concerning operational factors or to
retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of the applicant
concerning operational factors, said information to be declared necessary to
establish performance conditions in relation to all pertinent sections of this
chapter. Failure on the part of the applicant to supply all necessary
supportive information may be grounds for denial of the request.
         6.   The applicant or a representative thereof shall meet with the
Zoning Administrator and/or city staff in order to present information and
answer questions concerning the proposed request.
   Subd. 5.   Information Requirements. The information required for all site
plan applications generally consists of the following items, and shall be
submitted unless waived by the Zoning Administrator. All information as
required on the city’s site plan handout.
   Subd. 6.   Site Amendment. An amended site plan involving major changes
shall be applied for and administered in a manner similar to that required for
a new site plan.
   Subd. 7.   Lapse of Approval. Unless otherwise specified by the Zoning
Administrator, the site plan approval shall become null and void one year after
the date of approval, unless the applicant or property owner has substantially
started the construction of any building, structure, addition, or alteration or
use requested as part of the approved plan. The property owner or applicant
shall have the right to submit an application for time extension in accordance
with this section.
         1.   In making the determination on whether an applicant has made a
good faith attempt to utilize the site plan approval, the Zoning Administrator
shall consider such factors as the type, design, and size of the proposed
construction, any applicable restrictions on financing, or special and/or
unique circumstances beyond the control of the applicant which have caused the
delay.
         2.   The request for an extension of site plan approval shall be
determined by the Zoning Administrator within 15 days from the receipt of a
complete request.
   Subd. 8.   Site Improvement Performance Agreement. Upon approval of a site
plan, the city may require the applicant to enter into a performance agreement
prior to issuing of building permits or initiation of work on the proposed
improvement or development. Said agreement shall guarantee conformance and
compliance with the conditions of the site plan approval and the codes of the
city. The performance agreement shall be prepared and approved by the City
Attorney and shall provide for all of the items specified by subsection
1006.07.
   Subd. 9.   Site Plan Review Process. The review and approval of site
improvements pursuant to the requirements of city adopted Building and Fire
Codes shall be in addition to the site plan review process established under
this chapter. The site plan approval process does not imply compliance with the
requirements of these Building and Fire Codes.
   Subd. 10.   Formal Agreement. All site and construction plans officially
submitted to the city shall be treated as a formal agreement between the
applicant and the city. Once approved, no changes, modifications, or
alterations shall be made to any plan detail, standard, or specifications
without prior submittal of a plan modification request to the Zoning
Administrator for review and approval.
§ 1002.12 Variance.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to provide relief from
the strict application of the terms of this chapter, in instances where their
strict enforcement would cause practical difficulties because of circumstances
unique to the individual property under consideration, and to grant such
variances only when it is demonstrated to be in keeping with the spirit and
intent of this chapter.
   Subd. 2.   Procedure. The process for filing a variance application is
outlined below.
         1.   Prior to filing an application for variance, the prospective
applicant(s) shall schedule a preliminary meeting with the Zoning Administrator
or designee to discuss items including, but not limited to, the nature of the
proposed use, consistency of the proposal with applicable city policies and
standards, and information required for a formal application.
         2.   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a non-
refundable filing fee and escrow as established by City Council.
         3.   The City Council shall approve, deny, or conditionally approve
the variance within 60 days of receipt of the complete application, unless an
extension has been provided pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as amended from time to
time, or a later date agreed to in writing by the applicant.
         4.   Following receipt of a complete application, the Zoning
Administrator or designee shall set the date for a public hearing and publish
the date, time, meeting location, subject site location, and brief description
of the proposal in the official newspaper at least ten days prior to the public
hearing. Written notices shall be mailed at least ten days prior to the public
hearing to all owners of land within 500 feet of the boundary of the property
to which the variance application. A copy of the public hearing notice for
applications under local shoreland management controls shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources or the Commissioner’s designated
representative and postmarked within ten days of the hearing.
         5.   Failure of a property owner to receive said notice(s) shall not
invalidate any such proceedings as set forth in this subsection.
         6.   The Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing to consider
the application and the possible adverse effects of the proposed variance. An
application for variance shall not be approved unless a finding is made that
failure to grant the variance will result in practical difficulties for the
applicant in complying with the requirements of this chapter. Practical
difficulties means that the applicant proposes to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by the chapter. In addition, as may be
applicable, all of the following criteria must be met:
            a.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, lot shape,
narrowness, shallowness, slope, or topographical conditions of the specific
parcel of land involved, practical difficulties to the owner would result, as
distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict letter of the
regulations were to be carried out;
            b.   The conditions upon which a petition for a variance is based
are unique to the parcel of land for which the variance is sought and are not
applicable, generally, to other property within the same zoning classification;
            c.   The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a
desire to increase the value or income potential of the parcel of land;
            d.   The alleged practical difficulties are caused by this chapter
and have not been created by any persons having an interest in the parcel of
land and are not self-created difficulties;
            e.   The granting of the variance will not impair an adequate
supply of light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the
congestion of the public streets, or increase the danger of fire, endanger the
public safety, or substantially diminish or impair property values within the
neighborhood;
            f.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other land or improvements in the neighborhood
in which the parcel of land is located;
            g.   The variance is the minimum action required to eliminate the
practical difficulties;
            h.   The variance does not involve a use which is not allowed
within the respective zoning district;
            i.   The variance is in harmony with the general purposes and
intent of this chapter;
            j.   The variance is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan;
            k.   The property owner proposes to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by this chapter; and
            l.   The variance will not alter the essential character of the
locality.
         7.   Variances may only be granted in accordance with M.S. Chapter
462, as it may be amended from time to time, as applicable. A variance may not
circumvent the general purposes and intent of subsection 1004.03. No variance
may be granted that would allow any use that is not allowed in the underlying
zoning district in which the subject property is located. Conditions may be
imposed in the granting of a variance. A condition must be directly related to
and must bear a rough proportionality to the impact created by the variance. In
considering a variance request, the Board of Adjustment must also consider
whether the property owner has reasonable use of the land without the variance,
whether the property is used seasonally or year round, whether the variance is
being requested solely on the basis of economic considerations, and the
characteristics of development on adjacent properties.
         8.   For existing developments, the application for variance shall
clearly demonstrate whether a conforming sewage treatment system is present for
the intended use of the property. The variance, if issued, must require re-
construction of a non-conforming sewage treatment system.
         9.   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority
to request additional information be provided by the applicant concerning
operational factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the
expense of the applicant concerning operational factors, said information to be
declared necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all
pertinent sections of this chapter. Failure on the part of the applicant to
supply all necessary supportive information may be grounds for denial of the
request.
         10.   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and city staff, the City Council shall hold a public meeting to act
on the application. The City Council may, before taking final action and
subject to the limitations provided under M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended
from time to time, refer the matter back to the Planning Commission for further
consideration based upon new information, or if the City Council finds that
specific inconsistencies exist in the review process. The City Council shall
provide the Planning Commission with a written statement detailing the reasons
for referral.
         11.   Approval of a variance application shall require passage by a
majority vote of the Council members present at the City Council meeting. Said
approval shall be in the form of a resolution setting forth the findings of
fact and conditions of approval associated with the variance.
            a.   A copy of all final decisions granting a variance under local
shoreland management controls shall be sent to the Commissioner or the
Commissioner’s designated representative and postmarked within ten days of
final action.
            b.   When a variance is approved after the Department of Natural
Resources has formally recommended denial in the hearing record, the
notification of the approved variance required in item 11.a above shall also
include the Board of Adjustment’s summary of the public record/testimony and
the finding of facts and conclusions which supported the issuance of the
variance.
            c.   In passing a variance to the floodplain management section of
this chapter, the City Council shall make its decision in writing setting forth
the findings of fact and the reasons for its decisions. In granting the
variance, the City Council may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards
such as those specified in subsection 1002.08. Violations of such conditions
and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the variance is
granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter punishable under
subsection 1004.02. A copy of all decisions granting variances shall be
forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of
such action.
            d.   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant for a
variance that:
               i.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below
the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance; and
               ii.   Such construction below the 100-year or regional flood
level increases risks to life and property. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions. A community shall maintain a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and
report such variances issued in its annual or biennial report submitted to the
Administrator of the National Flood Insurance Program.
         12.   Denial of applications for variance shall be accompanied by
written findings of fact of the City Council including supporting data setting
forth the reasons for the denial in terms of the ways in which the application
fails to meet the applicable difficulties or hardship standard, intent of the
Comprehensive Plan and/or this chapter or would be otherwise injurious to the
public health, safety, and welfare.
         13.   Whenever an application for a variance has been considered and
denied by the City Council, a similar application for variance affecting
substantially the same property shall not be considered again by the Planning
Commission or City Council for at least one year from the date of its denial.
   Subd. 3.   Information Required. Information required for all variance
applications shall include all information as required by the city’s variance
handout.
   Subd. 4.   Revocation. The Planning Commission may recommend, and the City
Council may direct, the revocation of any variance for cause upon determination
that the authorized variance is not in conformance with the conditions of the
approval or is in violation of this chapter, City Codes, or other applicable
regulations. The City Council or Planning Commission shall initiate an
application, and the Zoning Administrator shall notify the responsible person
that they have an opportunity to show cause why the permit should not be
revoked. The application shall be processed and considered pursuant to the
procedure set forth for processing variances by this subsection. The Zoning
Administrator shall provide the applicant a copy of the proceedings and
findings of the Planning Commission and City Council.
   Subd. 5.   Expiration. Unless the City Council specifically approves a
different time when action is officially taken on the request, variances which
have been issued under the provisions of this subsection shall expire without
further action by the Planning Commission or the City Council, unless the
applicant commences the authorized use within one year of the date the variance
is approved; or, unless before the expiration of the one year period; the
applicant shall apply for an extension thereof by completing and submitting a
request for extension, including the renewal fee as established by City Council
resolution. The request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith
attempt to complete or utilize the use permitted in the variance application. A
request for an extension not exceeding one year shall be subject to the review
and approval of the Zoning Administrator. Should a second extension of time or
any extension of time longer than one year be requested by the applicant, it
shall be presented to the Planning Commission for a recommendation and to the
City Council for a decision.
   Subd. 6.   Filing Variance with the County. A certified copy of all variance
resolutions shall be filed with the County Recorder pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes. A building permit for the subject construction shall not be issued
until proof of recording has been provided to the City Administrator.
   Subd. 7.   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any
variance approval to inspect the premises to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or any conditions additionally imposed.
   Subd. 8.   Site Improvement Performance Agreement. Upon approval of a
variance application, the city may require the applicant to enter into a
performance agreement prior to issuing of building permits or initiation of
work on the proposed improvement or development. Said agreement shall guarantee
conformance and compliance with the conditions of the variance approval and the
codes of the city. The performance agreement shall be prepared and approved by
the City Attorney and shall provide for all of the items specified by
subsection 1006.07.
§ 1002.13 Appeals.
   Subd. 1.   Establishment. The City Council shall serve as the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals.
         1.   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the transaction of
its business and keep a public record of its transactions, findings, and
determinations.
         2.   The meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call
of the chairperson and at such other times as the Board, in its rules of
procedure, may specify.
         3.   The Board of Adjustment shall have power to grant a variance to
any of the provisions of this chapter to the extent of the following and no
further:
            a.   To vary or modify the strict application of any of the
regulations or provision contained in this chapter in cases in which there are
practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of such strict
applications; no variance or modification of the use permitted within a
district shall be allowed, except as otherwise provided in this chapter;
            b.   To interpret zoning district boundaries on official zoning
maps; and
            c.   To permit the extension of a zoning district where the
boundary line thereof divides a lot in one ownership at the time of the passage
of this chapter, but the extension of any district shall not exceed 100 feet.
         4.   The Board of Adjustment shall act upon all questions as they may
arise in the administration of any ordinance or official control, and it shall
hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirements, decision, or
determination made by an administrative official charged with enforcing any
ordinance adopted pursuant to the provisions contained in this chapter.
   Subd. 2.   Applicability. An appeal shall only be applicable to an
interpretation of legislative intent of provisions of this chapter. Opinions
and evaluations as they pertain to the impact or result of a request are not
subject to the appeal procedure.
   Subd. 3.   Filing. An appeal from the action of an administrative officer of
the city shall be filed by the property owner or their agent with the Zoning
Administrator within ten days after the making of the order, requirement, or
interpretation being appealed.
   Subd. 4.   Stay of Proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings and the
furtherance of the action being appealed unless it is certified to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals, after the notice of appeal is filed, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life and
property. In such case, the proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order, which may be granted by a court of record on application,
and upon subsequent notice to the city.
   Subd. 5.   Procedure. The procedure for making an appeal shall be as
follows.
         1.   The property owner or their agent shall file with the Zoning
Administrator a notice of appeal stating the specific grounds upon which the
appeal is made. Said application shall be accompanied by a fee as established
by City Council resolution. In cases where the application is judged to be
incomplete, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant, in writing,
within 15 business days of the date of submittal.
         2.   The Zoning Administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff
persons to prepare technical reports when appropriate and shall provide general
assistance in preparing a recommendation on the action to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals.
         3.   Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time,
the Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall make its decision by resolution
within 60 days from the date on which a completed application is filed, unless
an extension has been provided pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended
from time to time.
         4.   The Zoning Administrator shall serve a copy of the final order of
the Board upon the applicant by mail.
   Subd. 6.   Appeals from the Board of Adjustments and Appeals. Any person or
persons, any private or public board, or taxpayer of the city aggrieved by any
decision of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall have the right to seek
review of the decision with a court of record in the manner provided by the
laws of the state and particularly M.S. Chapter 462, as such statutes may be
from time to time amended, supplemented, or replaced.
§ 1002.14 Penalties.
   Subd. 1.   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law.
   Subd. 2.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. Such
actions may include, but are not limited to:
         1.   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning
Administrator and City Council may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it, including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures, or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to the
extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
         2.   When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought to
the attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources and Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office along with
the community’s plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
         3.   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the city. If the construction or development is already
completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either:
            a.   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
            b.   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
         4.   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall
be prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also, upon the lapse
of the specified response period, notify the landowner to restore the land to
the condition which existed prior to the violation of this chapter.
SECTION 1003: DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 1003.01 Establishment of Districts.
In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the location of trade and industry
and the location of buildings designated for specific uses, to protect
residential uses, to regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings
hereafter erected or altered, to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of
lot areas, and to regulate and determine the areas of yards, recreation and
open space within and surrounding such buildings, the city is hereby divided
into zoning districts. The use, height, and area regulations shall be uniform
in each district, and said districts shall be known as:
         1.   AG: Agricultural District;
         2.   R-1: Single-Family Residential District;
         3.   R-2: Medium Density Residential District;
         4.   R-3: High Density Residential District;
         5.   R-4: Single-Family Manufactured Home Park District;
         6.   R-5: Residential Redevelopment District;
         7.   B-1: Community Business District;
         8.   B-2: General Business District;
         9.   CI: Mixed Use Commercial Industrial District;
         10.   I-1: Industrial Park District;
         11.   I-2: General Industrial District;
         12.   I-3: Innovation Industrial District;
         13.   DD: Downtown Design Overlay District;
         14.   PUD: Planned Unit Development District;
         15.   SD: Shoreland Management Overlay District;
         16.   W: Wetland Overlay District;
         17.   FW: Floodway District; and
         18.   FF: Flood Fringe District.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 4-14-2004)
§ 1003.02 Zoning District Boundaries.
Zoning district boundary lines established by this subsection follow lot lines,
the centerlines of railroad right-of-way lines, street rights-of-way, water
courses, or the corporate limit lines, all as they exist upon the effective
date of this chapter.
   Subd. 1.   Appeals. Appeals concerning the exact location of a zoning
district boundary line shall be heard by the City Council serving as the Board
of Adjustment and Appeals pursuant to subsection
1002.13.
   Subd. 2.   Vacations. Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is
vacated by official action of the city as provided in subsection
1101.10 of the City Code, the zoning district adjoining each side of such
street, alley, or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of
such vacation, and all area included in the vacation shall then and henceforth
be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
   Subd. 3.   Designation. All streets, alleys, public ways, and railroad
rights-of-way, if not otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be
in the same zone as the property in the most restrictive classification
immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets, public ways, or railroad
rights-of-way. Where the centerline of a street, alley, public way, or railroad
right-of-way serves as the district boundary, the zoning of such areas, unless
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be the same as that of
the abutting property up to such centerline.
   Subd. 4.   Water Areas. All areas within the corporate limits of the city
which are under water and which are not shown as included within any zone shall
be subject to all regulations of the zone which immediately adjoins such water
area. If such water area adjoins two or more zones the boundaries of each zone
shall be construed to be extended into the water area in a straight line until
they meet the other district at the halfway point and/or to the corporate
limits.
§ 1003.03 Zoning Map.
The location and boundaries of the districts established by this text are
hereby set forth on the official “Big Lake Zoning Map.” Said map shall be on
file with the Zoning Administrator, and hereinafter referred to as the “zoning
map.” Said map and all the notations, references, and other information shown
thereon shall have the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein and
thereby made a part of this chapter by reference.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 6-14-2023)
§ 1003.04 Annexations.
All territory hereafter annexed to the city which is not shown on the zoning
map shall automatically, upon annexation, be classified within the Agricultural
District and shall be subject to all regulations, notations, references, and
conditions as are applicable to said district until such time that a
determination may be made as to the proper district classification for such
territory and an amendment can be made to that effect.
§ 1003.05 Use Table.
The use table in this subsection identifies the uses allowed within zoning
districts.
   Subd. 1.   Uses. Uses are defined in subsection
1001.02. Uses not defined are subject to standard dictionary definitions.
   Subd. 2.   Permitted Uses. Uses identified in the zoning district column
with the letter “P” are allowed as permitted uses in the respective zoning
district.
   Subd. 3.   Accessory Uses. Uses identified in the zoning district column
with the letter “A” are allowed as accessory uses in the respective zoning
district.
   Subd. 4.   Administrative Uses. Uses identified in the zoning district
column with the letter “AP” are allowed as administrative uses in the
respective zoning district. Administrative uses must obtain an administrative
permit, subject to the performance standards in this chapter and procedures in
subsection
1002.05, prior to commencing.
   Subd. 5.   Conditional Uses. Uses identified in the zoning district column
with the letter “C” are allowed as conditional uses in the respective zoning
district. Conditional uses must obtain a conditional use permit, subject to the
performance standards in this chapter and procedures in subsection
1002.08, prior to commencing.
   Subd. 6.   Interim Uses. Uses identified in the zoning district column with
the letter “I” are allowed as interim uses in the respective zoning district.
Interim uses must obtain an interim use permit, subject to the performance
standards in this chapter and procedures in subsection
1002.09, prior to commencing.
   Subd. 7.   The code reference column in the table below provides information
about the City Code section establishing additional standards required for
certain uses.
TABLE 1
Use AG R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5 Code Reference
TABLE 1
Use           AG       R-1      R-2      R-3      R-4      R-5       Code
                                                                     Reference
Accessory     C        C        C                        C         Subsection
dwelling unit                                                        1006.07
Accessory
structures
and uses                                                             Subsection
incidental    AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       AP        1005.02
and customary
to the uses
allowed
Agriculture,
farms,
nursery
farms,
greenhouses
for growing
only,         P                                         
landscape
gardening,
including
sale of
products only
grown on
premises
Alternative                                                          Subsection
energy        AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       AP        1005.08
systems
Antennas      A, AP,   A, AP,   A, AP,   A, AP,   A, AP,   A, AP, C, Subsection
              C, P     C, P     C, P     C, P     C, P     P         1005.02
Assisted                                                             Subsection
living                                C                         1006.07
facility
Cannabis                                                             Subsection
cultivation   P                                                      1005.15
(outdoor)
Cemeteries                                                           Subsection
and memorial  C        C                                C         1006.07
gardens
Day care                                                             Subsection
facility,     C                                                      1006.07
commercial
Day care                                                             Subsection
facility, in  A        A        A        A        A        A         1006.07
home
Detached
accessory                                             C         Subsection
structure                                                            1006.07
(off-site)
Dwelling,                             P                 
multifamily
Dwellings,
single-family P        P        P                        P
detached
Dwellings,                    P        P                C
townhomes
Dwellings,                    P        P                C
two-family
Essential                                                            Subsection
services      P, AP, C P, AP, C P, AP, C P, AP, C P, AP, C P, AP, C  1005.04,
                                                                     1006.07
Fences        AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       AP        Subsection
                                                                     1006.05
Garage        A        A        A        A        A        A         Subsection
                                                                     1006.02
Gardening and
other
horticultural
uses, with no A        A        A        A        A        A
sale of
products on
premises
Golf courses,
archery
ranges, ski
clubs, and
other private P                                         
recreational
land uses of
a similar
nature
Grading and                                                          Subsection
mining        I        I        I        I        I        I         1005.05
operations
Grading,                                                             Subsection
filling, and  AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       AP        1005.05
excavating
Home          A, C     A, C     A, C     A, C     A, C     A, C      Subsection
occupations                                                          1003.13
Keeping of    A        A        A        A        A        A         Section
animals                                                              390
Kennels,      I                                                 Subsection
commercial                                                           1006.07
Manufactured                                  C         
home park
Model homes/
temporary             AP       AP       AP       I        AP        Subsection
real estate                                                          1005.06
office
Off-street                    A        A        A        A
loading
Outdoor wood  A        A        A        A        A        A
burner
Public,
educational,  C        C        C        C        C        C         Subsection
and religious                                                        1006.07
buildings
Recreation,   P        P        P        P        P        P
public
Recreational
field,        C        C        C        C        C        C         Subsection
structure, or                                                        1006.07
building
Recreational  A        A        A        A        A        A         Subsection
vehicles                                                             1005.07
Septic and    I                                                      Subsection
well                                                                 1006.07
Short-term                                                           Subsection
rental        AP       AP       AP       AP                AP        1006.07
housing
Signs         A        A, C     A, C     A, C     A, C     A, C      Section
                                                                     1300
Solar farms   I                                         
and gardens
State
licensed
residential   P        P                                P
facility (6
or fewer
people)
State
licensed
residential                   C        C        C                 Subsection
facility (7                                                          1006.07
or more
people)
Temporary     I        I        I        I        I        I
classroom
Temporary
mobile towers
for personal  AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       AP        Subsection
wireless                                                             1005.02
service
antennas
Temporary                                                            Subsection
structures    AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       AP        1002.10
and uses
Uses
incidental
and directly
related to    A        A        A        A        A        A
public and
private
recreational
facilities
Table 2
Use B-1 B-2 CI I-1 I-2 I-3 Section Reference
Table 2
Use            B-1      B-2      CI       I-1      I-2      I-3      Section
                                                                     Reference
Accessory
structures and
uses                                                                 Subsection
incidental and AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       1005.02
customary to
the uses
allowed
Animal         P        P        P        P        P        P
hospital
Animal         P        P        P        P        P        P
grooming
Antennas       A, AP,   A, AP,   A, AP,   A, AP,   A, AP,   A, AP,   Subsection
               C, P     C, P     C, P     C, P     C, P     C, P     1005.02
Artisan
studio/        P        P        P        P                 P
makerspace
Auction        P        P        P        P        P        P
facility
Auto repair
(major/minor),         C                                            Subsection
with a retail                                                        1006.07
component
Automobile                                P        P        P
repair, major
Banks, credit
unions, and
other          P        P        P
financial
institutions
Bed and
breakfast      P        P
establishment
Breweries,     P        P        P        P        P        P
taproom
Brewpubs       P        P        P
Cannabis                                                             Subsection
cultivation    P        P        P        P        P        P        1005.15
(indoor)
Cannabis
manufacturing, P        P        P        P        P        P        Subsection
processing,                                                          1005.15
extraction
Cannabis       P        P        P        P                          Subsection
retail                                                               1005.15
Cannabis       P        P        P        P        P        P        Subsection
wholesale                                                            1005.15
Canopies       A        A        A                                   Subsection
                                                                     1006.07
Car wash       C        C                                            Subsection
                                                                     1006.07
Catering/
commercial     P        P        P                          P
kitchen
Contractor’s                            P        P                 Subsection
operations                                                           1006.07
Co-working
space/flexible P        P        P        P                 P
office space
Day care                                                             Subsection
facility,      C        C                                            1006.07
commercial
Day care, as a                                                       Subsection
conditional                      C        C        C        C        1006.07
accessory use
Dispatch       P         
center
Distribution                              P        P
center
Drive through  A        A                                            Subsection
lanes                                                                1006.07
Dry cleaning,
laundromat,    P        P
laundry
service
Essential                                                            Subsection
services       P, AP, C P, AP, C P, AP, C P, AP, C P, AP, C P, AP, C 1005.04,
                                                                     1006.07
Event center   P        P        P        P        P        P
Farmer’s     AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       AP
market
Fences         AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       Subsection
                                                                     1006.04
Firearm range                                      C
Funeral homes  P        P        P        P        P        P
and mortuaries
Garage,        A        A        A        A        A        A
private
Grading, land                                                        Subsection
filling, and   AP, I    AP, I    AP, I    AP, I    AP, I    AP, I    1005.05
excavation
Grocery,               P
supermarket
Health clubs   P        P        P        P
Hemp           P        P        P        P        P        P        Subsection
manufacturing                                                        1005.15
Hospitals and  P        P        P        P        P        P
medical campus
Hotels and     P        P        P
motels
Keeping of             A        A        A        P                 Section
animals                                                              390
Kennels,                                  I        I                 Subsection
commercial                                                           1006.07
Laboratories                   P        P        P        P
Liquor, on-
sale or off-   P        P
sale
Manufacturing,
compounding,
assembly,      C        C        P        P        P        P
packaging,
treatment of
products
Motor fuel     C        C                                            Subsection
station                                                              1006.07
Motor vehicle          C                 C        C                 Subsection
sales                                                                1006.07
Motor vehicle                                               P
sales, indoor
Retail and
personal       P        P        P
service
business
Offices,
professional/  P        P        P
medical
Office/
warehouse or                              P        P        P
business
Off-street     A        A        A        A        A        A
loading
Open sales lot          A
Outdoor                                                              Subsection
dining,        AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       1006.07
accessory
Outdoor sales                                                        Subsection
and services,  C        C                                            1006.07
accessory
Outdoor                                                              Subsection
storage,                                           I        AP, I    1006.07
accessory
Parking ramp   P        P        P        P        P        P
Processing or                    P        P        P        P
fabrication
Public,
educational,   C        C        C        C        C        C        Subsection
and religious                                                        1006.07
buildings
Radio and
television     P        P        P        P        P        P
stations
Recreation,             P        P        P        P        P
commercial
Recreation,
field,         C        C        C        C        C        C        Subsection
structure, or                                                        1006.07
building
Recreation,    P        P        P        P        P        P
public
Restaurant     P        P        P
Restaurant/
cafeteria      A        A        A        A        A        A        Subsection
accessory to                                                         1006.07
an allowed use
Self-service
storage                                   P        P        P
facility
Sexually                                                             Subsection
oriented       P, A     P, A     P, A     P, A     P, A     P, A     1005.11
business
Shopping               P
center
Signs          A, AP, C A, AP, C A, AP, C A, AP, C A, AP, C A, AP, C Section
                                                                     1300
Sports arena                                       C        C
and stadiums
State licensed
residential
facility (> 7  P        P
or more
persons)
Storage,               I
containerized
Temporary                                                            Subsection
structures and AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       AP       1002.10
uses
Trade or
business               P        P
schools
Transit        P        P        P        P        P        P
station
Truck or                                                             Subsection
freight                                            C                 1006.07
terminal
Vehicle                                                              Subsection
rental,                I                                            1006.07
accessory
Wholesale
showrooms,
warehousing,            P        P        P        P        P
and indoor
storage
(Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-22-2025)
§ 1003.06 AG, Agricultural District.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The Agricultural Zoning District is established for the
purpose of preserving and maintaining the use of land for agricultural
purposes, to prevent scattered and disorderly urbanization, and to protect and
preserve natural resources. In areas of the city where municipal sewer and
water are available or planned, the purpose of the Agricultural District is to
provide a holding zone until a landowner/developer makes application for
development, at which time, the city may rezone the affected property
consistent with its designation in the Comprehensive Plan, provided that the
development does not result in the premature extension of public utilities,
facilities, and services as specified above.
   Subd. 2.   Uses Allowed. Uses allowed within the district are as described
in subsection 1003.05.
   Subd. 3.   Use Standards. Uses are subject to the applicable provisions of
the performance standards in Section 1006 and the process requirements in
Section 1002.
   Subd. 4.   Lot Area, Height, and Setback Requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in an AG District subject to additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this chapter.
TABLE 3
AG, AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
 Requirements
TABLE 3
AG, AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
                                   Requirements
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS             
Maximum height principal structure 35 feet
Minimum lot area                   5 acres
Minimum lot width                  500 feet
Principal Structure Setbacks        
Front                              50 feet
Rear                               30 feet
Side                               20 feet
SOLAR FARMS AND SOLAR GARDENS       
Maximum height solar panels        15 feet at maximum tilt
Minimum lot area                   5 acres
Minimum lot width                  500 feet
Solar Panel Setbacks                
Front                              20 feet
Rear                               20 feet
Side                               20 feet
OTHER USES                          
Maximum height principal structure 35 feet
Minimum lot area                   20 acres
Minimum lot width                  500 feet
Principal Structure Setbacks        
Front                              100 feet (or as specifically identified)
Rear                               40 feet (or as specifically identified)
Side                               50 feet (or as specifically identified)
 
   Subd. 5.   Density. The maximum density within the AG District shall be one
dwelling unit per quarter/quarter section.
   Subd. 6.   Quarter/Quarter Residential Divisions. In a complete quarter/
quarter section which contains no dwellings, one parcel may be subdivided to be
used as a residential site, provided that:
         1.   The division shall meet the minimum lot and yard requirements of
this subsection;
         2.   A deed restriction shall be placed upon parcels that have
exercised development rights to prohibit additional subdivision, until such a
time as it is rezoned and public sewer and water services are provided;
         3.   The initial quarter/quarter section is under common ownership;
         4.   The division is processed according to the city’s subdivision
ordinance; and
         5.   The site is capable of accommodating a private well and septic
system and an alternative septic system site, should the initial site fail.
§ 1003.07 R-1, Single-Family Residential District.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of the R-1, Single-Family Residential
District is to provide for low density single-family detached residential
dwelling units and directly related, accessory, and complimentary uses.
   Subd. 2.   Uses. Uses allowed within the district are as described in
subsection 1003.05.
   Subd. 3.   Uses Standards. Uses are subject to the applicable provisions of
the performance standards in Section 1006 and the process requirements in
Section 1002.
   Subd. 4.   Lot Area, Height, and Setback Requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the R-1 District subject to additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this chapter.
TABLE 4
R1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT *
 Requirements
TABLE 4
R1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT *
                                   Requirements
SINGLE-FAMILY                       
Maximum height principal structure 35 feet
Maximum impervious surface         35%
coverage
Minimum lot area                   10,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                  75 feet
Principal Structure Setbacks        
Front                              30 feet
Rear                               30 feet
Side                               10 feet
OTHER USES                          
Maximum height principal structure 35 feet
Minimum lot area                   20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                  100 feet
Principal Structure Setbacks        
Front                              50 feet
Rear                               40 feet
Side                               20 feet
ALL USES                            
Arterial road                      50 feet
Collector road                     45 feet
Railroad setback                   100 feet
Residential driveway setback       5 feet
Wetland setback and buffer         30 feet (from delineated boundary)
Note to Table:
*   All uses located within the Shoreland Overlay District are subject to the
standards in subsection 1004.03
 
§ 1003.08 R-2, Medium Density Residential District.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of the R-2, Medium Density Residential
District is to provide for low to medium density development through the
mixture of single, two unit, and townhome dwellings and directly related,
complementary uses. Development of two-family and single-family detached
residential dwelling units and directly related, accessory, and complementary
uses.
   Subd. 2.   Uses. Uses allowed within the district are as described in
subsection
1003.05.
   Subd. 3.   Uses Standards. Uses are subject to the applicable provisions of
the performance standards in Section 1006 and the process requirements in
Section
1002.
   Subd. 4.   Lot Area, Height, and Setback Requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the R-2 District subject to additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this chapter.
TABLE 5
R-2, MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT *
 Requirements
TABLE 5
R-2, MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT *
                                  Requirements
SINGLE-FAMILY                      
Maximum height principal          35 feet
structure
Minimum lot area                  8,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                 60 feet
Principal Structure Setbacks       
Front                             25 feet
Minimum setback between buildings 10 feet
Rear                              25 feet
Side                              10 feet
TWO UNIT/TOWNHOME UNIT             
Maximum height principal          35 feet
structure
Minimum base lot area             12,000 square feet
Minimum base lot width            100 feet
Principal Structure Setbacks       
Front                             25 feet
Minimum setback between buildings 10 feet
Rear                              25 feet
Side                              10 feet (0 lot line setback interior unit)
OTHER USES                         
Maximum height principal          35 feet
structure
Minimum lot area                  20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                 100 feet
Principal Structure Setbacks       
Front                             50 feet
Rear                              40 feet
Side                              20 feet
ALL USES                           
Arterial road                     50 feet
Collector road                    45 feet
Railroad setback                  100 feet
Residential driveway setback      5 feet
Wetland setback and buffer        30 feet (from delineated boundary)
Note to Table:
*   All uses located within the Shoreland Overlay District are subject to the
standards in subsection 1004.03
 
§ 1003.09 R-3, High Density Residential District.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of the R-3, High Density Residential
District is to provide for medium to high density residential uses. Development
of townhome and multiple-family apartments and directly related, accessory, and
complimentary uses are a means of addressing the city’s life cycle housing
needs.
   Subd. 2.   Uses. Uses allowed within the district are as described in
subsection
1003.05.
   Subd. 3.   Uses Standards. Uses are subject to the applicable provisions of
the performance standards in Section 1006 and the process requirements in
Section
1002.
   Subd. 4.   Lot Area, Height, and Setback Requirements; Attached and
Multiple-Family Dwelling Lots. The following minimum requirements shall be
observed in the R-3 District subject to additional requirements, exceptions,
and modifications set forth in this chapter.
TABLE 6
R-3, HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT *
 Requirements
TABLE 6
R-3, HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT *
                                  Requirements
TWO UNIT/TOWNHOME UNIT             
Back curb line                    25 feet
Guest parking areas               25 feet
Minimum base lot area             12,000 square feet
Minimum base lot width            100 feet
Minimum setback between buildings 15 feet
Minimum unit lot width            24 feet
Principal structure setbacks      30 feet
Public rights-of-way              25 feet
MULTI-FAMILY                       
Back curb line                    25 feet
Guest parking areas               25 feet
Maximum height principal          4 stories
structure
Minimum base lot area             15,000 square feet
Minimum base lot width            100 feet
Minimum setback between buildings 15 feet
Principal structure setbacks      30 feet
Public rights-of-way              25 feet
OTHER USES                         
Front                             50 feet
Maximum height principal          35 feet
structure
Minimum lot area                  20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                 100 feet
Principal structure setbacks       
Rear                              40 feet
Side                              20 feet
ALL USES                           
Arterial road                     50 feet
Collector road                    45 feet
Railroad setback                  100 feet
Residential driveway setback      5 feet
Wetland setback and buffer        30 feet (from delineated boundary)
Note to Table:
*   All uses located within the Shoreland Overlay District are subject to the
standards in subsection 1004.03
 
   Subd. 5.   Transition Requirement. Any R-3 zoned property abutting an AG, R-
1, or R-5 District shall have a minimum of one tier of single-family detached,
two-family dwelling lots, or detached townhomes bordering such a district and
that tier shall be subject to the same lot and building standards as the R-
2 District. Exemptions to the provisions of this section may be granted subject
to the approval of an Zoning Administrator at the time of development; provided
one or more of the following conditions exist:
         1.   The properties are separated by a major collector or arterial
street;
         2.   The abutting land use is a non-residential use allowed in the
district in which it is located; and
         3.   The properties are separated by a railroad right-of-way, wetland,
water body, floodplain, public open space, park, or such other similar publicly
reserved and development restricted area with a minimum width of 100 feet
across its entire length.
§ 1003.10 R-4, Single-Family Manufactured Home Park District.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of the R-4, Single-Family Manufactured Home
Park District is to provide a separate district for manufactured home parks,
distinct from other residential areas with uses.
   Subd. 2.   Uses. Uses allowed within the district area are as described in
subsection
1003.05.
   Subd. 3.   Uses Standards. Uses are subject to the applicable provisions of
the performance standards in Section
1006 and the process requirements in Section
1002.
   Subd. 4.   Lot Area, Height, and Setback Requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the R-4 District subject to additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this chapter.
TABLE 7
R-4, SINGLE-FAMILY MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT *
 Requirements
TABLE 7
R-4, SINGLE-FAMILY MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT *
                           Requirements
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK      
Manufactured home setback  20 feet to street line
Maximum lot coverage       35%
Minimum area               8 acres
Minimum width              300 feet
Open space minimum width/  20 feet
length
Open space requirement     500 square feet per mobile home
Setback from AG District   75 feet
MANUFACTURED HOME UNITS     
Front setback              20 feet
Maximum building height    25 feet
Rear setback               10 feet
Setback between units      20 feet
Side setback               10 feet
Wetland setback and buffer 30 feet
Note to Table:
*   All uses located within the Shoreland Overlay District are subject to
the standards in subsection 1004.03
 
         1.   General Provisions for All Manufactured Home Parks.
            a.   Area. All land area shall be:
               i.   Adequately drained;
               ii.   Landscaped to control dust;
               iii.   Clean and fee from refuse, garbage, rubbish, or debris;
and
               iv.   The manufactured home stand shall be at such elevation,
distance, and angle relative to the street and driveway that placement and
removal of the mobile home with a car, tow truck, or other customary moving
equipment is practical. The manufactured home stand shall have a longitudinal
grade of less than 4% and transverse crown or grade to provide adequate surface
drainage. The stand shall be compacted and surfaced with a material which will
prevent the growth of vegetation while supporting the maximum anticipated loads
during all seasons.
            b.   Recreational Camping. No portion of a manufactured home park
shall be used as a recreational camping area.
            c.   Public Access. Public access to manufactured housing parks
shall be as approved by the city.
            d.   Building Permit. All structures (fences, storage, decks, and
the like) shall require a building permit from the Building Official. Fences
shall be prohibited on individual manufactured home lots.
            e.   Access. The area beneath a manufactured home shall be enclosed
except that such enclosure must have access for inspection.
            f.   Community Building. A manufactured home park shall have a
central community building with restroom facilities, heating in all areas, and
adequate storm protection design and capacity to serve the manufactured home
park. Such buildings shall be maintained in a safe, clean, and sanitary
condition.
            g.   Emergency Storm Protections. Manufactured home parks
established prior to July 1, 1993, shall comply with emergency storm
protections as required by Minnesota Statutes. A new manufactured home park
established after July 1, 1993, shall have storm shelters in compliance with
Minnesota Statutes. Additionally, all emergency storm protection measures shall
be subject to the approval of the City Council.
            h.   Ground Anchoring. All manufacture homes shall be secured by a
ground anchoring system which conforms to M.S. § 327.32, subd. 1, as it may be
amended from time to time.
            i.   Antenna. Antenna regulations imposed in the R-4 Zoning
District shall be the same as those applied in the city’s R-1 District and as
regulated by subsection
1005.02.
            j.   Permitted encroachments.
               i.   Attached steps, uncovered stoops, and landings may encroach
up to five feet into a side yard setback, provided that they do not exceed 20
square feet in area or extend closer than ten feet to a structure on an
adjacent lot.
               ii.   An eave or overhang may encroach up to one foot into a
front, side, and rear setback.
               iii.   Decks may encroach a maximum of ten feet into a side yard
setback, provided that they do not exceed 100 square feet in area and that they
are set back at least ten feet from any structure on an adjacent lot.
            k.   Utilities.
               i.   All manufactured home parks shall be connected to a public
water and sanitary sewer system.
               ii.   All installations for disposal of surface storm water must
be approved by the city.
               iii.   All utility connections shall be as approved by the city.
               iv.   The source of fuel for cooking, heating, or other purposes
at each manufactured home site shall be as approved by the city.
               v.   All utilities shall be underground; there shall be no
overhead wires or supporting poles except those essential for street or other
lighting purposes. When piped fuel and/or gas is provided by the mobile home
park to each mobile home stand, the service shall also be located underground.
               vi.   No obstruction shall be permitted that impedes the
inspection of plumbing, electrical facilities, and related manufactured home
equipment.
               vii.   The method of garbage, waste, and trash disposal must be
approved by the city.
               viii.   The manufactured home park owner shall pay any required
sewer and water connection fees to the city.
               ix.   The manufactured home park owner shall pay inspection and
testing fees for utility service to the city.
            l.   Storage Lockers. Enclosed storage lockers, when provided,
shall be located either adjacent to the manufactured home in a manufactured
home park or at such other place in the park as to be convenient to the unit
for which it is provided. Storage of large items such as boats, boat trailers,
and the like shall not be accomplished at the site of the manufactured home
unit, but rather shall be provided in a separate screened area of the park.
            m.   Accessory Buildings. Accessory buildings as permitted by
subsection
1005.01.
         2.   Design Requirements for Manufactured Home Parks.
            a.   Parking.
               i.   Each manufactured home site shall have off-street parking
space for two passenger vehicles. At least one parking space shall be located
upon the lot of the unit established above. Remaining spaces shall be in a
group compound located no further than 300 feet from the units for which they
are designed.
               ii.   All parking spaces shall be hard surfaced according to
specifications established by the city.
            b.   Internal Roads and Streets.
               i.   All streets shall be private streets and shall be a minimum
of 22 feet in width.
               ii.   Public access to a mobile home park shall be so designed
as to permit a minimum number of ingress and egress points to control traffic
movement, and to keep undesirable through traffic out of the park.
               iii.   Streets within the park shall be paved and developed with
curb and gutter to control storm surface drainage to the storm sewer system.
The street improvements shall extend continuously from existing improved
streets to provide access to each lot and to provide connections to existing or
future streets and boundaries of the mobile home park.
               iv.   Streets and parking areas shall be surfaced for all-
weather travel with not less than four inches of crushed stone, gravel, or
other suitable base material topped with not less than two inches of
bituminous, or four inches of concrete. The surface shall be limited at the
edge by a concrete curb not less than four inches high.
               v.   Pedestrian sidewalks shall be developed within the mobile
home park.
            c.   Recreation. All manufactured home parks shall have at least
500 square feet per mobile home developed for recreational use (tennis courts,
children’s play equipment, swimming pool, golf green, open space, and the
like). The areas of open space and/or play area shall not be areas included
within any setback nor shall they include any areas of less than 20 feet in
length or width.
            d.   Landscaping.
               i.   Each manufactured home lot shall be provided with one tree.
The size and type of trees must meet the requirements of subsection
1006.06.
               ii.   All areas shall be landscaped in accordance with a
landscaping plan approved by the City Council.
   Subd. 5.   Operational Standards for Manufactured Home Park. The operator of
any manufactured home park, or a duly authorized attendant and/or caretaker,
shall be responsible at all times for keeping the manufactured home park, its
facilities, and equipment, in a clean, orderly, operable, and sanitary
condition. The attendant or caretaker shall be answerable, along with said
operator, for the violation of any provisions of these regulations to which
said operator is subject.
   Subd. 6.   Registration.
         1.   It shall be the duty of the operator of the mobile home park to
keep a register containing a record of all mobile home owners and occupants
located within the park. The register shall contain the following information:
            a.   The name and address of each mobile home occupant;
            b.   The name and address of the owner of each mobile home;
            c.   The make, model, year, and license and number of each mobile
home;
            d.   The state, territory, or county issuing the license;
            e.   The date of arrival and departure of each mobile home;
            f.   The number and type of motor vehicles or residents in the
park; and
            g.   A statement certifying the safety of the home signed by the
occupant and renewable each 90 days.
         2.   A map of the manufactured home park showing the location,
address, and number of each mobile home unit site shall be prominently
displayed within the park near the park entrance.
         3.   The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all
times by city and county law enforcement officers, public health officials, and
other public offices whose duty necessitates acquisition of the information
contained in the register. The register record for each occupant and/or mobile
home registered shall not be destroyed until after a period of three years
following the date of departure of the registrant from the park.
§ 1003.11 R-5, Residential Redevelopment District.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of the R-5, Residential Redevelopment
District is to provide for single-family, two-family, and townhome residential
development and redevelopment of the older areas of the community located
primarily within the shoreland management areas adjacent to Big, Mitchell, and
Keller Lakes. The standards identified herein are intended to allow for the
redevelopment of existing properties in a manner that is sensitive to the
shoreland areas of Big, Mitchell, and Keller Lakes. These areas are virtually
fully developed and contain plats dating generally from 1892 to the early
1950s. The areas are characterized by small lots ranging from 40 to 60 feet in
width and neighborhoods contain a mixture of seasonal cabins and older single-
family homes that are located at various setbacks and along narrow platted
alleys and streets. The predominance of small lots, existing development
patterns, and the desire by residents and the city to upgrade housing in this
area, precipitated the need to develop special standards to guide owners in the
maintenance, update, and redevelopment of existing properties.
   Subd. 2.   Uses. Uses allowed within the district are as described in
subsection
1003.05.
   Subd. 3.   Uses Standards. Uses are subject to the applicable provisions of
the performance standards in Section
1006 and the process requirements in Section
1002.
   Subd. 4.   Lot Area, Height, and Setback Requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the R-5 District subject to additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this chapter.
TABLE 8
R-5, RESIDENTIAL REDEVELOPMENT DISTRICT *
 Requirements
TABLE 8
R-5, RESIDENTIAL REDEVELOPMENT DISTRICT *
                                      Requirements
MINIMUM SETBACK STANDARDS FOR ALL      
USES
Arterial road                         50 feet
Bluff, top of bluff                   30 feet
Collector road                        45 feet
Impervious surface coverage           35%
Local road                            20 feet
Maximum building height               35 feet or 2.5 stories
Railroad setback                      100 feet
Residential driveway setback          5 feet from side lot line
Wetland setback and buffer            30 feet
SINGLE-FAMILY NEW SUBDIVISION          
Minimum Lot Area                       
Minimum lot width                     75 feet
Non-riparian lot                      10,000 square feet
Riparian lot                          12,000 square feet
Setbacks                               
Front                                 25 feet
Rear                                  25 feet
Side                                  5 feet
SINGLE-FAMILY EXISTING LOTS OF RECORD  
Minimum lot area                      Size per approved final plat
Minimum lot width                     Width per approved final plat
Setbacks                               
Front                                 20 feet
Rear                                  10 feet
Side                                  5 feet
TWO-FAMILY/TOWNHOME AND OTHER USES     
Minimum lot area                      20,000 square feet
Minimum base lot width                100 feet
Minimum unit lot width                24 feet
Setbacks                               
Front                                 20 feet
Maximum impervious surface coverage   75%
Rear                                  10 feet
Side                                  5 feet
Note to Table:
*   All uses located within the Shoreland Overlay District are subject to the
standards in subsection 1004.03
 
         1.   Bluff Impact Zones. Structures and accessory facilities, except
stairways, lifts, and landings, must not be placed within bluff impact zones.
         2.   Shore Impact Zones. Structures and accessory facilities, except
docks, must not be placed within shore impact zones.
         3.   Residential Lot Standards; Impervious Surface Coverage. The
maximum allowed lot coverage by impervious surfaces is 35% on non-Shoreland
Overlay District properties, as identified in the city’s current zoning map.
Properties within the Shoreland Overlay District are allowed a maximum lot
coverage by impervious surfaces of 25%, unless otherwise stated below.
            a.   Paver stone driveways, sidewalks, and patios that receive all
required permits and are properly installed with a sand base and sufficient
spacing to allow for drainage shall count towards 50% of the area covered for
the purposes of calculating the overall lot coverage.
            b.   The impervious surface coverage on Shoreland Overlay District
properties may be increased up to 50% of the total lot area by a conditional
use permit as set forth in and regulated by subsection 1002.08 and the
following criteria:
               i.   All structures, additions, or expansions shall meet setback
and other requirements of this chapter;
               ii.   The lot shall be served by municipal sewer and water;
               iii.   The lot shall provide for the collection and treatment of
storm water in compliance with the City Storm Water Management Plan if
determined that the site improvements will result in increased runoff directly
entering a public water. All development plans shall require review and
approval by the City Engineer; and
               iv.   Measures to be taken for the treatment of storm water
runoff and/or prevention of storm water from directly entering a public water.
The measures may include, but not be limited to the following:
                  (a)   Appurtenances as sedimentation basins, debris basins,
desilting basins, or silt traps;
                  (b)   Installation of debris guards and microsilt basins on
storm sewer inlets;
                  (c)   Use, where practical, oil skimming devices or sump
catch basins;
                  (d)   Direct drainage away from the lake and into pervious,
grassed yards through site grading, use of gutters, and downspouts;
                  (e)   Sidewalks are constructed with partially pervious
raised materials such as decking which has natural or other pervious material
beneath or between the planking;
                  (f)   Grading and construction techniques are used which
encourage rapid infiltration, e.g., sand and gravel, under impervious materials
with adjacent infiltration swales graded to lead into them;
                  (g)   Berms, water bars, or terraces are installed which
temporarily detain water before dispersing it into pervious area; and
                  (h)   Installation of a minimum 15-foot wide buffer from the
OHWL. This buffer would be treated similar to a wetland buffer where native
grasses and the like would be required and mowing and dumping would not be
permitted.
            c.   All structures and impervious surfaces shall be located on
slopes less than 12%. The physical alteration of slopes shall not be permitted
for the purpose of overcoming this limitation.
            d.   Site developments shall be designed, implemented, and
maintained using the most applicable combination of comprehensive practices
that prevent flooding, pollutant, erosion, and sedimentation problems
consistent with Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas, Best Management
Practices for Minnesota, State Pollution Control Agency, October 1989, or as
amended, which is incorporated by reference, available at the State Law Library
and not subject to frequent change.
            e.   The city may impose additional conditions if determined
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
         4.   Single-Family Lot Standards; Existing Lots of Record. An existing
lot of record, legally established in accordance with ordinance requirements
existing at the time of its creation, and being a separate, distinct tax parcel
since September 13, 1979, is buildable subject to the standards identified in
this Subdivision and additional requirements, exceptions, and modifications set
forth in this chapter.
            a.   Side yard setback requirements may be reduced to 20% of the
lot width, 10% to be located on each side of a structure, in such cases where
the lot size is less than 75 feet. In no case shall the side yard setback be
less than five feet from the property line.
            b.   In cases where the rear or side yard of a lot opens into an
alley, the rear or side yard setback shall be equal to one-half the width of
the platted alley.
            c.   The front yard setback requirements shall be observed on each
street side of a corner lot; provided however, that the buildable width of a
lot shall not be reduced to less than 30 feet.
            d.   The lot must have frontage on a public street.
            e.   In addition to all other applicable setback requirements, new
accessory structures (except for fences) shall not be closer than six feet to
any existing principal structure on any adjacent lot unless firewall
installation or other mitigation measures are approved. In addition to all
other applicable setback requirements, new principal structures, and new
additions to principal structures shall not be closer than ten feet to any
existing principal structure on any adjacent lot unless approved by the
Building Official. The Building Official’s approval may require the submittal
of plans showing a proposed firewall installation or other mitigation measures.
            f.   All performance standards and other lot and yard requirements
of this chapter are met.
            g.   The proposed development shall be consistent with the
character and quality of the immediate area and the objectives of the city’s
Comprehensive Plan and zoning ordinance.
         5.   Two-Family/Townhome and Other Uses Lot Standards. The following
minimum requirements shall be observed in the R-5 District subject to
additional requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this
chapter.
            a.   Setback between buildings within the same base lot shall
maintain a minimum separation of 15 feet.
            b.   Two-family and townhomes shall not be located on lakeshore
lots.
            c.   Provisions for adequate on-site storm water retention and/or
compliance with the City Storm Water Management Plan shall be required.
            d.   The following open space standards shall be provided:
               i.   At least 25% of the total development area shall be
preserved as open space. The open space standard may be modified for planned
unit development (PUD) projects;
               ii.   Dwelling units or sites, land covered by road surfaces,
parking areas, or structures are developed areas and shall not be included in
the computation of minimum open space; and
               iii.   Open space shall include areas with physical
characteristics unsuitable for development in their natural state, and areas
containing significant historic sites or unplatted cemeteries.
            e.   Centralization and design of facilities and structures shall
be done according to the following standards.
               i.   Dwelling units or sites shall be clustered into one or more
groups and located on suitable areas of the development. They shall be designed
and located to meet or exceed the following dimensional standards for the
relevant shoreland classification: setback from the ordinary high water level,
elevation above the surface water features, and maximum height.
               ii.   Structures, parking areas, and other facilities shall be
treated to reduce visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent
shorelands by vegetation, topography, increased setbacks, or color, assuming
summer, leaf-on conditions. Vegetative and topographic screening shall be
preserved, if existing, or may be required to be provided.
               iii.   Accessory structures and facilities shall meet the
required principal structure setback and shall be centralized.
            f.   Two-Family Townhome and Other Uses; Impervious Surface
Standards.
               i.   New construction on conforming lots or an existing site
being altered, remodeled, or expanded which expands the existing impervious
surface coverage may be permitted, provided the impervious surface coverage
does not exceed 75% of the total lot, and provided the following stipulations
are met.
                  (a)   All structures, additions, or expansions shall meet
setback and other requirements of this chapter.
                  (b)   The lot shall be served by municipal sewer and water.
                  (c)   The lot shall provide for the collection and treatment
of storm water in compliance with the City Storm Water Management Plan if
determined that the site improvements will result in increased runoff directly
entering a public water. All development plans shall require review and
approval by the City Engineer.
                  (d)   Measures for the treatment of storm water runoff and/or
prevention of storm water from directly entering a public water include such
appurtenances as sediment basins (debris basins, desilting basins, or silt
traps), installation of debris guards and microsilt basins on storm sewer
inlets, oil skimming devices, and the like.
   Subd. 5.   Construction on Substandard Lots of Record.
         1.   Lots of record in the office of the County Recorder on or before
October 29, 1985 that do not meet the requirements of subsection 1006.02, Subd.
3, may be allowed as building sites without variances from lot size
requirements under the following provisions:
            a.   The use is permitted in the zoning district;
            b.   The lot was created compliant with official controls in effect
at the time;
            c.   Sewage treatment and setback requirements of this chapter are
met;
            d.   The lot has been in separate ownership from abutting lands on
or before October 29, 1985;
            e.   All other dimensional requirements of this section shall be
complied with. However, in the event a property owner cannot comply with other
dimensional requirements of this section, because of the limited size of the
lot, that property owner shall be required to obtain a variance where necessary
to prevent hardship; and
            f.   If, in a group of two or more contiguous substandard lots
under the same ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements of
this subsection, the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel of land
for the purposes of sale or development. The lot must be combined with the one
or more contiguous lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting
the requirements of this subsection as much as possible.
   Subd. 6.   Subdivision of Single-Family Lots of Record Under Common
Ownership. Riparian and non-riparian lots of record (platted prior to October
29, 1985) that are located in the Shoreland District and are under common
ownership with an abutting parcel of property on or after July 20, 2002
(effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter was originally
derived), may be further subdivided to create buildable lots provided the
following standards are met:
         1.   All riparian lots must have a minimum of 75 feet of lot width at
the front setback line;
         2.   All riparian (lakeshore) lots must contain at least 12,000 square
feet of lot area above the ordinary high water mark of the public water;
         3.   All non-riparian lots must have a minimum of 50 feet of lot width
at the front setback line;
         4.   All non-riparian lots must contain at least 10,000 square feet of
lot area;
         5.   All lots must have an existing sewer and water stub to the
property; and
         6.   Assessments for sewer and water shall be paid.
§ 1003.12 B-1, Community Business District.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of the B-1, Community Business District is
to provide for the establishment of a district which is a blend of cultural,
recreational, civic, entertainment, commercial retail, office uses, and to
provide for a transition area from high and medium density residential to low
intensity business allowing for the intermixing of such uses.
   Subd. 2.   Uses. Uses allowed within the district are as described in
subsection
1003.05.
   Subd. 3.   Uses Standards. Uses are subject to the applicable provisions of
the performance standards in Section
1006 and the process requirements in Section
1002.
   Subd. 4.   Lot Area, Height, and Setback Requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the B-1 District subject to additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this chapter.
Table 9
B-1, COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT*
Table 9
B-1, COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT*
Minimum lot area                            20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                           100 feet
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE SETBACKS                 
Front                                       30 feet
Railroad right-of-way                       10 feet
Rear                                        30 feet
Side                                        10 feet
Wetland setback and buffer                  30 feet
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE SETBACKS                 
Front                                       Allowed by CUP
Rear                                        10 feet
Side                                        10 feet
PARKING SETBACKS                             
Front                                       10 feet
Rear                                        5 feet
Side                                        5 feet
Structure and parking setback adjacent to R 20 feet
District
BUILDING HEIGHT                             35 feet
ACCESSORY BUILDING HEIGHT                   17 feet
Note to Table:
*   All uses located within the Shoreland Overlay District are subject
to the standards in subsection 1004.03
 
§ 1003.13 B-2, General Business District.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of the B-2, General Business District is to
provide for the establishment of commercial and service activities which draw
from and serve customers from the entire community or sub-region.
   Subd. 2.   Uses. Uses allowed within the district are as described in
subsection
1003.05.
   Subd. 3.   Uses Standards. Uses are subject to the applicable provisions of
the performance standards in Section
1006 and the process requirements in Section
1002.
   Subd. 4.   Lot Area, Height, and Setback Requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the B-2 District subject to additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this chapter.
Table 10
B-2, GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT*
Table 10
B-2, GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT*
Minimum lot area                            20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                           100 feet
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE SETBACKS                 
Front                                       30 feet
Railroad right-of-way                       10 feet
Rear                                        30 feet
Side                                        10 feet
Wetland setback and buffer                  30 feet
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE SETBACKS                 
Front                                       Allowed by CUP
Rear                                        10 feet
Side                                        10 feet
PARKING SETBACKS                             
Front                                       10 feet
Rear                                        5 feet
Side                                        5 feet
Structure and parking setback adjacent to R 20 feet
District
BUILDING HEIGHT                             35 feet
ACCESSORY BUILDING HEIGHT                   17 feet
Note to Table:
*   All uses located within the Shoreland Overlay District are subject
to the standards in subsection 1004.03
 
§ 1003.14 CI, Mixed Use Commercial Industrial District.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of the CI, Mixed Use Commercial Industrial
District is to provide a zoning district where warehousing and light industrial
development can thrive alongside compatible office and commercial uses.
   Subd. 2.   Uses. Uses allowed within the district are as described in
subsection
1003.05.
   Subd. 3.   Uses Standards. Uses are subject to the applicable provisions of
the performance standards in Section
1006 and the process requirements in Section
1002.
   Subd. 4.   Lot Area, Height, and Setback Requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the CI District subject to additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this chapter.
Table 11
CI, MIXED USE COMMERCIAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT*
Table 11
CI, MIXED USE COMMERCIAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT*
Minimum lot area                            40,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                           150 feet
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE SETBACKS                 
Front                                       40 feet
Railroad right-of-way                       10 feet
Rear                                        30 feet
Side                                        20 feet
Wetland setback and buffer                  30 feet
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE SETBACKS                 
Front                                       Allowed by CUP
Rear                                        10 feet
Side                                        10 feet
PARKING SETBACKS                             
Front                                       10 feet
Rear                                        5 feet
Side                                        5 feet
Structure and parking setback adjacent to R 20 feet
District
BUILDING HEIGHT                             35 feet
ACCESSORY BUILDING HEIGHT                   17 feet
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE                 85%
Note to Table:
*   All uses located within the Shoreland Overlay District are subject
to the standards in subsection 1004.03
 
§ 1003.15 I-1, Industrial Park District.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of the I-1, Industrial Park District is to
provide for the establishment of warehousing and light industrial development.
The overall character of the I-1 District is intended to have an office/
warehouse character, thus industrial uses allowed in this district are limited
to those which can compatibly exist adjacent to both lower intensity business
uses and high intensity manufacturing uses.
   Subd. 2.   Uses. Uses allowed within the district are as described in
subsection
1003.05.
   Subd. 3.   Uses Standards. Uses are subject to the applicable provisions of
the performance standards in Section
1006 and the process requirements in Section
1002.
   Subd. 4.   Lot Area, Height, and Setback Requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the I-1 District subject to additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this chapter.
Table 12
I-1, INDUSTRIAL PARK DISTRICT*
Table 12
I-1, INDUSTRIAL PARK DISTRICT*
Minimum lot area                            40,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                           150 feet
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE SETBACKS                 
Front                                       40 feet
Railroad right-of-way                       10 feet
Rear                                        20 feet
Side                                        20 feet
Wetland setback and buffer                  30 feet
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE SETBACKS                 
Front                                       Allowed by CUP
Rear                                        10 feet
Side                                        10 feet
PARKING SETBACKS                             
Front                                       10 feet
Rear                                        5 feet
Side                                        5 feet
Structure and parking setback adjacent to R 20 feet
District
BUILDING HEIGHT                             35 feet
ACCESSORY BUILDING HEIGHT                   15 feet
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE                 85%
Note to Table:
*   All uses located within the Shoreland Overlay District are subject
to the standards in subsection 1004.03
 
§ 1003.16 I-2, General Industrial District.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of the I-2, General Industrial District is
to provide areas suitable for the location of general industrial activities,
including manufacturing and other such activities which, because of the nature
of the product or character of operation, require isolation from or special
protections for non-industrial uses.
   Subd. 2.   Uses. Uses allowed within the district are as described in
subsection
1003.05.
   Subd. 3.   Uses Standards. Uses are subject to the applicable provisions of
the performance standards in Section
1006 and the process requirements in Section
1002.
   Subd. 4.   Lot Area, Height, and Setback Requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the I-2 District subject to additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this chapter.
Table 13
I-2, GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT*
Table 13
I-2, GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT*
Maximum building coverage                   50%
Minimum lot area                            40,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                           100 feet
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE SETBACKS                 
Front                                       Allowed by CUP
Rear                                        10 feet
Side                                        10 feet
PARKING SETBACKS                             
Front                                       10 feet
Rear                                        5 feet
Side                                        5 feet
Structure and parking setback adjacent to R 20 feet
District
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE SETBACKS                 
Front                                       40 feet
Railroad right-of-way                       10 feet
Rear                                        30 feet
Side                                        20 feet
Wetland setback and buffer                  30 feet
BUILDING HEIGHT                             35 feet
ACCESSORY BUILDING HEIGHT                   17 feet
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE                 85%
Note to Table:
*   All uses located within the Shoreland Overlay District are subject
to the standards in subsection 1004.03
 
§ 1003.17 I-3, Innovative Industrial District.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of the I-3, Innovation Industrial District
is to provide an affordable industrial space in the community for start-up
businesses, home occupations that have outgrown their space, and other small
businesses that are at a stage where they cannot yet afford a building
constructed with first class materials.
   Subd. 2.   Uses. Uses allowed within the district are as described in
subsection
1003.05.
   Subd. 3.   Uses Standards. Uses are subject to the applicable provisions of
the performance standards in Section
1006 and the process requirements in Section
1002.
   Subd. 4.   Lot Area, Height, and Setback Requirements. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the I-3 District subject to additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this chapter.
Table 14
I-3, INNOVATIVE INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT*
Table 14
I-3, INNOVATIVE INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT*
Maximum building coverage                   50%
Minimum lot area                            20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                           100 feet
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE SETBACKS                 
Front                                       Allowed by CUP
Rear                                        10 feet
Side                                        10 feet
PARKING SETBACKS                             
Front                                       10 feet
Rear                                        5 feet
Side                                        5 feet
Structure and parking setback adjacent to R 20 feet
District
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE SETBACKS                 
Front                                       30 feet
Railroad right-of-way                       10 feet
Rear                                        20 feet
Side                                        15 feet
Wetland setback and buffer                  30 feet
BUILDING HEIGHT                             35 feet
ACCESSORY BUILDING HEIGHT                   17 feet
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE                 85%
Note to Table:
*   All uses located within the Shoreland Overlay District are subject
to the standards in subsection
1004.03
 
§ 1003.18 PUD, Planned Unit Development.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to provide for the
grouping of lots or buildings for development as an integrated, coordinated
unit as opposed to traditional parcel by parcel, piecemeal, or sporadic
approach to development. This subsection is intended to introduce flexibility
of site design and architecture for the conservation of land and open space
through clustering of lots, buildings, and activities, which promote the goals
outlined in the Comprehensive Plan or serve another public purpose. Planned
unit developments are to be characterized by central management, integrated
planning and architecture, joint or common use and maintenance of parking, open
space and other similar facilities, and harmonious selection and efficient
distribution of uses. The PUD process, by allowing flexibility from the strict
provisions of this chapter related to setbacks, heights, lot area, width and
depth, yards, and the like, either by rezoning to a PUD District or when
located in a shoreland management overlay by a conditional use permit, is
intended to encourage one or more of the following:
         1.   Provide a development pattern in harmony with the objectives of
the Comprehensive Plan. The PUD process is not intended only as a means to vary
applicable planning and zoning principles;
         2.   Allow for the mixing of land uses within a development when such
mixing of land uses could not otherwise be accomplished under this chapter;
         3.   Preserve and enhance desirable site characteristics such as
natural topography, wetlands, woodlands, scenic views, natural habitat, and
geologic features and prevent soil erosion;
         4.   Preserve and enhance open spaces to provide contiguous common
open spaces for scenic enjoyment, recreational use, natural habitat protection,
and community identity;
         5.   Provide for flexibility to the strict application of the land use
regulations in this chapter in order to improve site design and operation,
while at the same time incorporating design elements (e.g., construction
materials, landscaping, lighting, and the like) that exceed the city’s
standards to offset the effect of any deviations;
         6.   Promote a more creative and efficient approach to land use within
the city, while at the same time protecting and promoting the health, safety,
comfort, aesthetics, economic viability, and general welfare of the city;
         7.   Encourage innovations in development to the extent that the
growing demands for all styles of economic expansion may be met by greater
variety in type, design, and placement of structures and by the conservation
and more efficient use of land in such developments;
         8.   Promote a desirable and creative environment that might be
prevented through the strict application of zoning and subdivision regulations
of the city;
         9.   Result in an efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks
of utilities and streets thereby lowering development costs and public
investments;
         10.   Ensure the establishment of appropriate transitions between
differing land uses; and/or
         11.   Promote the creative use of the land and related physical
development which allows a phased and orderly transition of varying land uses
in close proximity to each other.
   Subd. 2.   Benefit. The proposed PUD shall accomplish the purposes and the
design criteria set forth herein and shall not simply be for the enhanced
economic gain of the applicant. It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to
demonstrate compliance with this requirement and provide specific written
documentation addressing this matter as part of the PUD zoning application.
Based on this documentation, the city shall determine that some benefit will be
realized by the city if a PUD is permitted.
   Subd. 3.   Concept PUD Plan Procedure. The general processing steps for a
PUD are intended to provide for an orderly development and progressions of the
project with the greatest expenditure of developmental funds being made only
after the city has had ample opportunity for informed decisions as to the
acceptability of the various segments of the whole as the plan affects the
public interest. The process for filing a planned unit development (PUD) is
outlined below.
         1.   Procedure. The concept PUD plan may be submitted and reviewed by
the Planning Commission and by the City Council to obtain nonbinding comments
on its merits before application and formal review of the development stage PUD
plan. A concept PUD plan shall not be considered by the city simultaneously
with the development stage PUD plan.
         2.   Pre-Application Conference. Prior to submitting a general concept
PUD plan, the applicant for the proposed PUD shall arrange for and attend a
conference with city staff. At such conference, the applicant shall be prepared
to generally describe the proposal for a PUD. The primary purpose of the
conference shall be to provide the applicant with an opportunity to gather
information and obtain guidance as to the general suitability of the proposal
for the area for which it is proposed and its conformity to the provisions of
this chapter before incurring substantial expense in the preparation of plans,
surveys, and other data.
         3.   Concept PUD Plan. The applicant may submit a concept PUD plan of
the project to the Zoning Administrator. The concept PUD plan provides an
opportunity for the applicant to submit a plan to the city showing the basic
intent and the general nature of the entire development before incurring
substantial cost. The following elements of the proposed concept PUD plan
represent the immediately significant elements which the city shall review and
provide comments on:
            a.   Overall maximum PUD density range;
            b.   General location of major streets and pedestrian ways;
            c.   General location and extent of public and common open space;
            d.   General location of residential and non-residential land uses
with approximate type and intensities of development;
            e.   Staging and time schedule of development; and
            f.   Other special criteria for development.
         4.   Submittal Requirements. The following information shall be
required to process a concept PUD plan: all information as required by the
city’s concept PUD plan handout.
         5.   Concept PUD Plan Process. The review of concept PUD plans shall
follow the procedure in subsection
1104.03.
   Subd. 4.   Development Stage PUD Plan. Each PUD shall require development
stage PUD plan and final plan PUD approval. Information from the concept PUD
plan may be included for background and to provide a basis for the submitted
plan. The Planning Commission will base its recommendations to the City Council
concerning approval of the development stage PUD plan based upon consistency of
the development stage PUD plan and preliminary plat to the PUD criteria and
feedback received on the concept PUD plan. The development stage plan will also
serve as the basis upon which the final stage PUD plan (implementation of the
PUD) will be evaluated.
         1.   Procedure. The first step in the development stage PUD shall be
the application to a rezoning to a PUD, Planned Unit Development District,
except in the Shoreland Overlay District shall be by conditional use permit.
         2.   Simultaneous Submission. The Zoning Administrator may authorize
the applicant to simultaneously submit the rezoning, development stage PUD, and
final plan PUD.
         3.   Development Stage PUD Plan Application Requirements. The
applicant shall file with the Zoning Administrator a development stage PUD
plan. The development stage PUD plan submittals shall include, but not be
limited to: all information as required by the city’s development stage PUD
plan handout.
         4.   Development Stage PUD Plan Review Process.
            a.   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and
provide copies for the review of city staff, consultants, and all other
agencies responsible for review of the application.
            b.   The Planning Commission shall review the development stage PUD
plan to consider the conformity of the plan to the Comprehensive Plan, with
respect to the merit or lack of merit of any departure of the development stage
plan from substantial conformity with the concept PUD plan and with respect to
the compliance of the development stage pud plan with the provisions of this
chapter and all other applicable federal, state, and local codes.
            c.   With the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the City
Council may grant approval, return the plan to the Planning Commission for
further consideration of specified items, or deny the development stage PUD
plan setting forth its findings of fact and conditions in the form of a
resolution.
            d.   The applicant shall incorporate all required conditions of
approval into a plan set and narrative and shall submit copies of said
development stage PUD plan and preliminary plat to the city to serve as the
official review document for future phases of the PUD.
         5.   Development Stage PUD Plan Review Criteria. The evaluation of the
proposed development stage plan shall include, but not be limited to, the
following criteria.
            a.   Individual Rights. Adequate property control is provided to
protect the individual owner’s rights and property values and the public
responsibility for maintenance and upkeep.
            b.   Transportation Plan. The interior circulation plan plus access
from and onto public rights-of-way does not create congestion or dangers and is
adequate for the safety of the project residents and the general public.
            c.   Open Space. A sufficient amount of useable open space is
provided.
            d.   Privacy and Property Values. The arrangement of buildings,
structures, and accessory uses does not unreasonably disturb the privacy or
property values of the surrounding residential uses.
            e.   Compatibility. The architectural design of the project is
compatible with the surrounding area.
            f.   Drainage. The drainage and utility system plans are submitted
to the City Engineer, and the final drainage and utility plans shall be subject
to their approval.
            g.   Sound Development. The development schedule ensures a logical
development of the site which will protect the public interest and conserve
land.
            h.   Subdivision Ordinance. The development is in compliance with
the requirements of the city subdivision ordinance.
            i.   District Requirements. Dwelling unit and accessory use
requirements are in compliance with the district provisions in which the
development is planned.
         6.   Limitation on Development Stage PUD Plan Approval.
            a.   Unless a final plan PUD covering the area designated in the
development stage PUD plan as the first stage of the PUD has been filed within
one year from the date that the City Council grants development stage PUD plan
approval, or in any case where the applicant fails to file a final plan PUD and
to proceed with development in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and/or an approved development stage PUD plan, the approval shall expire.
            b.   The City Council may, at its discretion, extend the filing
deadline for any final plan PUD when, for good cause shown, such extension is
necessary. In any case where development stage PUD plan approval expires, the
City Council may adopt a resolution repealing the development stage PUD plan
approval for that portion of the PUD that has not received final plan PUD
approval and re-establish the zoning and other ordinance provisions that would
otherwise be applicable.
   Subd. 5.   Final Plan PUD. The applicant shall file with the Zoning
Administrator a final plan PUD. The final plan PUD is intended only to add
detail to, and to put in final form, the information contained in the concept
PUD plan and the development stage PUD plan, and shall conform to the
development stage PUD Plan in all respects. The final plan PUD shall serve as a
complete and permanent public record of the PUD and the manner in which it is
to be developed. It shall incorporate all prior approved plans and all approved
modifications thereof resulting from the PUD process. It shall serve in
conjunction with other provisions of the City Code as the land use regulation
applicable to the PUD.
         1.   Final Plan Submittal Requirements. The application submittals
should depict and outline the proposed implementation of all or prescribed
phases of the development stage PUD plan for the PUD. The final plan submittals
shall include, but not be limited to: all information as required by the city’s
final PUD plan handout.
         2.   Final Plan PUD Review Process.
            a.   The Zoning Administrator shall review the final plan PUD to
consider the conformity of the plan with the development stage PUD plan and
preliminary plat. The Zoning Administrator shall forward a recommendation to
the City Council to approve, deny, or conditionally approve the final plan PUD.
            b.   The final action of the City Council to approve, deny, or
conditionally approve the final plan shall be in the form of a resolution
setting forth facts and findings and conditions of approval.
            c.   Denial of the final plan PUD shall be accompanied by written
findings of fact of the City Council including supporting data setting forth
the reasons for the denial in terms of the ways the proposed use fails to meet
the standards and intent of the Comprehensive Plan, is not consistent with the
approved development stage PUD plan, and/or is otherwise injurious to the
public health, safety, and welfare.
            d.   Whenever an application for a final plan PUD has been
considered and denied by the City Council, a similar application for PUD
affecting substantially the same property shall not be considered again by the
Planning Commission or City Council for at least one year from the date of its
denial.
            e.   A rezoning of a parcel of land to PUD shall not become
effective until such time as the City Council approves an ordinance reflecting
said amendment, which shall take place at the time the City Council approves
the final plan PUD and final plat. Upon approval of the final plan PUD and
final plat, all ordinances for rezoning shall be published to implement the PUD
zone.
            f.   If in a Shoreland District, the CUP/PUD resolution and final
plat findings of fact shall also be filed with the State Department of Natural
Resources within ten days of city approval. Proof of recording with the county
shall be provided prior to the issuance of building permits to the site.
            g.   The terms of the PUD as approved by the City Council shall be
embodied in a PUD agreement/development contract and such other documents as
the city shall deem necessary or desirable.
            h.   Within 90 days of its approval, the final plan, PUD agreement/
development agreements, and all other pertinent documents shall be recorded
with the County Recorder or Registrar of Deeds. Failure to record said final
plan within 90 days of approval shall render the PUD null and void.
         3.   Limitation on Final Plan PUD Approval. Within one year after the
approval of a final plan PUD, or such shorter time as may be established by the
approved development schedule, construction shall commence in accordance with
such approved plan. Failure to commence construction within such period shall,
unless an extension granted by the City Council as hereinafter provided, shall
automatically render void the PUD. All approvals of the PUD plan and the area
encompassed within the PUD shall thereafter be subject to those provisions of
the zoning ordinance and other Code provisions applicable in the district in
which it is located. In such case, the City Council shall adopt a resolution
and ordinance repealing the PUD and PUD approvals and re-establish the zoning
and other provisions that would otherwise be applicable to the site.
   Subd. 6.   PUD General Requirements.
         1.   Application. All permitted, accessory, conditional, or interim
uses and uses by administrative permit contained in subsections 1003.05 through
1003.17 of this chapter which are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan shall
be treated as potentially allowable uses within a PUD District.
         2.   Comprehensive Plan Consistency. The proposed PUD shall be
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
         3.   Common Open Space. Common open space at least sufficient to meet
the minimum requirements established by this chapter and such complementary
structures and improvements as are necessary and appropriate for the benefit
and enjoyment of the residents of the PUD shall be provided within the area of
the PUD.
         4.   Reductions. Reductions of the underlying zoning district
regulations may be approved by the City Council as part of the overall approval
of the PUD if the following conditions are satisfied.
            a.   The reductions bear a demonstrable relationship to, and are
consistent with, the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan.
            b.   The reductions result in eliminating the adverse impact and
effect of such uses by utilizing screening, landscaping, superior site and
building design, and other features related to planning, design, and
construction.
            c.   Any reduction of ordinance requirements approved as part of a
PUD shall be approved only upon a showing that the reduction does not adversely
affect the surrounding properties because the PUD plan has provided screening,
buffering, fencing, walls, or other site improvements which have eliminated the
adverse effects of the reduction. Such reductions shall be approved as part of
the overall PUD approval, and any reduction granted shall be written into the
PUD development agreement.
   Subd. 7.   Density Bonus. As a benefit of a PUD’s planned and integrated
character, the number of dwelling units allowed within the respective base
zoning district may be increased based upon a finding by the City Council that
such an increase is consistent with the goals of the Comprehensive Plan and
that the PUD provides for the stated objectives of this subsection. The
building, parking, and similar requires for these extra units shall be observed
in compliance with this chapter.
   Subd. 8.   Major and Minor Changes to an Approved Development Stage PUD
Plan.
         1.   A proposed minor change to an approved development stage PUD plan
shall require a public hearing and shall be incorporated into the application
for final PUD plan approval, and any notification regarding such final plan PUD
approval shall describe the proposed minor change(s). A “minor change” means
any departure from the conditions of development stage PUD plan approval which
is not a “major change” and includes, but is not limited to, the following:
            a.   Revisions to number of dwelling units in a structure;
            b.   Revisions to number of non-residential structures;
            c.   Revisions to heights of structures;
            d.   Revisions to location of internal roads; and
            e.   Revisions similar in nature to those above as determined by
the city.
         2.   A proposed major change to an approved development stage PUD plan
shall require reapplication for development stage PUD plan approval and any
notification regarding such development stage PUD plan approval shall describe
the proposed major change or changes. A major change is any departure from the
conditions of development stage PUD plan approval which would result in any of
the following:
            a.   Revisions to the approved design concept;
            b.   Revisions to the approved use(s);
            c.   An increase in the number of residential dwelling units;
            d.   An increase in the square footage of non-residential
structures;
            e.   A decrease in the amount of landscaping, site perimeter
buffering, and open space; and
            f.   An increase in traffic volumes or change in circulation
patterns which impacts surrounding development.
   Subd. 9.   Major and Minor Changes to an Approved Final Plan PUD.
         1.   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to allow adjustments in
accordance with item 2 below. The Zoning Administrator shall allow only such
adjustments as are consistent with guidelines established in item 2 below, and
in no case shall an adjustment be allowed if it will increase the total amount
of floor space authorized in the approved final plan PUD, or the number of
dwelling units or density, or decrease the amount of parking or loading
facilities or permit buildings to locate substantially closer to any boundary
line or change substantially any point of ingress or egress to the site.
         2.   For the purposes of this subsection, “adjustments” means any
departure from the conditions of final plan PUD approval which complies with
the following criteria:
            a.   The adjustment maintains the design intent and quality of the
original approval;
            b.   The amount of landscaping, buffering, and open space shall not
be reduced;
            c.   The number of dwelling units in residential developments and
the square footage of structures shall not increase;
            d.   The density of the development shall not change;
            e.   The adjustment shall not relocate a building, street, or other
use more than 20 feet in any direction and shall not reduce any required yard
and/or setback;
            f.   The height of buildings and other structures shall not
increase;
            g.   Views from both structures on-site and off-site shall not be
substantially reduced;
            h.   Traffic volumes shall not increase and circulation patterns
shall not change;
            i.   Changes in color, plant material, and parking lot
configurations are minor;
            j.   The adjustment does not add significant new environmental
impacts or significantly increase environmental impacts disclosed in the
original documents; and
            k.   The Zoning Administrator determines that the change will not
increase any adverse impacts or undesirable effects of the project or that the
change in no way significantly alters the project.
   Subd. 10.   Records. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all
PUDs approved by the city, including information on a project’s allowed uses,
all pertinent project plans, any conditions imposed on a project by the City
Council, and such other information as the Zoning Administrator may deem
appropriate.
Table 15
PUD Name Resolution/Ordinance Date of Approval
Table 15
PUD Name                    Resolution/Ordinance         Date of Approval
Berndt Ponds Estates Third  Res. No. 2006-26             2-22-2006
Big Lake Car Condos         Res. No. 2019-94 \ Ord. No.  12-11-2019
                            2019-17
Big Lake Car Condos Second  Res. No. 2021-20             3-24-2021
Addition
Big Lake Center             Res. No. 2006-65             5-10-2006
Big Lake Lumber             Res. No. 2003-19 \ Ord. No.  2-19-2003
                            2003-02
Big Lake Marketplace        Res. No. 2006-36             3-8-2006
Professional Center
Big Lake Marketplace Third  Ord. No. 2019-17             12-11-2019
Addition
Big Lake Station Senior     Res. No. 2022-82             10-26-2022
Big Lake Townhomes          Res. No. 2011-12             1-26-2011
Big Lake Townhomes Second   Ord. No. 2019-10             6-12-2019
Addition
Big Lake Townhomes Third    Res. No. 2019-41             6-12-2019
Addition
Big Lake Town Square        Res. No. 2006-49             4-12-2006
                            Res. No. 2004-116            10-13-2004
Big Lake Wastewater         Res. No. 2020-40 \ Ord. No.  4-22-2020
Treatment Facility          2020-10
Cherrywood of Big Lake      Res. No. 2011-52             7-13-2011
Commerce Park               Res. No. 2008-86             9-24-2008
The Crossing Phase 2        Res. No. 2018-115 \ Ord. No. 12-12-2018 \ 6-12-2019
                            2019-10
Habitat First Addition      Res. No. 2001-37             5-23-2001
Harrisons Cove              Res. No. 2004-76             6-23-2004
Lake Shopping Center Second Res. No. 2006-130            11-8-2006
Addition
Lake Street Cottages        Res. No. 2002-34             7-10-2002
Lake Street Cottages Second Res. No. 2006-08             1-11-2006
Addition
Marketplace Crossing        Res. No. 2022-38 \ Ord. No.  4-27-2022
                            2022-06
McDowall Oaks Fourth        Res. No. 2001-67             10-10-2001
Addition
The Meadows of Big Lake     Res. No. 2003-61             7-23-2003
Mitch K. Farms              Res. No. 2003-59             7-23-2003
Norland Park                Res. No. 2016-24             3-23-2016
Norland Park Fifth Addition Res. No. 2018-38             5-9-2018
Northstar Commuter Rail     Res. No. 2007-52             5-23-2007
Project
                            Res. No. 2011-94 \ Ord. No.  12-14-2011
Northern Star Apartments    2011-08
                            Res. No. 2016-80             9-28-2016
Oak Glen                    Res. No. 2006-29             2-22-2006
Options, Inc.               Res. No. 2016-97             11-9-2016
Prairie Meadows             Res. No. 2003-39             6-11-2003
Prairie Meadows Second      Res. No. 2007-119            11-24-2007
Addition
Prairie Meadows Third       Res. No. 2022-36 \ Ord. No.  4-27-2022
Addition                    2022-05
Prairie Rose                Res. No. 2022-61             7-27-2022
Sandhill Villas             Res. No. 2020-48 \ Ord. No.  5-27-2020
                            2020-12
School View Square          Res. No. 2009-49             6-10-2009
Station Street Apartments   Res. No. 2020-15 \ Ord. No.  2-26-2020
                            2020-03
Sweetwater Bend             Res. No. 2005-118            8-10-2005
Wrights Crossing Third      Res. No. 2003-123            12-10-2003
Addition                    Res. No. 2019-47             7-24-2019
                            Res. No. 2021-10             1-27-2021
 
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 6-14-2023)
SECTION 1004: OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 1004.01 Downtown Design Overlay District.
   Subd. 1.   Scope. The city does herewith include and adopt the revised 2019
Downtown Design Standards and boundary map to coordinate themes for site
design, architecture, parking lot design, pedestrian/bicycle access,
environment, and utilities for all properties in the city within the DD,
Downtown Design Overlay District. The DD, Downtown Design Overlay District
shall be enforced for all new construction and/or reconstruction and
remodeling, excluding all single-family uses, as specified under the scope and
application section of the Downtown Design Standards.
   Subd. 2.   Downtown Design Standards Manual. The specific Downtown Design
Standards shall be set forth within a manual available for distribution at the
city offices, which manual and provisions therefor may be amended by ordinance
of the City Council from time to time.
   Subd. 3.   Conflict with Other Provisions. In the application of this
subsection, should the provisions contained within the Downtown Design
Standards be in conflict with other provisions set forth within the text of the
Zoning Code, the Downtown Design Standards shall apply.
§ 1004.02 Floodplain Overlay District.
   Subd. 1.   Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, and Purpose.
         1.   The legislature of the state has, in M.S. Chapters 103F and 462,
as they may be amended from time to time, delegated the responsibility to local
government units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the city does ordain as follows.
         2.   Findings of Fact.
            a.   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in potential loss of life, loss of property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures or flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
            b.   This section is based upon a reasonable method of analyzing
flood hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the State
Department of Natural Resources.
         3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this subsection to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize those
losses described in item 2.a above by provisions contained herein.
   Subd. 2.   General Provisions.
         1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies. This section shall apply to all
lands within the jurisdiction of the city shown on the official flood insurance
rate map dated November 16, 2011 and/or the attachments thereto as being
located within the boundaries of the Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts.
         2.   Establishment of Official Floodplain Map. The official floodplain
map, together with all materials attached hereto, is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this subsection. The attached material
shall include the Flood Insurance Study for Sherburne County, Minnesota and
Incorporated Areas, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
dated November 16, 2011, and the Flood Insurance Rate Map panels therein dated
November 16, 2011 and numbered Community Number 270663, Panel Numbers
27141C0245F, 27141C0335F, 27141C0345F, 27141C0355F, 27141C0360F, and
27141C0365F. The official floodplain map shall be on file in the office of the
City Clerk and the Zoning Administrator.
         3.   Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation. The regulatory flood
protection elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot above the
elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
         4.   Interpretation.
            a.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of
this subsection shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the city and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal
of any other powers granted by state statutes.
            b.   The boundaries of the Floodplain Districts shall be determined
by scaling distances on the official floodplain map. Where interpretation is
needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the district as shown on
the official floodplain map, as, for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions and there is a
formal appeal of the decision of the Zoning Administrator, the Board of
Adjustment shall make the necessary interpretation. All decisions will be based
on elevations on the regional (100-year) flood profile, the ground elevations
that existed on the site at the time the city adopted its initial floodplain
ordinance or on the date of the first National Flood Insurance Program map
showing the area within the 100-year floodplain if earlier, and other available
technical data. Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Board and
to submit technical evidence.
         5.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this
section to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this section imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this subsection shall prevail. All other ordinances
inconsistent with this section are hereby repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency only.
         6.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. This section does not imply
that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This section shall not
create liability on the part of the city or an officer or employee thereof for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this section or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
         7.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of
this subsection is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this subsection shall not be affected thereby.
         8.   Annexations. The flood insurance rate map panels adopted by
reference into this subdivision may include floodplain areas that lie outside
of the corporate boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this
subsection. If any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the city
after the date of adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived,
the newly annexed floodplain lands shall be subject to the provisions of this
subsection immediately upon the date of annexation into the city.
   Subd. 3.   Establishment of Floodplain Zoning Districts.
         1.   Floodplain Zoning Districts.
            a.   Floodway District (FW). The Floodway District shall include
those areas designated as floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in
Subd. 2 above.
            b.   Flood Fringe District (FF). The Flood Fringe District shall
include those areas designated as floodway fringe. The Flood Fringe shall
constitute those areas shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map as adopted in
Subd. 2 above as being within Zone AE but being located outside of the
floodway.
         2.   Compliance. No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and
no structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of
this chapter. Within the Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts, all uses not
listed as permitted uses or conditional uses in subsection 1004.03, Subd. 1 and
3; Subd. 1 and 3 of this subsection, that follow, respectively, shall be
prohibited. In addition, a caution is provided here that:
            a.   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes, and
certain recreational vehicles are subject to the general provisions of this
chapter and specifically this subsection;
            b.   Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal
maintenance and repair or repair after damage to existing non-conforming
structures, and non-conforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the
general provisions of this chapter and specifically subsection 1005.11; and
            c.   As-built elevations for elevated or flood proofed structures
must be certified by ground surveys, and flood proofing techniques must be
designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as
specified in the general provisions of this chapter and specifically as stated
in subsection 1004.02.
   Subd. 4.   (FW) Floodway District.
         1.   Permitted Uses.
            a.   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting;
            b.   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas, and
airport landing strips;
            c.   Private and public golf courses, tennis courts, driving
ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming areas,
parks, wildlife and nature preserves, fish hatcheries, firearm ranges, hunting
and fishing areas, and single or multiple purpose recreational trails; and
            d.   Residential lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas.
         2.   Standards for Floodway Permitted Uses.
            a.   The use shall have a low flood damage potential.
            b.   The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district
if one exists.
            c.   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood
elevations and shall not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations,
or storage of materials or equipment.
         3.   Conditional Uses.
            a.   Structures accessory to the uses listed in subsection 1004.02,
Subd. 4(1), above and the uses listed in subsection 1004.02 Subd. 4(3)b-
h below;
            b.   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel, and other materials;
            c.   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves, and water
control structures;
            d.   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines, and
pipelines;
            e.   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials;
            f.   Placement of fill or construction of fences;
            g.   Recreational vehicles either on individual lots of record or
in existing or new subdivisions or commercial or condominium type campgrounds,
subject to the exemptions and provisions of Subd. 3 above; and
            h.   Structural works for flood control such as levees, dikes, and
flood walls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures and levees or dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural
crops for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency
flood event.
         4.   Standards for Floodway Conditional Uses.
            a.   Permissible. The conditional use shall be permissible in the
underlying zoning district if one exists.
            b.   All uses. No structure (temporary or permanent), fill
(including fill for roads and levees), deposit, obstruction, storage of
materials or equipment, or other uses may be allowed as a conditional use that
will cause any increase in the stage of the 100-year or regional flood or cause
an increase in flood damages in the reach or reaches affected.
            c.   Compliance. All floodway conditional uses shall be subject to
the procedures and standards contained in this subdivision.
            d.   Fill.
               i.   Fill, dredge spoil, and all other similar materials
deposited or stored in the floodplain shall be protected from erosion by
vegetative cover, mulching, rip rap, or other acceptable method.
               ii.   Dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel operations shall
not be allowed in the floodway unless a long-term site development plan is
submitted which includes an erosion/sedimentation prevention element to the
plan.
               iii.   As an alternative, and consistent with Item 4.b above,
dredge spoil disposal and sand and gravel operations may allow temporary, on-
site storage of fill or other materials which would have caused an increase to
the stage of the 100-year or regional flood but only after the city has
received an appropriate plan which assures the removal of the materials from
the floodway based upon the flood warning time available. The conditional use
permit must be title registered with the property in the office of the County
Recorder.
            e.   Accessory Structures.
               i.   Accessory structures shall not be designed for human
habitation.
               ii.   Accessory structures, if permitted, shall be constructed
and placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the
flow of flood waters:
                  (a)   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with
the longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow; and
                  (b)   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed
approximately on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
               iii.   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or
structurally dry flood proofed in accordance with the FP 1 or FP 2 flood
proofing classifications in the State Building Code. As an alternative, an
accessory structure may be flood proofed to the FP 3 or FP 4 flood proofing
classification in the State Building Code; provided the accessory structure
constitutes a minimal investment, does not exceed 500 square feet in size at
its largest projection, and for a detached garage, the detached garage must be
used solely for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All flood proofed
accessory structures must meet the following additional standards.
                  (a)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed
to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
                  (b)   Any mechanical and utility equipment in a structure
must be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or
properly flood proofed.
                  (c)   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure,
there must be a minimum of two “automatic” openings in the outside walls of the
structure having a total net are of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. There must be openings on at
least two sides of the structure, and the bottom of all openings must be no
higher than one foot above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using
human intervention to open a garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy
this requirement for automatic openings.
            f.   Storage of Materials and Equipment.
               i.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
               ii.   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the city.
            g.   Structural Works. Structural works for flood control that will
change the course, current or cross section of protected wetlands or public
waters shall be subject to the provisions of M.S. Chapter 103G, as it may be
amended from time to time. Community wide structural works for flood control
intended to remove areas from the regulatory floodplain shall not be allowed in
the floodway.
            h.   No Increase. A levee, dike, or floodwall constructed in the
floodway shall not cause an increase to the 100-year or regional flood and the
technical analysis must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides
of a stream.
   Subd. 5.   (FF) Flood Fringe District.
         1.   Permitted Uses. Permitted Uses shall be those uses of land or
structures listed as permitted uses in the underlying zoning use district(s).
If no pre-existing, underlying zoning use districts exist, then any residential
or non-residential structure or use of a structure or land shall be a permitted
use in the Flood Fringe District; provided such use does not constitute a
public nuisance. All permitted uses shall comply with the standards for Flood
Fringe “Permitted Uses” listed in Subd. 2 above and “Standards for all Flood
Fringe Uses” listed in this subdivision.
         2.   Standards for Flood Fringe Permitted Uses.
            a.   All structures, including accessory structures, must be
elevated on fill so that the lowest floor including basement floor is at or
above the regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation
for structures shall be no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend at such elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure erected thereon.
            b.   As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures
that constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed 500 square feet at
its largest projection may be internally flood proofed in accordance with Subd.
4.5.c above.
            c.   The cumulative placement of fill where at any one time in
excess of 1,000 cubic yards of fill is located on the parcel shall be allowable
only as a conditional use, unless said fill is specifically intended to elevate
a structure in accordance with Subd. 2.1 above.
            d.   The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on
fill to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
            e.   The provisions of this subdivision shall apply.
         3.   Conditional Uses. Any structure that is not elevated on fill or
flood proofed in accordance with Subd. 2.1 and 2.2 above, or any use of land
that does not comply with the standards in Subd. 2.3 and 2.4 above shall only
be allowable as a conditional use. An application for a conditional use shall
be subject to the standards and criteria and evaluation procedures specified in
Subd. 4 and 5 above, this subdivision, and subsection 1004.08.
         4.   Standards for Flood Fringe Conditional Uses.
            a.   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may
be utilized to elevate a structure’s lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of stilts,
pilings, parallel walls, and the like, or above grade, enclosed areas such as
crawl spaces or tuck under garages. The base or floor of an enclosed area shall
be considered above grade and not a structure’s basement or lowest floor if:
               i.   The enclosed area is above grade on at least one side of
the structure;
               ii.   It is designed to internally flood and is constructed with
flood-resistant materials; and
               iii.   It is used solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage. The above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject
to the following additional standards.
                  (a)   Design and Certification. The structure’s design and as
built condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect as being in compliance with the general design standards of the State
Building Code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be
at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or be designed to prevent
flood water from entering or accumulating within these components during times
of flooding.
                  (b)   Specific Standards for Above Grade, Enclosed Areas.
Above grade, fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages
must be designed to internally flood, and the design plans must stipulate:
                     (i)   A minimum area of “automatic” openings in the walls
where internal flooding is to be used as a flood proofing technique. There
shall be a minimum of two openings on at least two sides of the structure, and
the bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade. The
automatic openings shall have a minimum net area of not less than one square
inch for every square foot subject to flooding unless a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The
automatic openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters without any form of human intervention; and
                     (ii)   The enclosed area will be designed of flood
resistant materials in accordance with the FP 3 or FP 4 classifications in the
State Building Code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of
vehicles, or storage.
            b.   Basements, as defined by subsection 1001, shall be subject to
the following:
               i.   Residential basement construction shall not be allowed
below the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
               ii.   Non-residential basements may be allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation, provided the basement is structurally
dry flood proofed in accordance with Subd. 4 above.
            c.   All areas of non-residential structures including basements to
be placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be flood
proofed in accordance with the structurally dry flood proofing classifications
in the State Building Code. Structurally dry flood proofing must meet the FP 1
or FP 2 flood proofing classification in the State Building Code, and this
shall require making the structure watertight with the walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of
buoyancy. Structures flood proofed to the FP 3 or FP 4 classification shall not
be permitted.
            d.   When, at any one time, more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or
other similar material is located on a parcel for such activities as on-site
storage, landscaping, sand and gravel operations, landfills, roads, dredge
spoil disposal, or construction of flood control works, an erosion/
sedimentation control plan must be submitted unless the community is enforcing
a state approved shoreland management ordinance. In the absence of a state
approved shoreland ordinance, the plan must clearly specify methods to be used
to stabilize the fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the 100-year or
regional flood event. The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the city. The
plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal of the material from
the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
            e.   Storage of materials and equipment:
               i.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited; and
               ii.   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the city.
            f.   The provisions of this subdivision shall also apply.
         5.   Standards for All Flood Fringe Uses.
            a.   Vehicular Access. All new principal structures must have
vehicular access at or above an elevation not more than two feet below the
regulatory flood protection elevation. If a variance to this requirement is
granted, the Board of Adjustment must specify limitations on the period of use
or occupancy of the structure for times of flooding and only after determining
that adequate flood warning time and local flood emergency response procedures
exist.
            b.   Commercial Uses. Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad
tracks, and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. However, a permit for such facilities to be used by the
employees or the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood
warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth and velocity such that, when multiplying the depth (in
feet) times velocity (in feet per second), the product number exceeds four upon
occurrence of the regional flood.
            c.   Manufacturing and Industrial Uses. Measures shall be taken to
minimize interference with normal plant operations especially along streams
having protracted flood durations. Certain accessory land uses such as yards
and parking lots may be at lower elevations subject to requirements set out in
Subd. 5.2 above. In considering permit applications, due consideration shall be
given to needs of an industry whose business requires that it be located in
floodplain areas.
            d.   Fill. Fill shall be properly compacted, and the slopes shall
be properly protected by the use of rip rap, vegetative cover, or other
acceptable method. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has
established criteria for removing the special flood hazard area designation for
certain structures properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation
FEMA’s requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope
protection standards for multi structure or multi lot developments. These
standards should be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if
a change of special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
            e.   Capacity. Floodplain developments shall not adversely affect
the hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary
watercourse or drainage system where a floodway or other encroachment limit has
not been specified on the official zoning map.
            f.   Recreational Vehicles. Standards for receational vehicles are
contained in Subd. 3 above.
            g.   Manufactured Homes. All manufactured homes must be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation,
collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to
be limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces.
   Subd. 6.   Public Utilities, Railroads, Roads, and Bridges.
         1.   Public Utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as
gas, electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the
floodplain shall be flood proofed in accordance with the State Building Code or
elevated to above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         2.   Public Transportation Facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and
bridges to be located within the floodplain shall comply with Subd. 4 and 5
above. Elevation to the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be provided
where failure or interruption of these transportation facilities would result
in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities are essential
to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or auxiliary roads or railroads
may be constructed at a lower elevation where failure or interruption of
transportation services would not endanger the public health or safety.
         3.   On-Site Sewage Treatment and Water Supply Systems. Where public
utilities are not provided:
            a.   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
            b.   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into flood waters and they shall not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding. Any sewage treatment
system designed in accordance with the state’s current statewide standards for
on-site sewage treatment systems shall be determined to be in compliance with
this subsection.
   Subd. 7.   Manufactured Homes and Manufactured Home Parks and Placement of
Recreational Vehicles.
         1.   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing
manufactured home parks shall be subject to the provisions placed on
subdivisions by Chapter 11, subsection 1107.01, of the Municipal Code.
         2.   The placement of new or replacement manufactured homes in
existing manufactured home parks or on individual lots of record that are
located in floodplain districts will be treated as a new structure and may be
placed only if elevated in compliance with this subsection. If vehicular road
access for pre-existing manufactured home parks is not provided in accordance
with Subd. 5 above, then replacement manufactured homes will not be allowed
until the property owner(s) develops a flood warning emergency plan acceptable
to the city. All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
         3.   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria
specified in item 1 below shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter
and as specifically spelled out in items 3 and 4 below.
            a.   Exemption. Recreational vehicles are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter if they are placed in any of the areas listed in
item 3.b below and further, they meet the following criteria:
               i.   Have current licenses required for highway use;
               ii.   Are highway ready, meaning on wheels or the internal
jacking system, are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks, and the
recreational vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it;
and
               iii.   The recreational vehicle and associated use must be
permissible in any pre-existing, underlying zoning use district.
            b.   Areas Exempted for Placement of Recreational Vehicles.
               i.   Individual lots or parcels of record;
               ii.   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds; and
               iii.   Existing condominium type associations.
            c.   Loss of Exemption. Recreational vehicles exempted in item 1
above lose this exemption when development occurs on the parcel exceeding $500
for a structural addition to the recreational vehicle or exceeding $500 for an
accessory structure such as a garage or storage building. The recreational
vehicle and all additions and accessory structures will then be treated as a
new structure and shall be subject to the elevation/flood proofing requirements
and the use of land restrictions specified in Subd. 4 and 5 above. There shall
be no development or improvement on the parcel or attachment to the
recreational vehicle that hinders the removal of the recreational vehicle to a
flood free location should flooding occur.
            d.   New commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds and
new residential type subdivisions and condominium associations and the
expansion of any existing similar use exceeding five units or dwelling sites
shall be subject to the following.
               i.   Any new or replacement recreational vehicle will be allowed
in the Floodway or Flood Fringe Districts, provided said recreational vehicle
and its contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood protection
elevation and proper elevated road access to the site exists in accordance with
Subd. 5.1 above. No fill placed in the floodway to meet the requirements of
this subsection shall increase flood stages of the 100-year or regional flood.
               ii.   All new or replacement recreational vehicles not meeting
the criteria of item 3.a above may, as an alternative, be allowed as a
conditional use if in accordance with the following provisions and the
provisions of this subsection. The applicant must submit an emergency plan for
the safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during the 100-year flood. Said
plan shall be prepared by a registered engineer or other qualified individual,
shall demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the
evacuation, and shall demonstrate the provisions of Subd. 3.1.a and 3.1.b above
will be met. All attendant sewage and water facilities for new or replacement
travel trailers or other recreational vehicles must be protected or constructed
so as to not be impaired or contaminated during times of flooding in accordance
with this subsection.
   Subd. 8.   Administration.
         1.   Zoning Administrator. A Zoning Administrator or other official
designated by the city shall administer and enforce this chapter. If the Zoning
Administrator finds a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the person responsible for such violation in
accordance with the procedures stated in this subsection.
         2.   Permit Requirements.
            a.   Permit Required. A permit issued by the Building Official in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter shall be secured prior to the
erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance
and repair), or alteration of any building, structure, or portion thereof;
prior to the use or change of use of a building, structure, or land; prior to
the construction of a dam, fence, or on-site septic system; prior to the change
or extension of a nonconforming use; prior to the repair of a structure that
has been damaged by flood, fire, tornado, or any other source; and prior to the
placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage of materials or
equipment within the floodplain.
            b.   Application for Permit. Application for a permit shall be made
in duplicate to the Building Official on forms furnished by the Building
Official and shall include the following where applicable: plans in duplicate
drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the
lot; existing or proposed structures, fill, or storage of materials; and the
location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
            c.   State and Federal Permits. Prior to granting a permit or
processing an application for a conditional use permit or variance, the Zoning
Administrator shall determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary
state and federal permits.
            d.   Certificate of Zoning Compliance for a New, Altered, or Non-
Conforming Use. It shall be unlawful to use, occupy, or permit the use or
occupancy of any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted, altered, or enlarged in its use or structure until
a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning
Administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
            e.   Construction and Use to be as Provided on Applications, Plans,
Permits, Variances, and Certificates of Zoning Compliance. Permits, conditional
use permits, or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
approved plans and applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and
construction set forth in such approved plans and applications, and no other
use, arrangement, or construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at
variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, and
punishable as provided by Subd. 9 below.
            f.   Certification. The applicant shall be required to submit
certification by a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or
registered land surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Flood proofing
measures shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or registered
architect.
            g.   Record of First Floor Elevation. The Zoning Administrator
shall maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new structures and alterations or additions to existing
structures in the floodplain. The Zoning Administrator shall also maintain a
record of the elevation to which structures or alterations and additions to
structures are flood proofed.
            h.   Notifications for Watercourse Alterations. The Zoning
Administrator shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and
the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources prior to the community
authorizing any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has
applied for a permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to M.S.
Chapter 103G, as it may be amended from time to time, this shall suffice as
adequate notice to the Commissioner of Natural Resources. A copy of said
notification shall also be submitted to the Chicago Regional Office of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
            i.   Notification to FEMA When Physical Changes Increase or
Decrease the 100-Year Flood Elevation. As soon as is practicable, but not later
than six months after the date such supporting information becomes available,
the Zoning Administrator shall notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of
the changes by submitting a copy of said technical or scientific data.
§ 1004.03 Shoreland Management Overlay District.
   Subd. 1.   Statutory Authorization and Policy.
         1.   Statutory Authorization. A Shoreland Overlay District shall be
continued pursuant to the authorization and policies contained in M.S. Chapter
103F, Minn. Rules parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900, as they all may be amended
from time to time, and the planning and zoning enabling legislation in M.S.
Chapter 462, as it may be amended from time to time.
         2.   Policy. The uncontrolled use of shorelands of the city affects
the public health, safety, and general welfare not only by contributing to
pollution of public waters, but also by impairing the local tax base.
Therefore, it is in the best interest of public health, safety, and welfare to
provide for the wise subdivision, use, and development of shorelands of public
waters. The legislature of the state has delegated responsibility to local
governments of the state to regulate the subdivision, use, and development of
the shorelands of public waters and thus preserve and enhance the quality of
surface waters, conserve the economic and natural environmental values of
shorelands, and provide for the wise use of waters and related land resources.
This responsibility shall hereby be recognized by the city.
   Subd. 2.   General Provisions.
         1.   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this subsection shall apply to
the shorelands of the public water bodies as classified in this section.
Pursuant to Minn. Rules parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900, as they may be
amended from time to time, no lake, pond, or flowage less than ten acres in
size in municipalities or 25 acres in size in unincorporated areas needs to be
regulated in a local government’s shoreland regulations. A body of water
created by a private user where there was no previous shoreland may, at the
discretion of the City Council, be exempt from this subsection.
         2.   Compliance. The use of any shoreland of public waters; the size
and shape of lots; the use, size, type, and location of structures on lots; the
installation and maintenance of water supply and waste treatment systems, the
grading and filling of any shoreland area; the cutting of shoreland vegetation;
and the subdivision of land shall be in full compliance with the terms of this
subsection and other applicable regulations of this chapter.
         3.   Definitions. Special definitions associated with this shoreland
management section of the zoning ordinance are called out in subsection
1001.02 of this chapter. In case of conflict between these definitions, the
most restrictive shall apply. Unless specifically defined, words or phrases
used in this section shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning
as they have in common usage and so as to give this section its most reasonable
application. All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
horizontally.
   Subd. 3.   Shoreland Classification System and Land Use District
Descriptions.
         1.   Shoreland Classification System. The public waters of the city
have been classified below consistent with the criteria found in Minn. Rules
part 6120.3300, as amended from time to time, and the Protected Waters
Inventory Map for Sherburne County, Minnesota.
            a.   Lakes.
Lake Type DNR ID #
Lake Type                        DNR ID #
General Development Lakes
Big Lake                         71-82
Keller Lake                      71-83
Mitchell Lake                    71-81
Natural Environment Lakes
Beaudry Lake                     71-62
Beulah Pond                      71-101
Landis Lake                      71-99
Preusse Lake                     71-63
Thompson Lake                    71-96
Un-named (Kerber Lake)           71-70
Un-named Wetland                 71-65
Un-named Wetland (McDowall Lake) 71-80
Recreational Development Lakes
Blacks Lake                      71-97
 
            b.   Rivers.
               i.   Agricultural rivers: Elk River.
               ii.   Forested rivers:
                  (a)   Snake River; and
                  (b)   St. Francis River.
         2.   Shoreland Overlay District. The shorelands of the city shall
hereby be designated as shoreland overlay districts. The purpose of the
shoreland overlay district shall be to provide for the wise utilization of
shoreland areas in order to preserve the quality and natural character of these
protected waters of the city. Commercial planned unit developments shall be
prohibited. These districts are shown on the zoning map.
            a.   Permitted or Principal Uses. All permitted uses allowed and
regulated by the applicable zoning district underlying this Shoreland Overlay
District as indicated on the official zoning map of the city.
            b.   Conditional Uses. All conditional uses allowed and regulated
by the applicable zoning district underlying this Shoreland Overlay District as
indicated on the official zoning map of the city.
            c.   Substandard Uses. Any use of shorelands in existence prior to
the date of enactment of this chapter which shall be permitted within the
applicable zoning districts, but do not meet the minimum lot area, setbacks, or
other dimensional requirements of this chapter, shall be substandard uses.
            d.   Prohibited Uses. Any uses which are not permitted or
conditional uses as regulated by the applicable zoning district underlying this
Shoreland Overlay District as indicated on the official zoning map of the city
shall be prohibited.
   Subd. 4.   General Zoning Provisions. The following provisions are required
within Shoreland Districts in addition to the specific provisions of each
underlying zoning district.
Table 16
 Riparian Riparian Non-     Non-     Unsewered Sewered   Sewage                       Maximum
 Lot Area Lot      Riparian Riparian Structure Structure Treatment Bluff   Maximum    Building
 (Sq.     Width    Lot Area Lot      Setback   Setback   System    Setback Impervious Height
 Ft.)     (Ft.)    (Sq.     Width    (Ft.)     (Ft.)     Setback   (Ft.)   Surface    (Ft.)
                 Ft.)     (Ft.)                      (Ft.)                       
                                                        
Table 16
             Riparian Riparian Non-     Non-     Unsewered Sewered   Sewage                       Maximum
             Lot Area Lot      Riparian Riparian Structure Structure Treatment Bluff   Maximum    Building
             (Sq.     Width    Lot Area Lot      Setback   Setback   System    Setback Impervious Height
             Ft.)     (Ft.)    (Sq.     Width    (Ft.)     (Ft.)     Setback   (Ft.)   Surface    (Ft.)
                             Ft.)     (Ft.)                      (Ft.)                       
                                                                    
Agricultural                                                                              
River
Single-      -        150      -        150      100       50        100       30      25%        25
Family
Duplex       -        225      -        225      100       50        100       30      25%        25
Triplex      -        300      -        300      100       50        100       30      25%        25
Quad         -        375      -        375      100       50        100       30      25%        25
Business     -        -        -        -        100       50        100       30      75%        35
Industrial   -        -        -        -        50        50        50        30      50%        35
Forested                                                                                  
River
Single-      -        200      -        200      150       150       150       30      25%        25
Family
Duplex       -        300      -        300      150       150       150       30      25%        25
Triplex      -        400      -        400      150       150       150       30      25%        25
Quad         -        500      -        500      150       150       150       30      25%        25
Business     -        -        -        -        150       150       150       30      75%        35
Industrial   -        -        -        -        150       150       150       30      50%        35
General
Development                                                              
Lakes
Single-      15,000   75       10,000   75       150       50        150       30      25%        25
Family
Duplex       26,000   135      17,500   135      150       50        150       30      25%        25
Triplex      38,000   195      25,000   190      150       50        150       30      25%        25
Quad         49,000   255      32,500   245      150       50        150       30      25%        25
Business     -        -        -        -        150       50        150       30      75%        35
Industrial   -        -        -        -        150       50        150       30      50%        35
Natural
Environment                                                              
Lakes
Single-      40,000   125      20,000   125      150       150       150       30      25%        25
Family
Duplex       70,000   225      35,000   220      150       150       150       30      25%        25
Triplex      100,00 0 325      52,000   315      150       150       150       30      25%        25
Quad         130,00 0 435      65,000   410      150       150       150       30      25%        25
Business     -        -        -        -        150       150       150       30      75%        35
Industrial   -        -        -        -        150       150       150       30      50%        35
Recreational
Development                                                              
Lakes
Single-      20,000   75       15,000   75       150       75        150       30      25%        25
Family
Duplex       35,000   135      26,000   135      150       75        150       30      25%        25
Triplex      50,000   195      38,000   190      150       75        150       30      25%        25
Quad         65,000   255      49,000   245      150       75        150       30      25%        25
Business     -        -        -        -        150       75        150       30      75%        35
Industrial   -        -        -        -        150       75        150       30      50%        35
 
         1.   Impervious Surface Coverage. For uses with a maximum impervious
surface of 25% as identified in Table 16, the impervious surface may be
increased as stated below.
            a.   Paver stone driveways, sidewalks, and patios that receive all
required permits and are properly installed with a sand base and sufficient
spacing to allow for drainage shall count towards 50 % of the area covered for
the purposes of calculating the overall lot coverage.
            b.   The impervious surface coverage may be increased up to 35% of
the total lot area by a conditional use permit as set forth in and regulated by
subsection 1002.08 and the following criteria:
               i.   All structures, additions, or expansions shall meet setback
and other requirements of this chapter;
               ii.   The lot shall be served by municipal sewer and water;
               iii.   The lot shall provide for the collection and treatment of
storm water in compliance with the City Storm Water Management Plan if
determined that the site improvements will result in increased runoff directly
entering a public water. All development plans shall require review and
approval by the City Engineer;
               iv.   Measures to be taken for the treatment of storm water
runoff and/or prevention of storm water from directly entering a public water.
The measures may include, but not be limited to, the following:
                  (a)   Appurtenances as sedimentation basins, debris basins,
desilting basins, or silt traps;
                  (b)   Installation of debris guards and microsilt basins on
storm sewer inlets;
                  (c)   Use where practical, oil skimming devices, or sump
catch basins;
                  (d)   Direct drainage away from the lake and into pervious,
grassed, yards through site grading, use of gutters, and downspouts;
                  (e)   Sidewalks are constructed with partially pervious
raised materials such as decking which has natural or other pervious material
beneath or between the planking;
                  (f)   Grading and construction techniques are used which
encourage rapid infiltration, e.g., sand and gravel, under impervious materials
with adjacent infiltration swales graded to lead into them;
                  (g)   Berms, water bars, or terraces are installed which
temporarily detain water before dispersing it into pervious area; and
                  (h)   Installation of a minimum 15-foot wide buffer from the
OHWL. This buffer would be treated similar to a wetland buffer where native
grasses and the like would be required, and mowing and dumping would not be
permitted.
               v.   All structures and impervious surfaces shall be located on
slopes less than 12%. The physical alteration of slopes shall not be permitted
for the purpose of overcoming this limitation;
               vi.   Site developments shall be designed, implemented, and
maintained using the most applicable combination of comprehensive practices
that prevent flooding, pollutant, erosion, and sedimentation problems
consistent with Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas, Best Management
Practices for Minnesota, State Pollution Control Agency, October 1989, or as
amended, which is incorporated by reference, available at the State Law Library
and not subject to frequent change; and
               vii.   The city may impose additional conditions if determined
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
         2.   Agriculture Use Standards. General cultivation farming, grazing,
nurseries, horticulture, truck farming, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting
if permitted in the underlying zoning district, and provided steep slopes and
shore and bluff impact zones are maintained in permanent vegetation or operated
under an approved conservation plan (Resource Management System) consistent
with the field office technical guides of the local soil and water conservation
districts or the United States Soil Conservation Service, as provided by a
qualified individual or agency. The shore impact zone for parcels with
permitted agricultural land uses shall be equal to a line parallel to and 50
feet from the ordinary high water level.
         3.   Standards for Commercial, Industrial, Public, and Semi-Public
Uses.
            a.   Surface water oriented commercial uses and industrial, public,
or semi-public uses with similar needs to have access to and use of public
waters may be located on parcels or lots with frontage on public waters. Those
uses with water oriented needs must meet the following standards.
               i.   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits,
setbacks, and other zoning standards in this chapter, the use must be designed
to incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas and
structures.
               ii.   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for
patrons must centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions
of navigation and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need.
               iii.   Other outside lighting may be located within the shore
impact zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate
potential safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent
direct illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude use of
navigational lights.
            b.   Uses without water oriented needs must be located on lots or
parcels without public waters frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels with
public waters frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary high
water level setback or be substantially screened from view from the water by
vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf on conditions.
         4.   Significant Historic Sites. No structure shall be placed on a
significant historic site in a manner that affects the value of the site unless
adequate information about the site has been removed and documented in a public
repository.
         5.   Steep Slopes. The Zoning Administrator or designee must evaluate
possible soil erosion impacts and development visibility from public waters
before issuing a permit for construction of sewage treatment systems, roads,
driveways, structures, or other improvements on steep slopes. When determined
necessary, conditions must be attached to issued permits to prevent erosion and
to preserve existing vegetation screening of structures, vehicles, and other
facilities as viewed from the surface of public water, assuming summer, leaf on
vegetation.
         6.   Bluff Impact Zones. Structures and accessory facilities, except
stairways and landings, must not be placed within bluff impact zones.
         7.   Vegetation Alterations.
            a.   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of
structures and sewage treatment systems and the construction of roads and
parking areas regulated by this chapter shall be exempt from the vegetation
alteration standards that follow.
            b.   Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for agricultural
and forest management uses as regulated by this chapter, are subject to the
following standards.
               i.   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and bluff
impact zones and on steep slopes is not allowed. Intensive vegetation clearing
for forest land conversion to another use outside of these areas shall be
allowable as a conditional use if an erosion control and sedimentation plan is
developed and approved by the Soil and Water Conservation District in which the
property is located.
               ii.   In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes,
limited clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning, and trimming of
trees shall be allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal
dwelling site and to accommodate the placement of stairways and landings,
picnic areas, access paths, livestock watering areas, beach and watercraft
access areas, and permitted water oriented accessory structures or facilities,
provided that:
                  (a)   The screening of structures, vehicles, or other
facilities as viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf on conditions are
not substantially reduced;
                  (b)   Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces is
preserved; and
                  (c)   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal
of trees, limbs, or branches that are dead, diseased, or pose safety hazards.
         8.   Placement and Design of Roads, Driveways, and Parking Areas.
            a.   Public and private roads and parking areas must be designed to
take advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve maximum
screening from view from public waters. Documentation must be provided by a
qualified individual that all roads and parking areas shall be designed and
constructed to minimize and control erosion to public waters consistent with
the field office technical guides of the local soil and water conservation
district, or other applicable technical materials.
            b.   Roads, driveways, and parking areas must meet structure
setbacks for Shoreland Districts and must not be placed within bluff and shore
impact zones, when other reasonable and feasible placement alternatives exist.
If no alternatives exist, they may be placed within these areas, and must be
designed to minimize adverse impacts.
            c.   Public and private watercraft access ramps, approach roads,
and access related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones,
provided the vegetative screening and erosion control conditions of this
subsection are met. For private facilities, the grading and filling provisions
of subsection 1005.05 shall be complied with. Private watercraft access ramps
shall not be permitted on any lake where a public watercraft access ramp is
already available.
   Subd. 5.   Controlled Access Lots. Lots intended as controlled accesses to
public waters or as recreation areas for use by owner of non-riparian lots
within subdivisions are permissible and must meet or exceed the following
standards.
         1.   They must meet the width and size requirements for residential
lots within Shoreland Districts and be suitable for the intended uses of
controlled access lots.
         2.   If docking, mooring, or over water storage of more than six
watercraft is to be allowed at a controlled access lot, then the width of the
lot (keeping the same lot depth) must be increased by the percentage of the
requirements for riparian residential lots for each watercraft beyond six,
consistent with the following table.
 
Table 17
Ratio of Lake Size to Shore Length (acres/miles) Required Increase in Frontage
Less than 100                                    25%
100 - 200                                        20%
201 - 300                                        15%
301 - 400                                        10%
Greater than 400                                 5%
 
   Subd. 6.   Storm Water Management. In addition to the provisions of
subsection 1005.05 and other applicable provisions of this chapter, the
following general and specific standards shall apply.
         1.   When possible, existing natural drainage ways, wetlands, and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter, and retain storm
water runoff before discharge to public waters.
         2.   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that shall
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential,
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible, and facilities or methods used to retain
sediment on the site.
         3.   When development density, topographic features, and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle storm water
runoff using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed
facilities such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes,
waterways, and ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using
surface drainage, vegetation, and infiltration rather than buried pipes and
human-made materials and facilities.
         4.   For lots of record developed after May 25, 2016, a buffer strip
of and average of 50 feet, but no less than 30 feet, shall be maintained
abutting all shoreland. The buffer provisions of this chapter shall apply to
lots developed or redeveloped on or after May 25, 2016. The city does, however,
strongly encourage the use of a buffer on all lots in the city.
         5.   Buffer strips shall apply to all parcels of land, whether or not
the shoreland is on the same parcel as a proposed development.
            a.   Any existing drain tile shall be modified as part of the
project to eliminate short circuiting of the buffer strip.
            b.   New or enhanced buffer strips shall be maintained by the
applicant for the later of one-year after completion of the project or
acceptance by the City Engineer.
         6.   Buffer strip vegetation shall be established and maintained in
accordance with the requirements found in subsection 1004.04. During the first
two years, any buffer vegetation that does not survive must be replanted. After
two years, if the condition of the buffer area changes through natural
processes not caused by the property owner, the owner shall not be required to
re-establish the buffer area to meet the standards contained in subsection
1004.04. Buffer strips shall be identified within each lot by permanent
monuments approved by the city.
   Subd. 7.   Water Supply and Sewage Treatment.
         1.   Water Supply. Any public or private supply of water for domestic
purposes must meet or exceed standards for water quality of the State
Department of Health and the State Pollution Control Agency.
         2.   Sewage Treatment. Any premises used for human occupancy must be
provided with an adequate method of sewage treatment as follows.
            a.   Publicly owned sewer systems must be used where available.
            b.   All private sewage treatment systems must meet or exceed the
State Pollution Control Agency’s standard for individual sewage treatment
systems contained the regulations titled “Individual Subsurface Sewage
Treatment Systems Standards, Minn. Rules Chapter 7080,” a copy of which shall
hereby be adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this subsection.
            c.   On-site sewage treatment systems must be set back at least 150
feet from the ordinary high water level of all public waters.
            d.   All proposed sites for individual sewage treatment systems
shall be evaluated in accordance with the criteria listed below. If the
determination of a site’s suitability cannot be made with publicly available
existing information, it shall then be the responsibility of the applicant to
provide sufficient soil borings and percolation tests from on site field
investigations. The evaluation criteria is as follows:
               i.   Depth to the highest known or calculated ground water table
or bedrock;
               ii.   Soil conditions, properties, and permeability;
               iii.   Slope; and
               iv.   The existence of lowlands, local surface depressions, and
rock outcrops.
   Subd. 8.   Shoreland Management Residential PUD Requirements.
         1.   Applicability. Residential planned unit developments (PUDs) are
allowed for new projects on undeveloped land, redevelopment of previously built
sites, or conversion of existing buildings and lands. The zoning districts in
which they are an allowable use are identified in subsections 1003.05 through
1003.11 of this chapter and the official city zoning map.
         2.   Processing. Residential planned unit developments within a
Shoreland District shall be processed as a conditional use, in accordance with
subsection 1002.08.
         3.   Submittal Requirements. Submittal requirements for residential
planned unit development applications in Shoreland Districts shall be in
accordance with subsection 1003.18.
         4.   Site Suitable Area Evaluation. In all residential zoning
districts except for the R-5, Residential Redevelopment District, proposed new
or expansions to existing residential planned unit developments shall be
evaluated using the following procedures and standards to determine the
suitable area for the dwelling unit/dwelling site density evaluation. The
shoreland lot area and size requirements specified in the underlying zoning
district shall be utilized to determine density within each shoreland tier.
            a.   The project parcel shall be divided into tiers by locating one
or more lines approximately parallel to a line that identifies the ordinary
high water level at the following intervals, proceeding landward:
 
Table 18
Shoreland Tier Dimensions
                                                        Sewered
General Development Lakes - First Tier                  200 feet
General Development Lakes - Second and Additional Tiers 200 feet
Natural Environment Lakes                               320 feet
Recreational Development Lakes                          267 feet
 
            b.   The suitable area within each tier is next calculated by
excluding from the tier area all wetlands, bluffs, or land below the ordinance
high water level of public waters. This suitable area and the proposed project
are then subjected to the residential planned unit development density
evaluation steps to arrive at an allowable number of dwelling units or sites.
         5.   Residential Planned Unit Development Density Evaluation. For all
residential zoning districts, with the exception of the R-5, Residential
Redevelopment District, the procedures for determining the “base” density of a
residential planned unit development and density increase multipliers are as
follows: Allowable densities may be transferred from any tier to any other tier
further from the waterbody, but must not be transferred to any other tier
closer.
            a.   Residential Planned Unit Development “Base” Density
Evaluation. The suitable area within each tier is divided by the single
residential lot size standard for lakes. Proposed locations and numbers of
dwelling units or sites for the residential planned unit developments are then
compared with the tier, density, and suitability analyses herein and the design
criteria of Subd. 6 above.
            b.   Density Increase Multipliers.
               i.   Increases to the dwelling unit or dwelling site base
densities previously determined are allowable if the dimensional standards
identified in each underlying zoning district (Shoreland lot size, area, and
setback provisions) are met or exceeded and the design criteria in Subd. 6
above are satisfied. The allowable density increases in item 5.b.ii below will
only be allowed if structure setbacks from the ordinary high water level are
increased to at least 50% greater than the minimum setback, or the impact on
the waterbody is reduced an equivalent amount through vegetative management,
topography, or additional means acceptable to the city and the setback is at
least 25% greater than the minimum setback from the ordinary high water level.
               ii.   Allowable Dwelling Unit or Dwelling Site Density Increases
for Residential Planned Unit Developments.
 
Table 19
Density Evaluation Tiers Maximum Density Increase Within Each Tier
First                    50%
Second                   100%
Third                    200%
Fourth                   200%
Fifth                    200%
 
         6.   Maintenance and Design Criteria.
            a.   Maintenance and Administration Requirements.
               i.   Before final approval of a residential planned unit
development, adequate provisions shall be developed for preservation and
maintenance in perpetuity of open spaces and for the continued existence and
functioning of the development.
               ii.   Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent easements, public
dedication and acceptance, or other equally effective and permanent means shall
be provided to ensure long-term preservation and maintenance of open space. The
instruments shall include all of the following protections:
                  (a)   Commercial uses prohibited (for residential planned
unit development);
                  (b)   Vegetation and topographic alterations other than
routine maintenance prohibited;
                  (c)   Construction of additional buildings or storage of
vehicles and other materials prohibited; and
                  (d)   Uncontrolled beaching of watercraft prohibited.
               iii.   Unless an equally effective alternative community
framework is established, when applicable, all residential planned unit
developments shall use an owners’ association with the following features.
                  (a)   Membership shall be mandatory for each dwelling unit or
site purchaser and any successive purchasers.
                  (b)   Each member shall pay a pro rata share of the
association’s expenses, and unpaid assessments can become liens on units or
sites.
                  (c)   Assessments shall be adjustable to accommodate changing
conditions.
                  (d)   The association shall be responsible for insurance,
taxes, and maintenance of all commonly owned property and facilities.
            b.   Open Space Requirements. Residential planned unit
developments, in all districts except for the R-5, Residential Redevelopment
District, shall contain open space meeting all the following criteria.
               i.   At least 50% of the total project area shall be preserved
as open space.
               ii.   Dwelling units or sites, road rights-of-way, or land
covered by road surfaces, parking areas, or structures, except water oriented
accessory structures or facilities, are developed areas and shall not be
included in the computation of minimum open space.
               iii.   Open space shall include areas with physical
characteristics unsuitable for development in their natural state, and areas
containing significant historic sites or unplatted cemeteries.
               iv.   The appearance of open space areas, including topography,
vegetation, and allowable uses, shall be preserved by use of restrictive deed
covenant, permanent easements, public dedication and acceptance, or other
equally effective and permanent means.
               v.   The shore impact zone, based on normal structure setbacks,
shall be included as open space. At least 50% of the shore impact zone area of
existing developments or at least 70% of the shore impact zone area of new
developments shall be preserved in its natural or existing state.
            c.   Erosion Control and Storm Water Management. Erosion control
and storm water management plans shall be developed, and the residential
planned unit development shall:
               i.   Be designed, and the construction managed, to minimize the
likelihood of serious erosion occurring either during or after construction.
This shall be accomplished by limiting the amount and length of time of bare
ground exposure. Temporary ground covers, sediment entrapment facilities,
vegetated buffer strips, or other appropriate techniques shall be used to
minimize erosion impacts on surface water features. Erosion control plans
approved by a Soil and Water Conservation District may be required if project
size and site physical characteristics warrant; and
               ii.   Be designed and constructed to effectively manage
reasonably expected quantities and qualities of storm water runoff. In all
residential zoning districts except for the R-5, Residential Redevelopment
District, impervious surface coverage within any tier shall not exceed 25% of
the tier area.
            d.   Centralization and Design of Facilities. For all residential
zoning districts except the R-5, Residential Redevelopment District,
centralization and design of facilities and structures must be done according
to the following standards.
               i.   Dwelling units or sites shall be clustered into one or more
groups and located on suitable areas of the development. They shall be designed
and located to meet or exceed the following dimensional standards for the
relevant shoreland classification: setback from the ordinary high water level,
elevation above the surface water features, and maximum height. Setbacks from
the ordinary high water level shall be increased in accordance with Subd. 5.2
above for developments with density increases.
               ii.   Shore recreation facilities, including, but not limited
to, swimming areas, docks, and watercraft mooring areas and launching ramps,
shall be centralized and located in areas suitable for them. Evaluation of
suitability shall include consideration of land slope, water depth, vegetation,
soils, depth to ground water and bedrock, or other relevant factors. The number
of spaces provided for continuous beaching, mooring, or docking of watercraft
shall not exceed one for each allowable dwelling unit or site in the first tier
(notwithstanding existing mooring sites in an existing commercially used
harbor). Launching ramp facilities, including a small dock for loading and
unloading equipment, may be provided for use by occupants of dwelling units or
sites located in other tiers.
               iii.   Structures, parking areas, and other facilities shall be
treated to reduce visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent
shorelands by vegetation, topography, increased setbacks, or color, assuming
summer, leaf on conditions. Vegetative or topographic screening shall be
preserved, if existing, or may be required to be provided.
               iv.   Accessory structures and facilities, except water-oriented
accessory structures, shall meet the required principal structure setback and
shall be centralized.
         7.   Conversions. For all residential districts except the R-5,
Residential Redevelopment District, existing land uses may be converted to
residential planned unit developments consistent with the provisions of this
chapter and provided the following standards are met.
            a.   Proposed conversions shall be initially evaluated using the
same procedures for residential planned unit developments involving all new
construction. Inconsistencies between existing features of the development and
these standards shall be identified.
            b.   Deficiencies involving water supply and sewage treatment,
structure color, impervious coverage, open space, and shore recreation
facilities shall be corrected as part of the conversion or as specified in the
conditional use permit.
            c.   Shore and bluff impact zone deficiencies shall be evaluated
and reasonable improvements made as part of the conversion. These improvements
must include, where applicable, the following:
               i.   Removal of extraneous building, docks, or other facilities
that no longer need to be located in shore or bluff impact zones;
               ii.   Remedial measures to correct erosion sites and improve
vegetative cover and screening of buildings and other facilities as viewed from
the water;
               iii.   If existing dwelling units are located in shore or bluff
impact zones, conditions are attached to approvals of conversions that preclude
exterior expansions in any dimension or substantial alterations. The conditions
shall also provide for future relocation of dwelling units, where feasible, to
other locations, meeting all setback and elevation requirements when they are
rebuilt or replaced; and
               iv.   Existing dwelling unit or dwelling site densities that
exceed standards in Subd. 5.2 above may be allowed to continue but shall not be
allowed to be increased, either at the time of conversion or in the future.
Efforts shall be made during the conversion to limit impacts of high densities
by requiring seasonal use, improving vegetative screening, centralizing shore
recreation facilities, or other means.
         8.   Neighborhood Design Requirements. The purpose of this subsection
is to set forth design standards for residential PUD development to implement
the housing, neighborhood, environmental and greenway goals, and policies of
the City Comprehensive Plan. Residential developments shall be designed in
patterns which incorporate the following elements.
            a.   Neighborhood Amenities. All new residential developments must
incorporate the following neighborhood amenities into the project design,
subject to review and approval of the City Council.
               i.   General. Natural habitat, neighborhood recreation,
greenway, and/or pedestrian corridor open space, conforming to the type of use,
location criteria, and deed restrictions of that classification.
                  (a)   The City Council, at its discretion, may allow a
density increase for dedication of additional open space areas designated for
natural habitat, neighborhood recreation, and/or pedestrian corridors above the
required dedication defined by the subdivision ordinance.
                  (b)   The amenities shall not be considered as park
dedication required by the city subdivision ordinance, unless specifically
approved by the City Council.
                  (c)   All amenity areas designated as open space shall be
platted as outlots and held as open space in perpetuity.
                  (d)   The development shall be designed to preserve the
maximum quantity of natural habitat open spaces in a contiguous, connected
configuration. Natural habitat open space may include, but are not limited to,
fields, pastures, wetlands, slopes, bluffs, dense woods, lakes, ponds, streams,
shorelands, and other environmentally sensitive areas or desirable view sheds.
                  (e)   The development shall be designed to provide view sheds
of natural features for the enjoyment of the neighborhood.
               ii.   Pedestrian Corridors. The development shall be designed to
locate pedestrian corridors in strategic places such that larger open space
outlots and designated places of destination both on the development tract and
adjacent tracts are connected with one another. Pedestrian corridors may
include, but are not limited to, established regional trails, local pathways,
paved walkways, sidewalks, and shorelines. Pedestrian corridors shall be a
minimum of 30 feet in width.
               iii.   Neighborhood Recreation. The development shall be
designed to locate neighborhood recreation open spaces such that they are an
integral part of the neighborhood of surrounding home sites, at an elevation
appropriate to their intended recreational use, defined by coherent boundaries,
and accessible to all neighborhood residents. Neighborhood recreation open
spaces may include, but are not limited to, greens, commons, playgrounds, ball
fields, gardens, or other recreational areas.
               iv.   Accessibility. Open spaces shall be accessible to
pedestrians at not less than 1,200 foot intervals along public streets. Where
necessary, pedestrian access corridors between private lots shall be at least
30 feet in width.
               v.   Deed Restrictions. Each open space outlot shall conform to
the deed restrictions associated with its open space classification.
                  (a)   Natural habitat open spaces shall be considered
conservation easements and are for the responsible use and enjoyment of adults
and children. Construction in these areas shall be limited to trails (paved or
unpaved), open-air shelters, bridges, benches, birdhouses, and wood fencing.
                  (b)   Neighborhood recreation open spaces shall be used for
active or passive recreational purposes, including gardening. Construction in
these areas shall be limited walkways, open air shelters, bird houses, bridges,
garden storage sheds no larger than 120 square feet, wood fencing, landscape
planting, play equipment, outdoor furniture, and facilities for active
recreation.
                  (c)   Pedestrian corridors shall be used for pedestrian and
bicycle travel. Motorized vehicles shall be prohibited. Construction in these
areas shall be limited to gravel or paved pathways, wood fencing, and landscape
planting.
                  (d)   Habitable structures shall not be permitted in any open
space outlot.
               vi.   Ownership and Management. Each designated open space
outlot shall be owned and managed as set forth below, subject to City Council
approval.
                  (a)   Open space may be owned in common by the property
owners of the subdivision. In the case where at least one outlot of open space
is held in common ownership, a homeowner association shall be established for
that subdivision and membership in the association by all property owners in
the subdivision shall be mandatory. Management shall be the responsibility of
that subdivision’s homeowner association.
                  (b)   Open space may be deeded to an established land trust.
Management shall be the responsibility of the land trust. Maintenance may be
performed by the neighborhood homeowner association, through written agreement
between the association and the land trust.
                  (c)   Open space may be deeded to the city. Management shall
be the responsibility of the city.
                  (d)   Open space may be protected by establishing
conservation restrictions in perpetuity in favor of the city as provided in
M.S. §§ 84.64 to 84.65, as they may be amended from time to time. Unless the
document establishing the restrictions specifically provides to the contrary,
the city shall have no responsibility for the maintenance or management of the
area subject to the restrictions. The form and content of the deed or other
instrument establishing the restrictions must be approved by the city prior to
the execution and delivery thereof. Notwithstanding any provision of this
chapter to the contrary, the city may, in cases where conservation restrictions
are utilized to meet open space dedication requirements of this chapter, waive
the requirement that the area subject to the restrictions be platted as a
separate outlot.
            b.   Neighborhood Configuration. The standards identified herein
are intended to result in neighborhoods that offer a variety of lot sizes,
configurations, and amenities. Review and approval of standard subdivisions and
planned unit developments by the City Council shall be based upon an evaluation
that the proposed development plan provides a cohesive neighborhood(s) in a
site design appropriate to the location of common open spaces consistent with
the following provisions.
               i.   To establish a cohesive neighborhood unit, residential lots
and units should be located in neighborhood clusters to accomplish efficiency
of land utilization while adhering to the underlying density and open space
requirements of the Zoning District. The objective is to design the project in
a manner that minimizes the visual impact of the development on the landscape
to the greatest extent reasonably possible.
               ii.   The neighborhood cluster should be oriented toward an
identifiable feature which all residential units share in common. Neighborhood
identity may be established by one or more of the following features.
                  (a)   View Shed. The lots of a neighborhood may be arranged
such that a majority of the principal structures will take visual advantage of
a field, wetland, woods, lake, stream, or other open space which could be
described as a view shed.
                  (b)   Physical Amenity. The lots of a neighborhood may be
arranged such that a majority of the principal structures will face a green,
playground, ball field, rock out cropping, stand of trees, waterbodies, place
of worship, school, or other physical feature unique to that particular
neighborhood.
                  (c)   Streetscape. The lots may be arranged such that the
principal structures will face a street space enhanced with landscaping, street
trees, boulevards, medians, or other landscaping techniques appropriate to the
city’s street design standards.
   Subd. 9.   Non-Conformities. Subject to the applicable provisions of
subsection 1005.11, all legally established non-conformities as of October 29,
1985, may continue, but they shall be managed according to applicable state
statutes and other regulations of this community for the subjects of
alterations and additions, repair after damage, discontinuance of use, and
intensification of use; except that the following standards shall also apply in
shoreland areas.
         1.   Construction on Non-Conforming Lots of Record. This subsection
shall apply to all residential districts except for the R-5, Residential
Redevelopment District.
            a.   Lots of record in the office of the County Recorder on the
date of enactment of local shoreland controls that do not meet the requirements
of this subsection may be allowed as building sites without variances from lot
size requirements under the following provisions:
               i.   The use is permitted in the zoning district;
               ii.   The lot was created compliant with official controls in
effect at the time;
               iii.   Sewage treatment and setback requirements of this
subsection are met;
               iv.   The lot has been in separate ownership from abutting lands
on or before October 29, 1985. However, in a group of contiguous lots under
single ownership, any individual lot may be allowed as a building site if it is
at least 70% of the lot size requirements of this subsection;
               v.   All other dimensional requirements of this subsection shall
be complied with. However, in the event a property owner cannot comply with
other dimensional requirements of this subsection because of the limited size
of the lot, that property owner shall be required to obtain a variance where
necessary to prevent hardship. A variance from setback requirements must be
obtained before any use, sewage treatment system, or building permit shall be
issued for a lot. In evaluating the variance, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider sewage treatment and water supply capabilities or constraints of the
lot and shall deny the variance if adequate facilities cannot be provided; and
               vi.   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under the
same ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements of this
subsection, the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel of land for the
purposes of sale or development. The lot must be combined with the one or more
contiguous lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting the
requirements of this subsection as much as possible.
         2.   Non-Conforming Sewage Treatment System.
            a.   A sewage treatment system not meeting the requirements of this
subsection must be replaced, at a minimum, at any time a permit or variance of
any type is required for any improvement on, or use of, the property.
Replacement of a sewage treatment system must be made by connecting to the
city’s municipal system where the connection is available.
            b.   The governing body of the city has, by formal resolution,
notified the Commissioner of its program to identify non-conforming sewage
treatment systems. The city shall require replacement of any non-conforming
system identified by this program within a reasonable period of time which will
not exceed two years.
§ 1004.04 Wetland Overlay District.
   Subd. 1.   Findings, Intent, and Incorporation by Reference.
         1.   The city has determined that wetlands serve to maintain water
quality by filtering water that is discharged into groundwater aquifers and by
retaining inorganic sediments, toxicants, and nutrients. They also retain and
reduce the discharge of phosphorous and transform nutrients from their
inorganic to organic forms, thereby protecting streams and waterbodies from
eutrophication and contamination. Wetlands also store runoff and reduce the
velocity of and magnitude of flood peaks. In addition, some wetlands receive
the upward discharge of ground water. These wetlands tend to support more
stable biological communities since their water temperatures and water levels
tend to be more stable.
         2.   Wetland vegetation also reduces the energy of waves, currents,
and other erosive forces and serves to prevent the erosion of shoreline areas.
In addition, aquatic vegetation provides food, shelter, and special habitat for
wildlife. All of these wetland characteristics provide valuable recreation and
education resources.
         3.   The city has also found that wetlands vary significantly in the
degree that they have been altered. Wetlands within the city exhibit great
variations in their floral diversity, quality of wildlife and fishery habitat,
degree of fluctuation in response to storms, the extent to which their
shorelines have been altered or eroded, and their relative value in protecting
water quality. Therefore, the city has found that it is in the best interest of
the general health and welfare of the city to achieve no net loss of wetlands
within the community.
         4.   The city recognizes that a substantial amount of wetland
degradation results from sedimentation and nutrient loading related to
construction projects. Therefore, the city finds it necessary to require
extraordinary measures to prevent such construction related degradation.
         5.   In addition to having regulations that affect the physical
impacts within wetland areas, the city also finds it is necessary to regulate
the use of lands surrounding wetlands. Buffer strips (as defined by Section
1001, Rules and Definitions) are necessary and beneficial to maintaining the
health of wetlands. These strips of land surrounding wetlands protect their
shorelines from erosion, while serving to filter sediment, chemicals and other
nutrients before storm water discharges into the wetland. Buffer strips are
also beneficial in providing habitat for wildlife.
         6.   This subsection hereby incorporates by reference the Wetland
Conservation Act of 1991 (M.S. §§ 103G.221 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as
the WCA)) and any future amendments adopted by the Legislature. Any activities
exempted from the provisions of the WCA are also exempted from the requirements
of this subsection, insofar as they relate to the WCA. All wetlands, as defined
in subsection
1001.02, including those governed by the Department of Natural Resources, are
covered by the other provisions of this subsection. Also, there are
circumstances under which the strict enforcement of these regulations may be
unreasonable and in circumstances that meet the criteria established in
subsection
1002.12, departures from the strict application of these standards may be
permitted.
         7.   It is the intent of this chapter to avoid the alteration and
destruction of wetlands. When wetlands are altered or destroyed, mitigation
must be provided to recreate the functions and values of the lost wetland.
   Subd. 2.   Purpose and Implementation.
         1.   Through the adoption and enforcement of this subsection, the city
shall promote the general health, safety, and welfare of its residents by both
conserving and protecting wetlands and requiring sound management practices and
mitigation as provided for in the WCA when development occurs in the vicinity
of wetlands. Through the implementation of this subsection, the city seeks to
accomplish the following purposes:
            a.   To satisfy the requirements of the WCA as it may be amended
and thereby achieving no net loss of wetlands within the city;
            b.   To balance the needs to preserve and protect natural resources
and systems with both the rights of private property owners and the need to
support the efficient use of developable land within the city;
            c.   To preserve the natural character of the landscape through the
maintenance of wetland ecosystems;
            d.   To promote water quality by maintaining the ability of
wetlands to recharge ground water and receive the discharge of groundwater, to
retain sediment and toxicants and filter and strip nutrients from surface water
runoff before it discharges into community lakes and streams, thus avoiding the
contamination and eutrophication of these water features; and
            e.   To provide wildlife habitat and thereby support the
maintenance of diversity of both plant and animal species within the city.
         2.   To accomplish these purposes, the city will:
            a.   Maintain a comprehensive set of official maps identifying the
location and classification of all wetlands designated on the National Wetlands
Inventory within the city;
            b.   Establish wetland regulations that are coordinated with
floodplain and shoreland protection regulations;
            c.   Require sound management practices to protect, conserve,
maintain, enhance, and improve the quality of wetlands within the community;
            d.   Enforce standards for the alteration of wetlands when
alteration is allowed, including standards and procedures for the mitigation of
the loss of wetland areas and their functions and values, when alteration or
destruction occurs; and
            e.   Obtain protective easements over or acquire fee title to
wetlands as appropriate.
   Subd. 3.   General Provisions.
         1.   Identification and Delineation of Wetlands.
            a.   This subsection shall apply to all land containing wetlands
and land within the setback and buffer areas required by this section. Wetlands
shall be subject to the requirements established herein, as well as
restrictions and requirements established by other applicable federal, state,
and city ordinances and regulations. These wetland protection regulations shall
not be construed to allow anything otherwise prohibited in the zoning district
where the wetland area is located.
            b.   A wetland is land that meets the definition of “wetlands” set
forth in subsection
1001.02. The presence or absence of a wetland on the National Wetland Inventory
does not represent a definitive determination as to whether a wetland covered
by this section is or is not present. Wetlands that are identified during site
specific delineation activities but do not appear on the official National
Wetlands Inventory Map are still subject to the provisions of this subsection.
It will be the responsibility of an applicant to delineate the exact wetland
boundary or to determine that no wetland exists on a subject property. All
delineations must be reviewed and approved by the city. If an applicant
questions whether a wetland exists or disputes its classification, the
applicant shall have the burden to supply detailed information for review
supporting the applicant’s assertion, including, but not limited to,
topographic, hydrologic, floristic, and/or soil data deemed necessary by the
city to determine the jurisdictional status of the wetland, its exact boundary,
and its classification. Wetland delineations supplied by applicants shall be
certified by a qualified wetland delineator. Wetland delineators must satisfy
any certification requirements that may be established by the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers or the State Board of Water and Soil Resources.
            c.   Only that portion of a property within the boundaries of a
wetland shall be subject to the provisions of this subsection.
   Subd. 4.   General Standards. The following standards apply to all lands
within and/or abutting a wetland.
         1.   Septic and soil absorption systems must be set back a minimum of
75 feet from the city approved boundary of the wetland.
         2.   The lowest ground floor elevation shall be two feet above the
100-year flood elevation or the ordinary high water mark of public waters
regulated by subsection 1004.03, whichever is greater.
         3.   Structures intended to provide access across a wetland shall be
prohibited unless a permit is obtained in conformance with state regulations.
         4.   The MPCA’s Best Management Practices shall be followed to avoid
erosion and sedimentation during the construction process.
         5.   City inspection schedules and fines for erosion control will
double on projects abutting wetlands.
         6.   Before the city issues a building permit for a lot with a
required wetland buffer, the lot owner shall:
            a.   Record a notice of the wetland buffer requirement against the
title to the lot with the office of the County Recorder or Registrar of Titles;
and
            b.   Install the wetland monuments required by Subd. 7 below.
   Subd. 5.   Wetland Buffer Strips and Setbacks.
         1.   For lots of record developed after July 20, 2002 and prior to May
25, 2016, a buffer strip of 30 feet shall be maintained abutting all wetlands.
The setback and buffer provisions of this chapter shall apply to lots developed
or redeveloped on or after May 25, 2016. The city does, however, strongly
encourage the use of a wetland buffer and setback on all lots in the city.
         2.   Fifty-foot wetland buffer strips and structure setbacks shall
apply to all parcels of land, whether or not the wetland is on the same parcel
as a proposed development.
            a.   Any existing drain tile shall be modified as part of the
project to eliminate short circuiting of the buffer strip.
            b.   New or enhanced buffer strips shall be maintained by the
applicant for the later of one year after completion of the project or
acceptance by the Director of Public Works.
         3.   Buffer strip vegetation shall be established and maintained in
accordance with the requirements found in this section. During the first two
years, any buffer vegetation that does not survive must be replanted. After two
years, if the condition of the buffer area changes through natural processes
not caused by the property owner, the owner shall not be required to re-
establish the buffer area to meet the standards contained in Subd. 8 below.
Buffer strips shall be identified within each lot by permanent monuments
approved by the city.
         4.   For roadways that must be aligned either adjacent to or across
wetlands and are subject to WCA replacement requirements, additional wetland
filling to create a buffer strip shall not be required. Trails that are
intended to serve an interpretive function may also be exempted from the buffer
requirement. All other roadways and trails shall meet the setbacks and buffer
standards established in Subd. 6 below.
         5.   The use of a meandering buffer strip to maintain a natural
appearance is encouraged but not required in areas of flat topography.
         6.   The 50-foot buffer width and setback shall be measured from the
delineated boundary of the wetland and shall apply to structures, roadways, and
trails in all zoning districts.
         7.   Wetland buffer strips not required by this Section may be
voluntarily created in conformance with the requirements of this subsection and
upon approval of an administrative permit.
         8.   Example of Buffer and Setback Applied to a Wetland.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7630f31a49d9a5c72bf6cd42e5fcccf773532671/
IMAGES/0-0-0-23.jpg]
   Subd. 6.   Alternative Wetland Buffer Strips and Setbacks with Extraordinary
Management Measures.
         1.   Recognizing that there are instances where, because of the unique
physical characteristics of a specific parcel of land, narrower buffer strips
may be necessary to allow for the reasonable use of the land, the city has
developed alternative buffer strip standards that may be applied in these
instances.
         2.   The City Council may approve alternative standards, based on an
assessment of the following:
            a.   Size of the parcel;
            b.   Existing roads and utilities;
            c.   Percentage of parcel impacted by wetlands;
            d.   Configuration of wetlands on the parcel; and
            e.   Quality of the affected wetland(s).
         3.   The City Council will evaluate the appropriateness of using the
alternative standards as part of its review of a sketch plan. An applicant must
receive Council approval through either of these review processes prior to
submitting a preliminary plan or plat application that applies the alternative
buffer strip standards.
         4.   In instances where the City Council approves alternative buffer
standards, an applicant will be required to apply extraordinary management
measures to control erosion, sedimentation, and nutrient loading during and for
two years and after construction. The applicant must demonstrate that the
proposed measures:
            a.   Will limit dissolved phosphorous concentration to one
milligram per liter (mg/l) or less; and
            b.   Shall provide equal or improved protection to the resource and
provided that the resources total buffer area remains the same.
         5.   Extraordinary management measures that may be permitted in
conjunction with and up-slope from the above buffer strip and setback
requirement include, but are not limited to, measures that add redundant
protections to normal required best management practices.
         6.   The applicant shall be responsible to submit all of the necessary
information to document that the proposed extraordinary construction and storm
water management practices (hereinafter referred to as “Extraordinary
Management Practices”) will at least duplicate the performance of the required
buffers and setbacks, if not exceed it. The applicant shall also have the
burden of proving that the purpose and objectives of this chapter will be met
through the use of these extraordinary management practices.
         7.   The approval of any extraordinary management practices shall be
conditioned upon a site improvement performance agreement of this chapter, that
includes a binding commitment to the maintenance of the proposed alternative
treatments throughout their useful life.
   Subd. 7.   Monument Required. A monument is required at each lot line where
it crosses a wetland buffer with a maximum spacing of 200 feet of wetland edge.
   Subd. 8.   Buffer Strip Vegetation Performance Standards.
         1.   Where acceptable natural vegetation exists in buffer strip areas,
the retention of such vegetation in an undisturbed state is preferred. A buffer
strip has acceptable natural vegetation if it:
            a.   Has a continuous, dense layer of perennial grasses that have
been uncultivated or unbroken for at least ten consecutive years;
            b.   Has an overstory of trees and/or shrubs with at least 80%
canopy closure that have been uncultivated or unbroken for at least ten
consecutive years; or
            c.   Contains a mixture of the plant communities described in items
1.a and 1.b above that have been uncultivated or unbroken for at least ten
consecutive years.
         2.   Notwithstanding the above performance standards, the city may
determine existing buffer vegetation to be unacceptable if:
            a.   It is composed of undesirable plant species (including, but
not limited to reed canary grass, common buckthorn, purple loosestrife, leafy
spurge, and noxious weeds);
            b.   It is lacking a layer of organic thatch or duff;
            c.   Has topography that tends to channelize the flow of surface
runoff; or
            d.   For some other reason, it is unlikely to retain nutrients and
sediment.
         3.   Where buffer areas, or a portion thereof, are not vegetated or
have been cultivated or otherwise disturbed within ten years of the permit
application, such areas shall be re-planted and maintained according to each of
the following standards.
            a.   Buffer zones shall be planted with a seed mix containing 100%
perennial native plant species, except for a one-time planting of an annual
nurse or cover crop such as oats or rye.
            b.   The annual nurse or cover crop shall be applied at a rate of
20 pounds per acre.
            c.   Native shrubs may be substituted for forbs. Shrubs shall be
distributed so as to provide a natural appearance and shall not be planted in
rows.
            d.   Any ground cover or shrub plantings installed in buffer areas
are independent of landscaping requirements set forth elsewhere in the City
Code and city policy.
            e.   Native prairie grasses and forbs shall be planted by a
qualified contractor using a drill designed for native prairie grass seedlings.
            f.   No fertilizer shall be used in establishing new buffer zones,
except on highly disturbed sites where deemed necessary to establish acceptable
buffer vegetation and then limited to amounts indicated by an accredited soil
testing laboratory.
            g.   All seeded areas shall be mulched immediately with a mulch
material approved by the City Engineer. Mulch shall be anchored with a disk or
tackifier.
            h.   Buffer zones (both natural and created) shall be protected by
silt fence during construction, and the fence shall remain in place until the
area crop is established.
            i.   Applicants may obtain from the city a set of standard seeding
and planting specifications for buffer zones which meet all the city
requirements.
         4.   During the first two years, the developer shall replant any
buffer vegetation that does not survive. After two years, if the condition of
the buffer area changes through natural processes not caused by the property
owner, the owner shall not be required to re-establish the buffer area to meet
the standards established in this Section.
§ 1004.05 Mississippi Recreational River Overlay District.
   Subd. 1.   Policy and Authorization. An ordinance for the controlling of
bluffland and riverland development, in order to protect and preserve the
outstanding scenic, recreational natural, historical, and scientific values of
the Mississippi River in the city, as required by Minn. Rules parts 6105.0800
to 6105.0960, as they may be amended from time to time.
   Subd. 2.   Title. This subsection shall be known, cited and referred to as
the City Mississippi Recreational River Ordinance; except as referred to
herein, where it shall be known as “this Ordinance.”
   Subd. 3.   Purpose. This subsection is adopted to achieve the policy of
Subd. 1 above and to:
         1.   Designate land use districts along the bluffland and shoreline of
the Mississippi River;
         2.   Regulate the area of a lot, and the length of the bluffland and
water frontage suitable for building sites;
         3.   Regulate the setback of structures and sanitary waste treatment
facilities from blufflines and shorelines to protect the existing and/or
natural scenic values, vegetation, soils, water quality, floodplain areas, and
bedrock from disruption by human-made structures or facilities;
         4.   Regulate alterations of the natural vegetation and topography;
         5.   Maintain property values and prevent poorly planned development;
and
         6.   Conserve and protect the natural scenic values and resources of
the Mississippi River and maintain a high standard of environmental quality.
   Subd. 4.   General Provisions.
         1.   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all
incorporated land designated within the Mississippi River land use district
within the city, as shown on the official city zoning map.
         2.   Compliance. The use of any land within the Mississippi River land
use district; the size and shape of lots; the use and location of structures on
lots; the installation and maintenance of waste disposal facilities; the
filling, grading, lagooning, or dredging of any river area; the cutting of
vegetation or alteration of the natural topography within the district; and the
subdivision of land shall be in full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Permits from the Zoning Administrator are
required by this subsection and the city zoning ordinance for the construction
of buildings, public or private sewage treatment systems, the grading and
filling of the natural topography, and erection of signs within the Mississippi
River Recreational Land Use District.
         3.   Rules.
            a.   It is not intended by this subsection to repair, abrogate, or
impair any existing easement, covenants, deed restrictions, or land use
controls. Where this subsection imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of
this chapter shall prevail.
            b.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of
this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements, and shall not be deemed
a limitation or repeal of any powers or rights granted by Minnesota Statutes.
            c.   The provisions of this chapter shall be severable, and the
invalidity of any paragraph, subparagraph, or subdivision thereof shall not
make void any other paragraph, subparagraph, subdivision or any other part. If
any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid any provision of this
chapter or the application of this chapter to a particular property, building,
or other structure, such judgment shall not affect any other provision of this
chapter or any other property, building, or structure not specifically included
in said judgment.
   Subd. 5.   Land Use District Provisions.
         1.   Designation of Districts. In order to preserve and protect the
Mississippi River and its adjacent lands, which possess outstanding scenic,
recreational, natural, historical, scientific, and similar values; the
Mississippi River in the city has been given the recreational river
classifications and the uses, and classification of the river and its adjacent
lands are hereby designated by land use zoning districts, which are shown on
the city zoning map and shall be as follows: Recreational River Management
Zone. All lands within the Recreational River District along the Mississippi
River, which are downstream from the State Highway 24 bridge at Clearwater, as
identified in Minn. Rules Chapter 2420, located within the city.
         2.   Minimum Area, Setbacks, and Other Requirements.
            a.   The following chart sets for the minimum area, setbacks, and
other requirements on the district.
Table 20
Standard Requirement
Table 20
Standard                                     Requirement
Building setback from bluffline              25 feet
Building setback from ordinary high water    100 feet
mark
Controlled vegetative cutting area           (See subsection 1004.05, Subd. 8)
Lot width at building line                   200 feet
Lot width at ordinary high water mark        200 feet
Maximum structure height*                    35 feet
Minimum lot size above high water mark       20 acres or 2 acres if platted
On-site sewage treatment system setback from 75 feet
ordinary high water mark
Setback from bluffline                       25 feet
Setback from ordinary high water mark        100 feet
Note to Table:
*   Does not apply to structures used for agricultural purposes.
            b.   For lots of record developed after February 27, 2008, a buffer
strip of an average of 50 feet but no less than 30 feet shall be maintained
abutting all waters of the state. The buffer provisions of this chapter shall
apply to lots developed or redeveloped on or after February 27, 2008. The city
does however strongly encourage the use of a buffer on all lots in the city.
            c.   Buffer strips shall apply to all parcels of land whether or
not the water of the state is on the same parcel as a proposed development.
               i.   Any existing drain tile shall be modified as part of the
project to eliminate short circuiting of the buffer strip.
               ii.   New or enhanced buffer strips shall be maintained by the
applicant for the later of one-year after completion of the project or
acceptance by the City Engineer.
            d.   Buffer strip vegetation shall be established and maintained in
accordance with the requirements found in subsection
1004.04. During the first two years, any buffer vegetation that does not
survive must be replanted. After two years, if the condition of the buffer area
changes through natural processes not caused by the property owner, the owner
shall not be required to re-establish the buffer area to meet the standards
contained in subsection
1004.04, Subd. 8. Buffer strips shall be identified within each lot by
permanent monuments approved by the city.
            e.   No structure shall be placed on any slope greater than 13% (13
feet vertical rise in 100 foot horizontal distance), unless such structures can
be screened and sewage disposal system facilities can be installed so as to
comply with the Sewage Treatment System provisions of Subd. 7 below.
            f.   No structure shall be placed in any floodway. Structures
proposed within a floodplain shall be consistent with the State-wide Standards
and Criteria for Management of Floodplain Areas of Minnesota (Minn. Rules
6120.5000 through 6120.6200) and subsection
1004.02.
         3.   Substandard Lots.
            a.   Lots of record in the office of the County Recorder on the
effective date of enactment of the ordinance from which this chapter is
derived, which do not meet the dimensional requirements of this chapter, shall
be allowed as building sites, provided such use is permitted in the land use
district, the lot was in separate ownership on the date of enactment of the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, and all sanitary and dimensional
requirements are complied with, as practicable.
            b.   If, in a group of contiguous lots under a single ownership,
any individual lot does not meet the lot width minimum requirements of this
chapter, such individual lot cannot be considered as a separate parcel of land
for purposes of sale or development, but must be combined with adjacent lots
under the same ownership so that the combination of lots will equal one or more
parcels of land each meeting the lot width requirements of this chapter, except
that such lots which are 50% or more of the lot width standards of these
regulations may be considered as a separate parcel of land for the purpose of
sale or development, if on-site sewage treatment systems can be installed so as
to comply with this chapter.
   Subd. 6.   Uses Within the Land Use District.
         1.   Purpose. The purpose of establishing standards and criteria for
uses in the Mississippi River Land Use District shall be to protect and
preserve existing natural, scenic, historical, scientific, and recreational
values, to maintain proper relationships between various land use types, and to
prohibit new residential, commercial, or industrial uses that are inconsistent
with the standards and criteria for recreational rivers.
         2.   Permitted and Conditional Uses.
            a.   In the following table of uses, “P” means permitted use, “C”
means conditional use, and “N” means non-permitted use. Certain of the
following uses are subject to the zoning dimension provisions and sewage
treatment system provisions of this subdivision and Subd. 7 below. All of the
following uses are subject to the vegetative cutting provisions of Subd. 8
below.
Table 21
Agricultural uses P
Table 21
Agricultural uses                                                             P
Essential services                                                            P
Forestry uses                                                                 P
Governmental campground, subject to management plan specifications            P
Governmental resource management for improving fish and wildlife habitat,     P
wildlife management areas, nature areas, accessory roads
Municipal government buildings, uses, and utilities                           P
Other governmental open space recreational uses, subject to management plan   P
specifications
Other private open space recreational uses, subject to management plan        C
specifications
Places of worship and graveyards                                              C
Private campgrounds, subject to management plan specifications                C
Private roads and minor public streets                                        P
Public accesses, road access type with boat launching facilities subject to   P
management plan specifications
Public accesses, trail access type, subject to management plan specifications P
Public roads, subject to the conditions and criteria of MN Regulations NR 79  C
(I)
Sewage disposal systems                                                       P
Signs approved by Federal, State, or local government, which are necessary
for public health and safety and signs indicating areas that are available or P
not available for public use
Signs not visible from the river that are not specified in subsection
1004.05, Subd. 6.2.n above. In accordance with Chapter 13 of the Big Lake     P
City Code
Single-family residential uses                                                P
Temporary docks                                                               C
Underground mining that does not involve surface excavation in the land use   C
district
Utility transmission power lines and pipelines subject to the conditions and  C
criteria of Minnesota Regulations NR 79(i)
Note to Table:
All uses not listed as permitted or conditional uses shall not be allowed
within the applicable land use districts.
 
            b.   In addition to uses in this subdivision, the following uses
shall be considered conditional uses within the Mississippi Special Use
District, which includes all of the Mississippi River land use district legally
described as Government Lots 1,2,3,4 of Section 35, Township 33N, Range 28W,
and is shown on the City Zoning Map:
               i.   Restaurants, cafes, or taverns;
               ii.   Professional offices;
               iii.   Franchised automobile and farm implement dealers;
               iv.   Motels, motor hotels, or tourist camps;
               v.   Miniature golf courses or archery or golf driving ranges;
               vi.   Marine and boat sales;
               vii.   Landscape nurseries or garden stores;
               viii.   Drive-in restaurants, or similar uses that provide goods
and services patrons in automobiles;
               ix.   Drive-in retail stores or service uses;
               x.   Bowling alleys;
               xi.   Automobile service stations; and
               xii.   Car washes.
   Subd. 7.   Sewage Treatment Systems.
         1.   Any premises intended for human occupancy must provide for an
adequate method of sewage treatment. Public or municipal collection and
treatment facilities must be used where available and feasible. Where public or
municipal facilities are not available, all on-site individual sewer treatment
systems shall conform to the minimum standards and administrative procedures
set forth in the city zoning ordinance and the minimum standards of the State
Pollution Control Agency, the State Department of Health, Subd. 5.2 above, and
this subdivision.
         2.   No person, firm, or corporation shall install, alter, repair, or
extend any individual sewer disposal system without first obtaining a permit
for such from the Zoning Administrator for the specific installation,
alteration, repair, or extension.
   Subd. 8.   Landscape Alterations.
         1.   Vegetative Cutting.
            a.   General Provisions within Designated Setback Areas.
               i.   Clear cutting, except for any authorized public services
such as roads and utilities, shall not be permitted.
               ii.   Selective cutting of trees in excess of four inches in
diameter at breast height shall be permitted providing cutting is spaced in
several cutting operations and a continuous tree cover is maintained.
               iii.   The cutting provisions of Subd. 8.2 below shall not be
deemed to prevent:
                  (a)   The removal of diseased or insect infested trees, or of
rotten or damaged trees that present safety hazards; and/or
                  (b)   Pruning understory vegetation, shrubs, plants, brush,
grass, or from harvesting crops, or cutting suppressed trees or trees less than
four inches in diameter at breast height.
            b.   Clear Cutting. Clear cutting anywhere in the designated land
use district on the Mississippi River is subject to the following standards and
criteria.
               i.   Clear cutting shall not be used as a cutting method where
soil, slope, or other watershed conditions are determined by the zoning
authority to be fragile and subject to severe erosion and/or sedimentation.
               ii.   Clear cutting shall be conducted only where clear cut
blocks, patches, or strips are, in all cases, shaped and blended with the
natural terrain.
               iii.   The size of clear cut blocks, patches, or strips shall be
kept at a minimum necessary.
               iv.   Where feasible, all clear cuts shall be conducted between
September 15 and May 15. If natural regeneration will not result in adequate
vegetative cover, areas in which clear cutting is conducted shall be replanted
to prevent erosion and to maintain the aesthetic quality of the area. Where
feasible, replanting shall be performed in the same spring, or the following
spring.
         2.   Grading, Filling, Alterations of the Beds of Public Waters.
            a.   Any grading and filling work done within the designated land
use district(s) of this chapter shall require a permit from the Zoning
Administrator and shall comply with the following.
               i.   Grading and filling of the natural topography, which is not
accessory to a permitted or conditional use, shall not be permitted in the land
use district.
               ii.   Grading and filling of the natural topography, which is
accessory to a permitted or conditional use, shall not be conducted without a
grading and filling permit from the zoning authority. A grading and filling
permit may be issued only if the conditions of this subdivision are properly
satisfied.
               iii.   Grading and filling of the natural topography shall be
performed in a manner which minimizes earthmoving, erosion, tree clearing, and
the destruction of natural amenities.
               iv.   Grading and filling of the natural topography shall also
meet the following standards:
                  (a)   The smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for as
short a time as feasible;
                  (b)   Temporary ground cover such as mulch is used and
permanent ground cover, such as sod is planted;
                  (c)   Methods to prevent erosion and to strap sediment are
employed; and
                  (d)   Fill is stabilized to accept engineering standards.
            b.   Excavation of material from, or filling in a recreational
river, or construction of any permanent structures or navigational obstructions
therein is prohibited unless authorized by a permit from the Commissioner of
DNR pursuant to M.S. § 103G.245, as it may be amended from time to time.
            c.   Drainage or filling in of wetlands is not allowed within the
land use district(s) designated by this subsection.
   Subd. 9.   Land Subdivision.
         1.   Land Suitability.
            a.   No land shall be subdivided which is determined by the City
Council to be unsuitable by reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, soil and
rock formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion
potential, unfavorable topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment
capabilities, or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety,
or welfare of the future residents of the proposed subdivision or the
community.
            b.   The provisions otherwise set forth in this subsection and in
the city subdivision ordinance shall apply to all plats.
         2.   Planned Unit Developments. A planned unit development may be
allowed only when the proposed clustering provides a better means of preserving
agricultural land, open space, woods, scenic views, wetlands, and other
features of the natural environment than traditional subdivisions development.
Except for minimum setbacks and height limits, altered dimensional standards
may be allowed as exceptions to this chapter for planned unit development
provided:
            a.   Preliminary plans are approved by the Commissioner prior to
their enactment by the City Council;
            b.   Central sewage facilities are installed which meet the
standards, criteria, rules, or regulations of the State Department of Health
and Pollution Control Agency;
            c.   Open space is preserved. This may be accomplished through the
use of restrictive deed covenants, public dedications, granting of easements,
or other methods; and
            d.   There is not more than one centralized boat launching facility
for each planned unit development.
   Subd. 10.   Administration.
         1.   Organizational Provisions.
            a.   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the
City Administrator.
            b.   The Board of Adjustment of the city shall act upon all
questions as they arise in the administration of this chapter; to hear and
decide appeals; and to review any order, requirements, decisions, or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator, who is charged with enforcing
this subsection as provided by Minnesota Statutes.
            c.   Permit fees and inspection fees, as may be established by
resolution of the City Council, shall be collected by the Zoning Administrator
for deposit with the city, and credited to the appropriate General Fund.
         2.   Non-Conforming Uses, Substandard Uses.
            a.   Non-Conforming Uses. Uses which are prohibited by this
subsection, but which are in existence prior to the effective date of the
ordinance from which this subsection is derived, shall be non-conforming uses.
Such uses shall not be intensified, enlarged, or expanded beyond the permitted
or delineated boundaries of the use or activity as stipulated in most current
permits issued prior to the adoption of this subsection.
            b.   Non-Conforming Sanitary Systems. All sanitary facilities
inconsistent with the performance standards of Section 810 of the City Code and
the minimum standards of the State Pollution Control Agency and the State
Department of Health shall be brought into conformity or discontinued within
five years of the date of enactment of this or other applicable ordinances.
            c.   Substandard Uses. All uses in existence prior to the effective
date or enactment or amendment of this subsection which are permitted uses
within the newly established land use district, but do not meet the minimum lot
area, setbacks, or other dimensional requirements of this chapter are
substandard uses. All substandard uses, except for substandard signs, shall be
allowed to continue subject to the following conditions and exception.
               i.   Any structural alteration or addition to a substandard use
which will increase the substandard dimensions shall not be allowed.
               ii.   Substandard signs shall be gradually eliminated over a
period of this not to exceed five years from the date of the enactment of this
subsection.
               iii.   Where a setback pattern from the ordinary high water mark
has already been established on both sides of a proposed building site, the
setback of the proposed structure may be allowed to conform to that pattern.
This provision shall apply to lots which do not meet the minimum lot width
requirements (Subd. 5.2.a above).
         3.   Plats.
            a.   Copies of all plats within the boundaries of the Mississippi
River Land Use District(s) shall be forwarded to the Commissioner within ten
days of approval of the city.
            b.   Inconsistent Plans. Approval of a plat, which is inconsistent
with this subsection, is permissible only if the detrimental impact of the
inconsistency is more than overcome by other protective characteristics of the
proposal.
            c.   All inconsistent plats approved by the city must be reviewed
in accordance with Subd. 10.6 below.
         4.   Conditional Use Permit Review. A copy of all notices of any
public hearing, or where a public hearing is not required, a copy of the
application to consider issuance of a conditional use permit shall be sent so
as to be received by the Commissioner at least ten days prior to such hearings
or meeting to consider issuance of a conditional use permit. A copy of the
decision shall be forwarded to the Commissioner within ten days of such action.
         5.   Approval by Commissioner.
            a.   Certain land use decisions, which directly affect the use of
land within the designated land use districts and involve any of the following
actions, must be approved by the Commissioner (Subd. 10.6 below):
               i.   Adopting or amending an ordinance regulating the use of
land including rezoning of particular tracts of land;
               ii.   Granting a variance from a provision of this chapter which
relates to the zoning dimension provisions of Subd. 5 above; and
               iii.   Approving a plat which is inconsistent with the local
land use ordinance.
            b.   Review Procedure.
               i.   A copy of all notices of any public hearings, or where a
public hearing is not required, a copy of the application to consider zoning
amendments, variances, or inconsistent plats under local ordinance shall be
sent so as to be received by the Commissioner at least ten days prior to such
hearings or meetings to consider such actions. The notice of application shall
include a copy of the proposed ordinances or amendment.
               ii.   The action of the city shall become effective when and
only when either:
                  (a)   The action has previously received approval from the
Commissioner;
                  (b)   The city receives approval after its final decision;
                  (c)   Thirty days have elapsed from the day the Commissioner
received notice of the final decision, and no response has been sent by the
Commissioner; or
                  (d)   The Commissioner certifies his or her approval within
30 days after conducting a public hearing.
         6.   Permits. The following table summarizes the permit and
certification process within the land use districts designated by this chapter.
Table 22
Recreational Land Use District Permits Action Necessary
Table 22
Recreational Land Use District   Action Necessary
Permits
Amendments of district boundary* PH - AC
Amendments to ordinance          PH - AC
Building permits                 LP
Conditional use permits          PH - FD
Grading, filling permits         LP
Inconsistent plat                PH - AC
Planned unit developments        PH - WA
Plats                            PH (notification not required - FD
Septic permits                   LP
Sign construction permits        LP
Water supply permits             LP
Variances                        PH - AC
Note to Table:
*   Amendments to district boundary also requires a hearing by the
Department of Natural Resources under the authority of M.S. Chapter 15, as
it may be amended from time to time.
LP:   Permit issued by the city in accordance with this chapter and all
other city ordinances.
AC:   Approval by the Commissioner of Natural Resources prior to final local
approval.
PH:   Public hearing necessary by the local authority giving ten days’
notice of the hearing to the Commissioner of Natural Resources.
FD:   The city forwards any decisions to the Commissioner of Natural
Resources within ten days after taking final action.
WA:   The Commissioner of Natural Resources shall submit, after notice of
public hearing and before the local authority gives preliminary approval,
written review, and approval of the project.
 
         7.   Enforcement. In the event of a violation or a threatened
violation of this chapter, the city, or the Commissioner of Natural Resources,
in addition to other remedies, may institute appropriate actions or proceedings
to prevent, restrain, or abate such violations or threatened violations.
§ 1004.06 Transit Oriented Development District.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of the Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
District is to:
         1.   Implement the city’s “vision” of the TOD area as outlined in the
City Comprehensive Plan, Transit Oriented Development Design Manual, and Master
Plan;
         2.   Encourage a mix of moderate and high density development within
walking distance of the transit station (to increase transit ridership);
         3.   Create a pedestrian-friendly environment to encourage walking,
bicycling, and transit use;
         4.   Provide an alternative to traditional development by welcoming
and promoting mixed use, pedestrian oriented development;
         5.   Create a neighborhood identity that promotes pedestrian activity,
human interactions, safety, and livability;
         6.   Reduce automobile dependency and roadway congestion by locating
multiple destinations and trip purposes within walking distance of one another;
and
         7.   Provide a range of housing options for people of different income
levels, needs, and at different stages of life.
   Subd. 2.   Establishment of Zones. Within the Transit Oriented Development
District, the following zones are to be established in accordance with City
Comprehensive Plan, Transit Oriented Development Design Manual, and Master
Plan.
         1.   Station Zone. The “Station Zone” shall include lands generally
within one quarter mile of the rail station (as depicted in the Comprehensive
Plan/ Transit Oriented Development Design Manual/Master Plan) and serves as the
focal point of the TOD area. Within this zone, transit oriented commercial uses
and high density apartment-style housing are intended to be the primary
features.
         2.   Midway Zone. The “Midway Zone” includes lands generally between
one- quarter and one-half mile of the rail station (as depicted in the
Comprehensive Plan/Transit Oriented Development Design Manual/Master Plan) and
is intended to accommodate a mix of commercial and high density residential
housing.
         3.   Transition Zone. The “Transition Zone” shall include lands
generally located between one-half and three-quarter miles of the rail station
(as depicted in the Comprehensive Plan/Transit Oriented Development Design
Manual/Master Plan). The transition zone is intended to transition from the
Station and Midway Zones to the land uses that lie beyond the Transition Zone.
Within this zone, business campus uses, similar to that allowed within the
city’s B-1, Business Campus Zoning District, and high density residential uses,
similar to that allowed within the R-3 High Density Residential zoning district
are encouraged.
   Subd. 3.   Allowed Uses. The following uses are allowed within the TOD
District (by specific zone) and subject to applicable administrative
requirements of this chapter.
Table 23
STATION ZONE MIDWAY ZONE TRANSITION ZONE
Table 23
STATION ZONE              MIDWAY ZONE                TRANSITION ZONE
Permitted Uses
Service oriented office
uses
Above ground floor non-
service oriented office
uses
Mixed uses with ground
floor retail, personal
services, and/or service
oriented offices and an
above ground floor
multiple-family
residential component     Mixed uses with ground
Banks, credit unions      floor retail, personal
Retail businesses (under  services, and/or service
10,000 square feet) as    oriented offices and an    All permitted uses as
standalone units or as    above ground floor         allowed within the B-1,
part of a multi-tenant    multiple-family            Business Campus Zoning
building                  residential component      District
Government uses and       Ground floor restaurants   All permitted uses as
buildings (including      (without drive-through     allowed within the R-
transportation terminals) facilities)                3 High Density Residential
Transit stations          Multiple-family            Zoning District
Restaurants (without      residential developments
drive-through facilities) containing eight or more
Civic, cultural, and      dwelling units per acre
community facilities
Theaters, except drive-
ins
Dry cleaner stores with
cleaning facilities
outside the TOD District
Concessions/vending as
approved by Metro Transit
Multiple-family
residential developments
containing ten or more
dwelling units per acre
Accessory Uses
Accessory antennas        Accessory antennas
Accessory uses and        Accessory uses and
buildings customary and   buildings customary and
incidental to uses        incidental to uses allowed
allowed as permitted,     as permitted, conditional, All permitted accessory
conditional, interim, and interim, and               uses as allowed within the
administrative permits in administrative permits in  B-1, Business Campus
this chapter              this chapter               Zoning District
Fences                    Fences                     All permitted accessory
Off-street parking and    Home occupations           uses as allowed within the
loading                   Off-street parking and     R-3, High Density
Sexually oriented use -   loading                    Residential Zoning
accessory, as regulated   Sexually oriented use -    District
by subsection 1005.10 and accessory, as regulated by
the license requirements  subsection 1005.10 and the
of the city               license requirements of
Signs                     the city
                          Signs
Uses by Administrative Permit
All uses by                                          All uses by administrative
administrative permit as  All uses by administrative permit as allowed within
allowed in the B-1,       permit as allowed in the   the B-1, Business Campus
Business Campus Zoning    B-1, Business Campus       Zoning District
District                  Zoning District and the B- All uses by administrative
Outdoor dining, accessory 2, Neighborhood Business   permit as allowed within
as regulated by           District                   the R-3 High Density
subsection 1006.07                                   Residential Zoning
                                                     District
Conditional Uses
Accessory outdoor seating Accessory outdoor seating
associated with food      associated with food
service businesses        service businesses         All conditional uses as
Commercial parking lots   Convenience stores with    allowed within the B-1,
and structures (as a      gas                        Business Campus Zoning
principal use)            Restaurants with drive-    District
Commercial recreation     through facilities         Office/warehouse
(indoor)                  Hotels                     Public, educational, and
Stadiums and sports       Hospitals                  religious buildings and
facilities over 10,000    Public, educational, and   municipal government
seats                     religious buildings and    buildings
Grocery stores over       municipal government       All conditional uses as
10,000 square feet        buildings                  allowed within the R-
All permitted uses in the All permitted uses in the  3 High Density Residential
B-2 Neighborhood Business B-2 Neighborhood Business  Zoning District
District not already      District not already
permitted in the Station  permitted in the Midway
Zone                      Zone
Interim Uses
All interim uses as       All interim uses as        All interim uses as
allowed within the B-1,   allowed within the B-1,    allowed within the B-1,
Business Campus Zoning    Business Campus Zoning     Business Campus Zoning
District                  District                   District
 
   Subd. 4.   Parking Requirements.
         1.   Supply Requirements.
            a.   Station Zone.
               i.   Non-Residential Uses. Not more than one parking space per
100 square feet of gross building area.
               ii.   Residential Uses. A minimum of one stall shall be provided
per unit. A maximum of two parking stalls per unit is allowed as a permitted
use. Up to three parking stalls per unit may be allowed by conditional use
permit. Any parking that is provided beyond one and one-half stalls per unit
shall be in a garage or parking structure.
            b.   Midway Zone.
               i.   Non-Residential Uses. Not more than one parking space per
100 feet of gross building area.
               ii.   Residential Uses. A minimum of two parking stalls shall be
provided per unit. One stall shall be in a garage or parking structure. A
maximum of two and one-half stalls is allowed as a permitted use. Up to three
parking stalls may be allowed per unit by conditional use permit.
            c.   Transition Zone.
               i.   Non-Residential Uses. There shall be no minimum or maximum
parking requirement.
               ii.   Residential Uses. A minimum of two parking stalls shall be
provided per unit. A maximum of two and one-half stalls is allowed as a
permitted use. Up to three parking stalls may be allowed per unit by
conditional use permit.
         2.   Shared Parking. For lots serving more than one use, the total
number of spaces required may be reduced, provided that the applicant submits
credible evidence to the satisfaction of the city that the peak parking demand
of the uses will not coincide and that the accumulated parking demand at any
one time shall not exceed the total capacity of the facility.
         3.   Parking Lots.
            a.   Surface parking lots shall not be located within front yards
or other yards which abut public streets.
            b.   Surface parking lots with more than 30 spaces shall be divided
into separate areas by landscaped areas of at least ten feet in width. A
minimum of 15% of all surface lots shall be landscaped. No row of parking shall
be more than ten spaces wide without being interrupted by a landscaped area.
Each landscaped area shall have at least one tree. Landscaped areas shall be
planted with low-maintenance, salt tolerant plants (capable of withstanding
extreme weather conditions) and irrigated.
            c.   Surface lots shall be screened along all sidewalks by a
landscaped buffer of not less than five feet or three-foot walls or fencing
compatible with the adjacent architecture.
            d.   Surface parking lots shall provide pedestrian walkways and
connections to the sidewalk system.
         4.   Parking Structures.
            a.   Parking structures shall incorporate pedestrian walkways and
connections to the neighborhood sidewalk system.
            b.   Parking structures are encouraged to include ground level
retail uses along streets and sidewalks.
            c.   Parking structures shall adhere to the guidelines of the City
Downtown Design Standards. Application of the standards shall follow the same
procedure as in the Downtown Design Standards-Transition Zone.
         5.   Bicycle Racks. Bicycle racks shall be provided on-site at a ratio
of one space for every 15 automobile parking spaces or portion thereof.
   Subd. 5.   Dimensional Requirements.
         1.   Building Setbacks.
            a.   Station and Midway Zones.
               i.   Front Yard: Minimum of zero feet and maximum of five feet
for mixed-use and commercial buildings. Minimum of five feet and a maximum of
15 feet for residential buildings without a mixed-use component. Steps, stoops,
ramps, or similar features may encroach into the required setback provided they
do not extend above the height of the ground floor level of the principal
structure. The front yard setback may be increased to 25 feet from the front
property line if a courtyard, plaza, or seating area is incorporated into the
development (adjacent to the public street).
               ii.   Side Yard: Minimum of zero feet and maximum of 25 feet.
               iii.   Rear Yard: 15 feet.
            b.   Transition Zones. Same as applied in the B-1, Business Campus
District for non-residential uses and the R-3 High Density Residential District
for residential sues.
         2.   Lot Coverage.
            a.   Station and Midway Zones.
               i.   Minimum Lot Coverage. 60% of the net lot area. This lot
coverage may be reduced if a minimum of 40% of the lot is developed as improved
public open space.
               ii.   Maximum Lot Coverage. 85% of the net lot area. This lot
coverage may be increased to 100% for mixed use buildings.
            b.   Transition Zones. Same as applied in the B-1, Business Campus
District.
         3.   Building Height.
            a.   Minimum Height.
               i.   Station Zones: two stories and 30 feet.
               ii.   Midway Zones: 18 feet.
               iii.   Transitional Zones: none.
            b.   Maximum Height.
               i.   Station Zones: five stories or 60 feet, whichever is less,
except as is allowed through the conditional use permit process.
               ii.   Midway Zones: three stories or 40 feet, whichever is less,
except as is allowed through the conditional use permit process.
               iii.   Transitional Zones: same as applied in the B-1, Business
Campus District for non-residential uses and the R-3 High Density Residential
District for residential uses.
         4.   Sidewalks.
            a.   Station and Midway Zones.
               i.   Sidewalks not less than five feet in width shall be
constructed along the frontage of all public streets.
               ii.   Pedestrian scale lighting fixtures no greater than 15 feet
in height shall be provided along all sidewalks and walkways (public and
private) to provide ample lighting during nighttime hours.
               iii.   All sidewalks and walkways shall meet ADA requirements.
            b.   Transition Zones. Same as applied in the B-1, Business Campus
District for non-residential uses and the R-3 High Density Residential District
for residential uses.
   Subd. 6.   Design Standards.
         1.   Streetscapes.
            a.   Station and Midway Zones.
               i.   Street trees shall be planted by the developer along all
public rights-of-way. Street trees shall be planted at intervals of no more
than 40 feet. Tree species shall be selected that require minimal maintenance
and are commonly hardy and adaptive to urban environments.
               ii.   Pedestrian amenities such as benches, public art,
planters, trash receptacles, and the like shall be provided and located along
sidewalks and in landscaped areas, open spaces, and plazas.
               iii.   All new utilities shall be placed underground.
            b.   Transition Zones. Same as applied in the B-1, Business Campus
District for non-residential uses and the R-3 High Density Residential District
for residential uses.
         2.   Building Facades.
            a.   Station and Midway Zones.
               i.   The architectural style and materials of all buildings
shall be consistent with the guidelines of the City Downtown Design Standards.
Application of the standards shall follow the same procedure as in the Downtown
Design Standards-Transition Zone.
               ii.   All buildings shall provide a main entrance on the facade
of the building facing the transit station or streets leading to the transit
station.
               iii.   The main entrance of any building shall face the street.
The main entrance shall not be set back more than five feet from the front
property line, unless a public seating area or plaza is provided in front of
the building.
               iv.   Facades over 50 feet in length shall be divided into
shorter segments by means of facade modulation, repeating window patterns,
changes in materials, canopies, or awnings, varying roof lines, and/or other
architectural treatments.
               v.   The ground floor of a front commercial facade shall contain
a minimum of 50% glass.
               vi.   All buildings shall articulate the line between the ground
and upper levels with a cornice, canopy, balcony, arcade, or other visual
device.
               vii.   All structured parking is encouraged to be designed so
that the only openings at street level are those necessary to accommodate
vehicle ingress and egress, and pedestrian access to the building. All openings
are encouraged to be designed so that vehicles are not visible from the
sidewalk.
            b.   Transition Zones. Same as applied in the B-1, Business Campus
District for non-residential uses and the R-3 High Density Residential District
for residential uses.
         3.   Signage.
            a.   Station Zones.
               i.   Freestanding Signs. Freestanding signs, as defined by the
city sign ordinance, are expressly prohibited. Kiosks and public informational
signs placed and owned by the city are exempt from this provision.
               ii.   Projecting Signs. Projecting signs, as defined by the city
sign ordinance, including those which encroach upon public right-of-way, shall
be allowed, provided:
                  (a)   A clearance of not less than eight feet above surface
grade is provided;
                  (b)   The right-of-way encroachment does not exceed two feet;
and
                  (c)   The city determines that such sign shall not obstruct
the vision of drivers or detract from the visibility of traffic control
devices.
               iii.   Height. No signs shall extend higher than the height of
the ground story.
               iv.   Size. No facade sign shall exceed 25% of the ground floor
wall area. No other sign shall exceed 25 square feet in size. Signs may be
double-sided.
               v.   Design. All signs shall be complimentary to the principal
building in their use of color, shape, and material.
            c.   Transition Zones. Same as applied in the B-1, Business Campus
District for non-residential uses and the R-3 High Density Residential District
for residential uses.
SECTION 1005: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 1005.01 Accessory Buildings, Structures, and Uses.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to establish
provisions regulating the location, type, and dimensional standards for
accessory buildings, structures, and uses.
   Subd. 2.   Attached Structures. An attached structure/building (including
garage units) shall be considered an integral part of the principal building
and shall comply in all respects with the requirements of this chapter
applicable to the principal building. Attached accessory structures/buildings
shall meet all required principal building setbacks of the applicable zoning
district.
   Subd. 3.   Permitted Locations. Detached accessory buildings are permitted
in side yards and rear yards. They shall not be located closer than six feet to
the principal building unless approved by the Building Official following
submittal of plans showing a proposed firewall installation or other mitigation
measures.
         1.   Street and Lake Frontage. Detached accessory buildings shall not
be permitted in required or actual (in front of the front building line of the
principal structure) front yards except on properties having both street and
lake frontage, provided the accessory structure meets the required principal
structure setback from the right-of-way. Detached accessory structures may be
located in actual side or rear yards, provided the minimum setback outlined in
this subsection is provided from the side and rear property lines.
         2.   Commercial and Industrial Districts. Accessory structures shall
not be located in required or actual (in front of the front building line of
the principal structure) front yards without approval of a conditional use
permit. Accessory structures may not exceed the size of the principal
structure, except for in the I-3 Innovation Industrial Zoning District.
   Subd. 4.   Prohibited Locations. Except as may be specifically provided, no
accessory use, building, structure, or equipment shall be located in any
required or actual (in front of the front building line of the principal
structure) front yard, within a drainage and utility easement unless approved
by the Zoning Administrator and Public Works Department, or below the ordinary
high water mark of a public water or wetland.
   Subd. 5.   Dimensional Limits. Attached and detached accessory buildings are
subject to the dimensional limits set forth as follows or as specified under
the specific zoning district.
Table 24
 A R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5
Table 24
            A         R-1       R-2       R-3        R-4          R-5
Accessory
building    1,200 sq. 1,200 sq. 1,200 sq. 10% of Lot 10% of Lot   1,200 sq.
total       ft        ft.       ft.       Area       Area         ft.
combined
area:
Max height  17' or    17' or    17' or    17' or     17' or house 17' or house
attached    house     house     house     house      height       height
garage:     height    height    height    height
Max height
detached
garage /    24'       24'       24'       24'        24'          24'
structure
(to peak):
Max side
wall height
of detached 12'       12'       12'       12'        12'          12'
accessory
structure:
Max size    Shall not Shall not Shall not                         Shall not
attached    exceed    exceed    exceed                            exceed
garage:     footprint footprint footprint                         footprint of
            of home   of home   of home                           home
Rear yard
setback
detached    5'        5'        5'        10'        5'           5'
accessory
structure:
Side yard
setback
detached    5'        5'        5'        10'        5'           5'
accessory
structure:
Total #
detached
accessory   2         2         2         2          1            2
buildings
per lot:
 
         1.   Within the A, R-1, R-2, and R-5 Zoning Districts, the maximum
area of all accessory buildings (except for attached garages) shall be limited
to a combined total area of 1,200 square feet. Properties that have a dwelling
without an attached garage shall be limited to a total combined area of 1,800
square feet of detached accessory buildings.
         2.   Detached accessory buildings shall have not more than a 12:12
roof pitch. Detached accessory buildings that are larger than 200 square feet
shall have not less than a four-to-12 roof pitch.
         3.   Detached accessory buildings shall be reviewed by the Zoning
Administrator and/or the Building Official and must receive an administrative
permit before they are constructed or moved onto property. The Zoning
Administrator or designee shall review the site plan and construction drawings
to determine compliance with this subsection and other applicable ordinances,
laws, and regulations.
         4.   In commercial and industrial districts, accessory buildings and
trash enclosures shall be of similar type, quality, and appearance as the
principal structure. Said structures shall not exceed 17 feet in height unless
expressly permitted elsewhere in the Code and shall be setback a minimum of 20
feet from side and rear property lines, except that side and rear yard setback
requirements may be reduced to ten feet for accessory structures and uses on
lots that do not abut residentially zoned or used property.
   Subd. 6.   Time of Construction. No accessory building shall be constructed
on any lot prior to the time of construction of the principal building to which
it is accessory.
   Subd. 7.   Building Materials. All accessory buildings must be constructed
of materials deemed sufficiently durable for residential construction, subject
to the discretion of the Building Official.
         1.   Metal corrugated siding or permanent sheet metal shall hereby be
prohibited in all zoning districts.
         2.   Canvas, fabric, or plastic sheet covered structures and accessory
buildings are prohibited in all residential zoning districts with the following
exceptions.
            a.   Permanent and semi-permanent screen tents and fabric-covered
gazebos are permitted for recreational use, but not for storage, provided that
they are located upon an approved deck or patio and are kept in good repair.
            b.   Transparent screen tents, designed to protect against insects,
are permitted to be located directly on the grass from March to October,
provided that they observe the correct accessory structure setbacks and are
used for recreational purposes and not for storage.
         3.   Carports are permitted in any zoning district. They must be
constructed as a permanent structure and be covered with the same fascia and
soffit materials as the rest of the structure.
         4.   Temporary tent structures of any size will be allowed for, but
not limited to, family gatherings, weddings, and special occasions/events.
Temporary accessory structures shall not be erected for more than four
consecutive days and shall not be erected again for a period of three days
thereafter. Use of a temporary tent structure beyond these parameters will
require a temporary use permit. Temporary tent structures shall comply with the
required minimum setbacks and shall be anchored to the ground in compliance
with all applicable Building Codes.
         5.   All accessory buildings larger than 200 square feet shall be
constructed with a design and exterior materials that architecturally match the
principal structure on the lot.
   Subd. 8.   Mailbox. Any person installing or replacing a mailbox and post
shall place the mailbox at a vertical height between 45 and 48 inches above the
street level to the bottom edge of the mailbox, and at a horizontal length of
36 inches from the curb or edge of the road to the vertical post.
§ 1005.02 Antennas.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to establish
predictable, balanced regulations for the siting and screening of wireless
communications equipment in order to accommodate the growth of wireless
communicating systems within the city while protecting the public against any
adverse impacts on the city’s aesthetic resources and the public welfare. The
provisions of this subsection are intended to maximize the use of existing
towers, structures, and buildings to accommodate new wireless telecommunication
antennas in order to minimize the number of towers needed to serve the
community or area.
   Subd. 2.   General Standards. The following standards shall apply to all
personal wireless service, public utility, microwave, radio and television
broadcast transmitting, radio and television receiving, satellite dish, and
short-wave radio transmitting and receiving antenna.
         1.   All obsolete and unused antenna shall be removed within 12 months
of cessation of operation at the site, unless an exemption is granted by the
Zoning Administrator.
         2.   All antennas shall be in compliance with all City Building and
Electrical Code requirements and as applicable shall require related permits.
         3.   Structural design, mounting, and installation of the antenna
shall be in compliance with manufacturer’s specifications and, as may be
necessary, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, shall be verified and
approved by a structural engineer.
         4.   When applicable, written authorization for antenna installation
shall be provided by the property owner.
         5.   No advertising message shall be affixed to the antenna structure.
         6.   The height of the antenna shall be the minimum necessary to
function satisfactorily, as verified by an electrical engineer or other
appropriate professional.
         7.   Antennas shall not be artificially illuminated unless required by
law or by a governmental agency to protect the public’s health and safety.
         8.   When applicable, proposals to erect new antenna shall be
accompanied by any required federal, state, or local agency licenses.
         9.   If a new tower is to be constructed, it shall be designed
structurally, electrically, and in all respects, to accommodate both the
applicant’s antennas and comparable antennas for at least one additional user,
including, but not limited to, other cellular communication companies, local
police, fire and ambulance companies. Towers shall be designed to allow for
future re-arrangement of antennas upon the tower and to accept antennas mounted
at varying heights.
         10.   Antenna support structures under 200 feet in height shall be
painted a non-contrasting color consistent with the surrounding area, such as
blue, gray, or brown to reduce visual impact.
         11.   Except as may be applicable in cases where a conditional use
permit is required, antennas and support structures for federally licensed
amateur radio stations and used in the amateur radio service are exempt from
items 3, 6, and 9 above, and must comply with item 12 below.
         12.   Amateur radio towers must be installed in accordance with the
instructions furnished by the manufacturer of that tower model. Because of the
experimental nature of the amateur radio service, antennas mounted on such a
tower may be modified or changed at any time so long as the published allowable
load on the tower is not exceeded and the structure of the tower remains in
accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications.
   Subd. 3.   Tower Design. Wireless communication towers shall be of a
monopole design unless the City Council determines that an alternative design
requested by the applicant would better blend into the surrounding environment.
This provision does not apply to amateur radio towers or commercial and public
radio or television towers.
   Subd. 4.   Co-Location Requirement. A proposal for a new tower shall not be
approved unless the Zoning Administrator finds that the antennas cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower, building, or structure within a
one mile search radius (one-half mile search radius for towers under 100 feet
in height) of the proposed tower due to one or more of the following reasons.
         1.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing or approved tower, building, or structure as documented by a qualified
and licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot
be reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned for equivalent
equipment at a reasonable cost.
         2.   The planned equipment would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or
building as documented by a qualified engineer and interference cannot be
prevented at a reasonable cost.
         3.   Existing or approved towers, buildings, or structures within the
search radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to
function reasonably as documented by a qualified engineer.
         4.   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
antennas upon an existing or approved tower or structure.
         5.   Existing or approved towers, buildings, or other structures do
not exist in the service area, or do not meet the needs of the user.
Documentation shall be provided at the time of application clearly
demonstrating why existing structures do not meet the needs of the users.
         6.   The applicant shall demonstrate that a good faith effort to co-
locate on existing towers or structures was made, but an agreement could not be
reached.
   Subd. 5.   Accessory Antennas. The following standards shall apply to all
accessory use antennas, including radio and television receiving antennas,
satellite dishes, TVRO’s, three and one-half meters or less in diameter, short-
wave dispatching antennas, and/or those necessary for the operation of
electronic equipment including radio receivers, federally licensed amateur
radio stations and television receivers. amateur short-wave radio transmitting
and receiving antennas. Antennas that are accessory to the principal use of
property are permitted accessory uses in all zoning districts, provided they
meet the following conditions.
         1.   Height. A ground-mounted accessory antenna shall not exceed 20
feet in height from ground level.
         2.   Yards. Accessory antennas shall not be located within public or
private utility and drainage easements. Accessory antennas shall not be located
within the required front yard or side yard, except for wall-mounted antennas
less than 24 inches in dimension, wall-mounted to a principal building, and the
setback encroachment does not exceed two feet.
         3.   Roofs. If vegetation or obstructions interfere with satellite
signals at a location in any allowable placement area, the accessory antenna
may be placed on the roof of any authorized structure on the premises.
         4.   Setbacks. The height of the accessory antenna attached to an
antenna support structure may exceed five feet above the peak of the roof only
by conditional use permit. Accessory antennas shall not be located within five
feet of any lot lines of adjoining lots or within a drainage or utility
easement.
         5.   More Than One. The installation of more than one support
structure per property shall require the approval of a conditional use permit.
         6.   Building Permits. A building permit shall be required for the
installation of any accessory antenna requiring a conditional use permit.
Building permit applications shall be accompanied by a site plan, and
structural components data for the accessory antenna, including details of
anchoring. The Building Official must approve the plans before installation.
         7.   Lightning Protection. Each accessory antenna shall be grounded to
protect against natural lightning strikes in conformance with the National
Electrical Code as adopted by the city.
         8.   Electrical Code. Accessory antenna electrical equipment and
connections shall be designed and installed in conformance with the National
Electrical Code as adopted by the city.
         9.   Color/Content. Accessory antennas shall be of a neutral color and
any lettering or scenes contained on said device qualifying it as a sign shall
be subject to the City Sign Code.
   Subd. 6.   Personal Wireless Service Antennas.
         1.   Agricultural and Residential District Standards.
            a.   Antennas Located upon a Public Structure or Existing Tower.
Personal wireless service antenna located upon a public structure or co-located
on an existing tower shall require administrative approval and shall comply
with the following standards.
               i.   The applicant shall demonstrate by providing a coverage/
interference analysis and capacity analysis prepared by a certified engineer
that location of the antennas as proposed is necessary to meet the frequency
reuse and spacing needs of the personal wireless system and to provide adequate
portable personal wireless service coverage and capacity to areas which cannot
be adequately served by locating the antennas in a less restrictive district.
               ii.   Transmitting, receiving, and switching equipment shall be
housed within an existing structure whenever possible. If a new equipment
building is necessary for transmitting, receiving and switching equipment, it
shall be situated in the rear yard of the principal use and shall be screened
from view by landscaping where appropriate.
               iii.   A building permit is issued in compliance with subsection
1002.03.
            b.   Antennas Not Located upon a Public Structure or Existing
Tower. Personal wireless service antenna not located upon a public structure or
co-located upon an existing tower shall require the processing of a conditional
use permit and shall comply with the following standards.
               i.   The applicant shall demonstrate by providing a coverage/
interference analysis and capacity analysis prepared by a certified engineer
that location of the antennas as proposed is necessary to meet the frequency
reuse and spacing needs of the personal wireless service system and to provide
adequate portable personal wireless service coverage and capacity to areas
which cannot be adequately served by locating the antennas in a less
restrictive district.
               ii.   If no existing, non-residential structure which meets the
height requirements for the antennas is available for mounting purposes, the
antennas may be mounted on a monopole tower provided that:
                  (a)   The pole shall not exceed 75 feet in height; and
                  (b)   The setback of the pole from the nearest residential
structure is not less than the height of the antenna. Exceptions to such
setback may be granted if a qualified structural engineer specifies in writing
that any collapse of the pole will occur within a lesser distance under all
foreseeable circumstances.
               iii.   Transmitting, receiving, and switching equipment shall be
housed within an existing structure whenever possible. If a new equipment
building is necessary for transmitting, receiving, and switching equipment, it
shall be situated in the rear yard of the principal use and shall be screened
from view by landscaping where appropriate.
               iv.   At the discretion of the city, a security fence not
greater than eight feet in height with a maximum capacity opacity of 50% shall
be provided around the support structure.
               v.   The conditional use permit provisions of subsection 1002.08
are considered and determined to be satisfied.
         2.   Business District Standards.
            a.   Antennas Located Upon a Public Structure or Existing Tower.
Personal wireless service antenna located upon a public structure or co-located
on an existing tower shall require administrative approval and shall comply
with the following standards.
               i.   Transmitting, receiving, and switching equipment shall be
housed within an existing structure whenever possible. If a new equipment
building is necessary for transmitting, receiving, and switching equipment, it
shall be situated in the rear yard of the principal use and shall be screened
from view by landscaping where appropriate.
               ii.   Antennas mounted on public structures shall not extend
more than 15 feet above the structural height of the structure to which they
are attached.
               iii.   Building-mounted antennas shall not exceed more than 15
feet above the roof, and shall be set back at least five feet from the roof
edge.
               iv.   Wall- or facade-mounted antennas may not extend more than
five feet above the cornice line and must be constructed of a material or color
which matches the exterior of the building.
               v.   A building permit is issued in compliance with the
provisions of subsection 1002.03.
            b.   Antennas Not Located Upon a Public Structure or Existing
Tower. Personal wireless service antennas not located upon a public structure
or co-located upon an existing tower shall require the processing of a
conditional use permit and shall comply with the following standards.
               i.   The applicant shall demonstrate, by providing a coverage/
interference analysis and capacity analysis prepared by a certified engineer,
that location of the antennas as proposed is necessary to meet the frequency
reuse and spacing needs of the personal wireless service system and to provide
adequate portable personal wireless service coverage and capacity to areas
which cannot be adequately served by locating the antennas in a less
restrictive district.
               ii.   If no existing structure which meets the height
requirements for the antennas is available for mounting purposes, the antennas
may be mounted on a monopole tower, provided that:
                  (a)   The pole shall not exceed 75 feet in height; and
                  (b)   The setback of the pole from the nearest residential
structure is not less than the height of the antenna. Exceptions to such
setback may be granted if a qualified structural engineer specifies in writing
that any collapse of the pole will occur within a lesser distance under all
foreseeable circumstances.
               iii.   Transmitting, receiving, and switching equipment shall be
housed within an existing structure whenever possible. If a new equipment
building is necessary for transmitting, receiving, and switching equipment, it
shall be situated in the rear yard of the principal use and shall be screened
from view by landscaping where appropriate.
               iv.   At the discretion of the city, a security fence not
greater than eight feet in height with a maximum opacity of 50% shall be
provided around the support structure.
               v.   The conditional use permit provisions of subsection 1002.08
are considered and determined to be satisfied.
         3.   Industrial District Standards.
            a.   Antennas Located Upon a Public Structure or Existing Tower.
Personal wireless service antennas located upon a public structure or co-
located on an existing tower structure shall require administrative approval
and shall comply with the following standards.
               i.   Building-mounted antennas shall not exceed more than 15
feet above the roof, and shall be set back at least five feet from the roof
edge.
               ii.   Wall- or facade-mounted antennas may not extend more than
five feet above the cornice line and must be constructed of a material or color
which matches the exterior of the building.
               iii.   A building permit may be issued in compliance with the
provisions of subsection 1002.03.
            b.   Antennas Not Located Upon a Public Structure or Existing
Tower. Personal wireless service antennas not located upon a public structure
or co-located upon an existing tower shall require administrative approval and
shall comply with the following standards.
               i.   If no existing structure which meets the height
requirements for mounting the antennas, the antennas may be mounted upon a
monopole tower not exceeding 150 feet in height. The tower shall be located on
a parcel having a dimension equal to the height of the tower measured between
the base of the tower located nearest the property line and said property line,
unless a structural engineer specifies in writing that the collapse of the
tower will occur within a lesser distance under all foreseeable circumstances.
               ii.   A building permit is issued in compliance with the
provisions of subsection 1002.03.
            c.   Temporary Mobile Towers. Personal wireless service antennas
located upon a temporary mobile tower used on an interim basis until a
permanent site is constructed shall require administrative approval and shall
comply with the following standards.
               i.   Temporary mobile towers are exempt from co-location and
permanent tower structure design standards contained in Subd. 3 and Subd. 4
above.
               ii.   The termination date of the permit shall not exceed 120
days. Temporary mobile towers located on a site longer than 120 days shall
require administrative approval.
               iii.   Guyed towers are prohibited.
               iv.   Mobile units shall have a minimum tower design wind load
of 80 mph, or be set back from all structures a distance equal to the height of
the tower.
               v.   All towers shall be protected against unauthorized
climbing.
               vi.   The height of the tower shall not exceed 90 feet.
   Subd. 7.   Satellite Dishes.
         1.   Agricultural District and Residential District Standards. Single
satellite dish TVROs greater than two meters in diameter may be allowed as a
conditional use within the Agricultural District and residential zoning
districts of the city and shall comply with the following standards.
            a.   All accessory use provisions of subsection 1005.01 are
satisfactorily met.
            b.   The lot on which the satellite dish antenna is located shall
be of sufficient size to assure that an obstruction-free receive window can be
maintained within the limits of the property ownership.
            c.   Except where the antenna is screened by a structure exceeding
the antenna height, landscape buffering and screening shall be maintained on
all sides of the satellite dish antenna in a manner in which growth of the
landscape elements will not interfere with the receive window.
            d.   The satellite dish antenna is not greater than three and one-
half meters in diameter.
            e.   The conditional use permit provisions of subsection 1002.08
are considered and determined to be satisfied.
         2.   Business District Standards. Satellite dish antennas within the
business zoning districts of the city shall be limited to those listed as
permitted accessory uses in the applicable zoning district subject to the
provisions of subsection 1005.01.
         3.   Industrial District Standards. Commercial, private, and public
satellite dish transmitting or receiving antennas in excess of three and one-
half meters may be allowed as a conditional use within industrial districts of
the city and shall comply with the following standards.
            a.   All accessory use provisions of subsection 1005.01 are
satisfactorily met.
            b.   The lot on which the satellite dish antenna is located shall
be of sufficient size to assure that an obstruction free transmit-receive
window or windows can be maintained within the limits of the property
ownership.
            c.   Except where the antenna is screened by a structure exceeding
the antenna height, landscape buffering, and screening shall be maintained on
all sides of the satellite dish antenna in a manner in which growth of the
landscape elements will not interfere with the transmit-receive window.
            d.   The conditional use permit provisions of subsection 1002.08
are considered and determined to be satisfied.
   Subd. 8.   Commercial and public radio and television transmitting and
public utility microwave antennas shall comply with the following standards.
         1.   Such antenna shall be considered an allowed conditional use
within the I-1 and I-2 Districts of the city and shall be subject to the
regulations and requirements of subsection 1002.08.
         2.   The antennas, transmitting towers, or array of towers shall be
located on a continuous parcel having a dimension equal to the height of the
antenna, transmitting tower, or array of towers measured between the base of
the antenna or tower located nearest a property line and said property line,
unless a registered structural engineer specifies in writing that the collapse
of any antenna or tower will occur within a lesser distance under all
foreseeable circumstances.
         3.   Unless the antenna is mounted on an existing structure, at the
discretion of the city, a fence not greater than eight feet in height with a
maximum opacity of 50% shall be provided around the support structure and other
equipment.
   Subd. 9.   Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Users. The purpose of this
subsection is to establish predictable and balanced regulations for the siting
and placement of telecommunication facilities, including wireless equipment
within public rights-of-way under the jurisdiction of the city. The city holds
the rights-of-way within its geographical boundaries as an asset in trust for
its citizens. The city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good
repair and free from unnecessary encumbrances. The uncontrolled and unregulated
placement of telecommunication equipment in the right-of-way may cause
obstruction to pedestrian and vehicular traffic; thereby endangering the public
health and safety. This subsection establishes the minimum requirements for
locating telecommunication facilities within the city’s public rights-of-way in
a manner that does not jeopardize the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
         1.   Administrative Permit Required. The placement of any
telecommunication equipment in the public right-of-way shall require an
administrative permit subject to the provisions of subsection 1002.05 and shall
be processed according to the following.
            a.   Prior to the installation of any telecommunication equipment,
the owner of such service shall file with the city, maps, site plans, and other
pertinent information as deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator for
review of the proposed project.
            b.   All wireless communication poles, antennas, radio receivers,
and transmitters shall comply with the following standards.
               i.   Antennas and radio transmitter and receiver devices shall
be permitted on all electrical transmission towers, and on utility and light
poles that do not exceed 60 feet in height.
               ii.   The replacement or extension of a utility or light pole
shall be permitted provided the pole or extension does not exceed 60 feet in
height.
               iii.   Antennas and radio transmitter and receiver devices shall
not extend horizontally more than 24 inches from the pole.
               iv.   An application to locate wireless antennas and equipment
in the right-of-way shall not be approved unless the applicant demonstrates
that the antennas cannot be accommodated on an existing tower, building, or
structure located outside of a public right-of-way within a one-half mile
search radius.
               v.   Wireless antennas and equipment located in the right-of-way
abutting residentially zoned property shall be prohibited, unless the applicant
demonstrates by providing a coverage or capacity analysis prepared by a
professional engineer that location of the antennas as proposed is necessary to
meet the frequency reuse and spacing needs of the wireless system and to
provide adequate coverage and capacity to areas which cannot be adequately
served by locating the antennas in the right-of-way abutting a less restrictive
zoning district.
               vi.   Radio transmitters and receivers attached to an existing
utility pole or light standard shall be exempt from this subsection, provided
the following conditions are met.
                  (a)   Transmitter and receiver devices do not exceed two
cubic feet.
                  (b)   Transmitter and receiver devices do not exceed more
than 18 inches from the pole or any existing attachments to the pole.
                  (c)   Any antennas do not extend more than 24 inches from the
equipment.
                  (d)   There is not ground-mounted equipment or structures.
               vii.   All ground-mounted accessory equipment shall be set back
at least 50 feet from the nearest principal residential structure.
               viii.   All ground-mounted equipment shall not exceed five feet
in height or 20 square feet in size, and shall be located as far as possible,
but at least five feet from the road surface.
               ix.   In addition to receiving the necessary permits and
approvals, the city may require the applicant to enter into an encroachment
agreement.
            c.   Upon determining compliance with the provisions of the City
Code and Comprehensive Plan, the City Engineer shall issue an administrative
permit for the installation and operation of any structure or equipment.
            d.   The City Engineer may deny a permit or attach conditions to
the permit approval to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, to
prevent interference with the safety and convenience of ordinary travel over
the right-of-way, or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its users.
The City Engineer may consider one or more of the following factors:
               i.   The extent to which right-of-way space where the permit is
sought is available;
               ii.   The competing demands for the particular space in the
right-of-way;
               iii.   The availability of other locations in the right-of-way
or in other rights-of-way for the equipment of the permit application;
               iv.   The preservation of the right-of-way for uses that, due to
their physical nature, do not have the option of locating on private property;
and
               v.   The applicability of ordinances or other regulations of the
right-of-way that affect location of equipment in the right-of-way.
            e.   The decision to either grant or deny a permit may be appealed
to the City Council within ten days after the Zoning Administrator’s written
decision. The appeal shall be processed under the rules set forth in subsection
1002.13
            f.   The permittee shall notify the City Engineer upon completion
of the work specified in the permit.
   Subd. 10.   Additional Submittal Requirement. In addition to the information
required elsewhere in this Section, development applications for towers,
excluding amateur radio towers, shall include the following supplemental
information:
         1.   A letter of intent committing the tower owner and their
successors to allow the shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in
writing to meet reasonable terms and conditions for shared use; and
         2.   A copy of the relevant portions of a signed lease which requires
the applicant to remove the tower and associated facilities when they are
abandoned, unused, or become hazardous shall be submitted to the city.
§ 1005.03 Building Relocation.
   Subd. 1.   Residential Structures. Residential structures may be moved into,
within, or out of the city limits, provided that any relocated residential
buildings comply with all ordinances of the city, including ordinances relating
to architectural design and materials.
   Subd. 2.   Process.
         1.   Prior to a structure being moved into, within, or out of the city
limits, the owner shall obtain a building permit and said permit shall be filed
with the city in conjunction with a performance security in an amount to be
determined annually by the City Council.
         2.   Structures in transit may be transported through the city,
provided that required permits are obtained prior to transportation of the
residential building or structure through the city. Residential buildings or
structures shall be moved between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., and the
route shall be approved by the City Engineer and Chief of Police.
   Subd. 3.   Performance Standards.
         1.   Upon relocation, the structure shall comply with the applicable
requirements of the State Building Code and this chapter.
         2.   A certificate of occupancy must be obtained from the city within
16 weeks of the date a residential structure is moved into or within the city
limits; provided, however, that the City Building Official may extend the 16-
week period if compliance with said requirement would result in unnecessary
hardship and such hardship is the result if inclement weather or other
unforeseen circumstances. If a certificate of occupancy is not obtained within
16 weeks, or by the end of any extended period, the city, in its sole
discretion, may draw down on the performance security and take whatever steps
it may deem necessary to bring said relocated residential building into
compliance with all ordinances of the city. In the event the city draws on the
performance standards in order to bring a relocated residential building into
compliance, a percentage of the total security shall be paid to the city as its
administrative fee.
         3.   The site of any residential building or other structure that is
moved out of the city limits must be backfilled to match existing grades with
suitable materials. The site shall be planted and reclaimed simultaneously with
the move of the structure. If the site is not backfilled, planted, and
reclaimed within one week of the date a residential building or other structure
is moved out of the city limits, the city, in its sole discretion, may draw
down on the letter of credit in order to backfill, plant, and reclaim the site.
In the event the city draws on the performance security in order to backfill,
plant and/or reclaim a site, a percentage of the total security shall be paid
to the city as its administrative fee.
   Subd. 4.   Performance Security. A performance security shall be provided to
the city as specified in subsection
1006.06 .
§ 1005.04 Essential Services.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to provide for the
installation of essential services such as telephone lines, pipelines, electric
transmission lines, substations, and accessories therewith in such a manner
that the health, safety, and welfare of the city will not be adversely
affected. Essential services shall also be installed in recognition of existing
and projected demands for such services.
   Subd. 2.   Application. This subsection shall not apply to radio and
wireless communication systems and facilities. Regulation of these uses and
activities are governed by subsection 1005.03.
   Subd. 3.   Administrative Permit Required.
         1.   All essential services such as, but not limited to, cable TV or
internet services, and telephone lines, pipelines, and structures for local
distribution, underground electric transmission lines and overhead electric
transmission lines and substations less than 35 KV, shall require an
administrative permit approved by the Zoning Administrator. Approval shall be
based upon the information furnished in the following procedural requirements.
            a.   Prior to the installation of any of the essential services
defined above, the owner of such service shall file with the City Engineer, all
maps and other pertinent information as deemed necessary by the City Engineer
for review of the proposed project.
            b.   The City Engineer shall document in writing the findings as to
the compliance of the proposed project with the Comprehensive Plan and City
Code provisions.
            c.   In considering applications for the placement of essential
services, as regulated in this subsection, the City Engineer shall consider the
effect of the proposed project upon the health, safety, and general welfare of
the city, as existing and as anticipated, and the effect of the proposed
project upon the Comprehensive Plan. Additionally, radio transmitters and
receivers accessory to an essential service may be located on existing utility
poles or light standards within public right-of-way provided the radio
transmitters and receivers comply with the following standards.
               i.   Radio transmitters and receivers located on a utility pole/
tower or light standard shall be at least 15 feet above grade.
               ii.   Radio transmitter and receiver devices shall not exceed 18
inches in length or width, or extend more than 18 inches from the pole.
Antennas may not extend more than 24 inches from the equipment.
               iii.   The applicant shall submit a map prior to issuance of a
permit showing the location of all proposed radio transmitters and receivers.
The map shall be accompanied by a list of all sites referenced by the closest
street address or property identification number. The list of sites must also
describe the type of pole to be used.
               iv.   The applicant shall notify the city of any changes to the
approved list prior to erecting or placing any additional equipment in the
right-of-way.
               v.   The applicant shall notify the city, at the time of permit
application, of any obstructions that would cause traffic to be re-routed or
stopped.
               vi.   In addition to receiving the necessary permits and
approvals, the city may require the applicant to enter into an encroachment
agreement.
            d.   Upon approval of the City Engineer, a permit for the
installation and operation of the applicant’s essential services shall be
issued. If the Engineer denies the permit, the applicant may appeal said
decision to the Board of Appeals and Adjustments under the rules and procedures
set forth in subsection
1002.13.
            e.   The City Engineer may deny a permit or attach conditions to
the permit approval to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, to
prevent interference with the safety and convenience of ordinary travel over
the right-of-way, or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its users.
The City Engineer may consider one or more of the following factors:
               i.   The extent to which right-of-way space where the permit is
sought is available;
               ii.   The competing demands for the particular space in the
right-of-way;
               iii.   The availability of other locations in the right-of-way
or in other rights-of-way for the equipment of the permit applicant; and
               iv.   The applicability of ordinance or other regulations of the
right-of-way that affect location of equipment in the right-of-way.
            f.   The permittee shall notify the City Engineer upon completion
of the work specified in the permit.
   Subd. 4.   Conditional Use Permit Required. The following require a
conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by
subsection
1002.08. Additionally, each request for a conditional use permit shall be
evaluated based upon the standards and criteria set forth in subsection
1006.07.
         1.   All transmission pipelines (i.e., pipelines not required for the
city local distribution network), and overhead and underground transmission and
substation lines in excess of 35 KV and up to 200 KV.
         2.   All poles and towers used exclusively for the placement of radio
receivers and transmitters. In addition to the conditional use permit standards
and criteria, poles and towers shall comply with the standards for personal
wireless service antennas set forth in subsection
1005.02.
   Subd. 5.   Performance Standards. Essential services shall be subject to the
following.
         1.   All distribution lines shall be underground.
         2.   Outdoor storage of materials or equipment shall be prohibited.
         3.   All poles and similar type structures shall be placed in the
public right-of- way or utility easement unless approved as an interim use
permit subject to subsection
1002.09.
         4.   All facilities shall be landscaped and screened to the extent
practical and applicable pursuant to subsection
1006.06.
         5.   The size and number of accessory buildings are to be minimized to
the extent possible and are to house only equipment directly related of the
operation of the facility in question.
         6.   The architectural appearance of all structures and buildings
shall be in harmony with the primary uses within the vicinity of the site.
§ 1005.05 Grading, Filling, and Excavating.
   Subd. 1.   Permit Required.
         1.   Except for city land grading, filling, and excavating operations,
and in cases where a grading and drainage plan for a private development has
been approved as part of a subdivision or other development plan approved by
the city, or as may be otherwise stipulated by this chapter, any person who
proposes to add landfill or extract sand, gravel, black dirt, or other natural
material from the land or grade land shall apply for a permit as specified
below.
 
Table 25
Cubic Yards of Landfill or Land to be Permit Requirement
Excavated/Graded
1 to 50 cubic yards                   MPCA storm water permit / no city permit
                                      MPCA storm water permit and
50 - 250 cubic yards                  administrative permit as provided in
                                      subsection 1002.05
Greater than 250 cubic yards          MPCA storm water permit and interim use
                                      permit as provided in subsection 1002.09
 
         2.   Notwithstanding the requirements of this subsection, no permit
will be required for depositing landfill or excavation/grading on a lot for
which a building permit has been issued for construction thereon provided that
there is compliance with this subsection, and such activity is in accordance
with an approved grading plan and/or building permit.
         3.   Excavations for agricultural purposes and gardening are exempt
from the requirements of this subsection.
         4.   Activities which qualify as mining operations shall be subject to
this subsection.
         5.   Except for mining activities, land filling and land excavation/
grading operations are an allowable activity within all zoning districts.
   Subd. 2.   Required Information. Any person desiring a permit hereunder
shall file an application on such forms as shall be provided by the Zoning
Administrator. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth by
City Council resolution and a copy of detailed written and graphic materials
fully explaining the proposed land filling or land excavation operation. The
number of copies of said maps and materials shall be determined by the Zoning
Administrator. The scale of such materials shall be the minimum necessary to
ensure legibility. The request shall be considered as being officially
submitted and complete when the applicant has submitted and complied with all
the required information as identified on the city’s permit, as applicable and
specified by the Zoning Administrator.
   Subd. 3.   Technical Reports. The Zoning Administrator shall immediately,
upon receipt of a completed application, as determined by preliminary staff
review, forward a copy thereof to the City Engineer and the City Building
Official. Where protected watersheds, floodplains, and/or protected wetlands
are in question, the State Department of Natural Resources, Army Corps of
Engineers, and County Soil and Water Conservation District shall also be
contacted. These technical advisors shall be requested to prepare reports, as
applicable, for the City Council and/or Zoning Administrator.
   Subd. 4.   Issuance of Permit. Upon receiving information and reports from
the city staff and other applicable agencies, as applicable, a public hearing
shall be scheduled before the Planning Commission which shall forward a
commendation to the City Council. The City Council shall take formal action on
the application and as to whether, and when, and under what conditions such
permit for a landfill or excavation/grading activity is to be issued to the
applicant.
   Subd. 5.   Conditions of Permit.
         1.   Landfill Operations.
            a.   Under no circumstances shall any landfill operation be
conducted or permitted if the contents of the landfill or any part thereof
shall consist of garbage, animal or vegetable refuse, poisons, contaminants,
chemicals, decayed material, filth, sewage, or similar septic or biologically
dangerous material deemed to be unsuitable by the city.
            b.   Unless expressly extended by permit, the hours of operation
shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
         2.   Land Excavation/Grading Operations.
            a.   An extractive use site development and restoration plan must
be developed, approved, and followed over the course of operation of the site.
The plan must address dust, noise, possible pollutant discharges, hours and
duration of operation, and anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations.
It must also identify actions to be taken during operation to mitigate adverse
environmental impacts, particularly erosion, and must clearly explain how the
site will be rehabilitated after extractive activities end.
            b.   The city, as a prerequisite to the granting of a permit, or
after a permit has been granted, may require the applicant to whom such permit
is issued, or the owner or user of the property on which the excavation/grading
is located to:
               i.   Properly fence the excavation;
               ii.   Slope the banks, and otherwise properly guard to keep the
excavation in such condition as not to be dangerous from caving or sliding
banks;
               iii.   Properly drain, fill in, or level the excavation, after
the extraction has been completed so as to render it usable, seeding where
required to avoid erosion and an unsightly mark on the landscape and to make
the same safe as the city shall require;
               iv.   Keep the excavation/grading within the limits for which
the particular permit is granted;
               v.   Remove excavated/graded material from the excavation, away
from the premises upon and along such highways, streets or other public ways as
the city shall order and direct; and
               vi.   Retain and store top soil from the site in question and to
utilize such materials in the restoration of the site.
            c.   Unless expressly extended by permit, the hours of operation
shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
   Subd. 6.   Security. The city shall require either the applicant or the
owner or user of the property on which the landfill or excavation/grading is
occurring to post a security in such form and sum as determined by the City
Attorney or City Council. The amount of the security shall be sufficient to
cover the city’s extraordinary cost and expense of repairing, from time to
time, any highways, streets or other public ways where such repair work is made
necessary by the special burden resulting from hauling and travel in
transporting fill or excavated material. The amount of the security shall also
be sufficient to ensure compliance with all requirements of this subsection,
and the particular permit, and to pay the expense the city may incur as a
result of the permit.
   Subd. 7.   Failure to Comply. The city may, for failure of any person to
comply with any requirement made of them in writing under the provisions of
such permit, as promptly as same can reasonably be done, proceed to cause said
requirement to be complied with, and the cost of such work shall be certified
as an assessment against the property whereon the landfill or excavation/
grading operation is located, or the city may, at its option, proceed to
collect such costs by an action against the person to whom such permit has been
issued, and their superiors if a bond exists. In the event that landfilling or
excavation/grading operations requiring a permit are commenced prior to city
review and approval, the city may require work stopped and all necessary
applications filed and processed. In such cases, application fees shall be
double the normal charge.
   Subd. 8.   Completion of Operation.
         1.   All landfill and excavation/grading operations shall be completed
within 180 days of the issuance of the permit. Upon completion, the permit
holder shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of the date of
completion. If additional time beyond the 180 days is needed for completion,
the permit holder may apply to the Zoning Administrator and, upon a
satisfactory showing of need, the Zoning Administrator may grant an extension
of time. If such extension is granted, it shall be for a definite period.
Extensions shall not be granted in cases where the permit holder fails to show
that good faith efforts were made to complete the landfill or excavation/
grading operation within 180 days and that failure to complete the operation
was due to circumstances beyond the permit holder’s control, such as shortage
of fill or excavated material, teamster’s strike, unusually inclement weather,
illness, or other such valid and reasonable excuse for non-completion. In the
event a request for an extension is denied, the permit holder shall be allowed
a reasonable time to comply with other provisions of this subsection relating
to grading, leveling, and seeding or sodding. What constitutes such “reasonable
time” shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator after inspecting the
premises.
         2.   At the completion of a landfill or excavation/grading operation,
the premises shall be graded, leveled, and seeded or sodded with grass. The
grade shall be such elevation with reference to any abutting street or public
way as the city shall prescribe in the permit. The site shall also conform to
such prerequisites as the city may determine with reference to storm water
drainage runoff and storm water passage or flowage so that the landfill or
excavation cannot become a source of, or an aggravation to, storm water
drainage conditions in the area. The Zoning Administrator shall inspect the
project following completion to determine if the applicant has complied with
the conditions required thereof. Failure of such compliance shall result in the
withholding of any building permits for the site, and notice of such
withholding shall be filed in the office of the County Recorder for the
purposes of putting subsequent purchasers on notice.
   Subd. 9.   Operations in Process. All landfill and excavation/grading
operations for which a permit has previously been issued shall terminate such
operations on the date specified by the permit.
   Subd. 10.   Erosion and Drainage.
         1.   Every applicant for a building permit, subdivision approval, or a
grading permit to allow land disturbing activities shall adhere to erosion
control measure standards and specifications contained in the Metropolitan
Council Publication Minnesota Urban Small Sites Best Management Practices (BMP)
Manual, as may be amended, or as approved by the City Engineer.
         2.   No land shall be developed and no use shall be permitted that
results in water runoff causing flooding, erosion, or deposit of sediment on
adjacent properties. Such runoff shall be properly channeled into a storm
drain, watercourse, ponding area, or other public facilities subject to the
review and approval of the City Engineer.
         3.   All residential, commercial, industrial, and institutional
developments shall satisfy the provisions of the city’s subdivision ordinance
in regard to storm water management.
         4.   In the case of all single-family lots, multiple-family lots,
business, industrial, and institutional developments, the drainage and erosion
control plans shall be subject to the City Engineer’s written approval. No
modification in grade and drainage flow through fill, cuts, erection of
retaining walls or other such actions shall be permitted until such plans have
been reviewed and received written approval from the City Engineer.
         5.   Proposed erosion control measures may be approved by the City
Engineer as part of grading plan review. Erosion control may be specified by
the City Engineer as part of a site survey for individual building permits.
Erosion control measures may also be specified by the City Engineer as needed
and deemed appropriate during the construction and post-construction periods
separate from the above.
         6.   All storm sewer inlets which are functioning during construction
shall be protected so that sediment laden water does not enter the conveyance
system without first being filtered or otherwise treated to remove sediment.
         7.   All on-site storm water conveyance channels shall be designed and
constructed to withstand the design volume of storm water with appropriate
stabilization to prevent scour and erosion. Erosion controls must be provided
at the outlets of all storm sewer pipes.
         8.   All temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control
practices shall be maintained and repaired to assure the continued performance
of their intended function.
         9.   The developer or the developer’s designated representative shall
be responsible for inspection and maintenance until such time as the final
improvements are approved by the City Engineer. The developer or the
developer’s designated representative shall maintain inspection records which
include the minimum following information:
            a.   Date and time of inspection;
            b.   Name of person performing inspection;
            c.   Rainfall amounts;
            d.   Deficiencies and maintenance needs identified during the
inspection;
            e.   Proposed corrective actions; and
            f.   Date of completion of corrective action.
         10.   Each site shall have graveled roads, access drives, and parking
areas of sufficient width and length to prevent sediment from being tracked
onto public or private roadways. Any sediment reaching a public or private road
shall be removed by street cleaning (not flushing) before the end of each
workday.
         11.   All disturbed ground left inactive for seven or more days shall
be stabilized by seeding or sodding or by mulching or covering or other
equivalent control measure approved by the City Engineer.
         12.   One or more temporary or permanent sedimentation basins shall be
constructed if:
            a.   More than ten acres are disturbed and drained to a single
point of discharge temporary sediment basins must be installed;
            b.   More than five acres are disturbed and drain to a special and/
or impaired water temporary sediment basin requirements described must be
installed; and/or
            c.   The site has sensitive features as determined by the Public
Works Director or designee or the potential of off-site impacts, then temporary
sediment basins must be installed to protect the resource.
         13.   Each temporary sedimentation basin shall meet the following
minimum criteria.
            a.   The basins must provide live storage for a calculated volume
of runoff from a two-year, 24-hour storm from each acre drained to the basin,
except that in no case shall the basin provide less than 1,800 cubic feet of
live storage from each acre drained to the basin; or where the calculation has
not been done, providing 3,600 cubic feet of live storage per acre drained to
the basin shall be provided for the entire drainage area of the temporary
basin.
            b.   Temporary basin outlets must be designed to prevent short-
circuiting and the discharge of floating debris.
            c.   The basin must be designed with the ability to allow complete
basin drawdown for maintenance activities, and must include a stabilized
emergency overflow to prevent failure of pond integrity.
            d.   The outlet structure must be designed to withdraw water from
the surface in order to minimize the discharge of pollutants, except that the
use of a surface withdrawal mechanism for discharge of the basin may be
temporarily suspended during frozen conditions.
            e.   Energy dissipation must be provided for the basin outlet.
            f.   Sediment basins must be situated outside of surface waters and
any buffer zones, and must be designed to avoid draining water from wetlands
unless a current and valid permit for wetland impact has been obtained in
advance.
            g.   The temporary basins must be constructed and made operational
prior to disturbance of ten acres, or five acres if discharging to a special
and/or impaired.
            h.   When site restrictions do not allow for a temporary sediment
basin, equivalent measures such as smaller basins, check dams, and vegetated
buffer strips can be included.
            i.   Each sedimentation basin shall have at least one meter of
depth and constructed in accordance with accepted design specifications.
Sediment shall be removed to maintain a depth of one meter. The basin discharge
rate shall also be sufficiently low as to not cause erosion along the discharge
channel or the receiving water.
         14.   For sites not required to install temporary sediment basins,
silt fences, or equivalent control measures shall be placed along all side
slope and down slope sides of the site. If a channel or area of concentrated
runoff passes through the site, silt fences shall be placed along the channel
edges to reduce sediment reaching the channel. The use of silt fences or
equivalent control measures must include a maintenance and inspection schedule.
         15.   All temporary erosion control devices, including silt fence,
gravel, hay bales or other measures shall be removed from the construction site
by the applicant and properly disposed of or recycled. This removal and
disposal must occur within 30 days of the establishment of permanent vegetative
cover on the disturbed area.
         16.   Water pumped from the site shall be treated by temporary
sedimentation basins, grit chambers, sand filters, upflow chambers, hydro-
cyclones, swirl concentrators or other appropriate controls as appropriate.
Water may not be discharged in a manner that causes erosion or flooding of the
site or receiving channels of a wetland. All dewatering shall be in accordance
with all applicable county, state, and federal rules and regulations. State
Department of Natural Resources regulations regarding appropriate permits shall
also be strictly adhered to.
         17.   All waste and unused building materials (including garbage,
debris, cleaning wastes, waste water, toxic materials, or hazardous materials)
shall be properly disposed of off-site and not allowed to be carried by runoff
into a receiving channel or storm sewer system.
         18.   Unless approved by the City Engineer, the top of the foundation
and garage floor of all structures shall be at least 18 inches above the grade
of the crown of the street.
         19.   No soil or dirt piles containing more than ten cubic yards of
material shall be located with a down-slope drainage length of less than 25
feet from the toe of the pile to a roadway or drainage channel. If remaining
for more than seven days, they shall be stabilized by mulching, vegetative
cover, tarps, or other means. Erosion from piles that will be in existence for
less than seven days shall be controlled by placing silt fence barriers or
other erosion control measures as approved by the City Engineer around the
pile. In-street utility repair or construction soil or dirt storage piles
located closer than 25 feet of a roadway or drainage channel must be covered
with tarps or suitable alternative control if exposed for more than seven days,
and the storm drain inlets must be protected with appropriate filtering
barriers.
         20.   The applicant shall give consideration to reducing the need for
storm water management facilities by incorporating the use of natural
topography and land cover such as wetlands, ponds, natural swales, and
depressions as they exist before development to the degree that they can
accommodate the additional flow of water without compromising the integrity or
quality of the wetland or pond. The development shall minimize impact to
significant natural features. Review the site for steep slopes, wetlands,
wooded areas of significance, rare and endangered species habitat, greenways,
or parks and open space. These areas should not be developed.
         21.   The city’s Building Official or City Engineer may issue stop
work orders for any violation of this chapter.
§ 1005.06 Model Homes/Temporary Real Estate Offices.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to provide for the
erection of model homes and temporary real estate offices in new subdivisions
without adversely affecting the character of surrounding residential
neighborhoods or creating a general nuisance. As model homes represent a unique
temporary commercial use, special consideration must be given to the peculiar
problems associated with them and special standards must be applied to ensure
reasonable compatibility with their surrounding environment.
   Subd. 2.   Procedure. The erection of a model home(s) and temporary real
estate office(s) shall require a temporary use permit.
   Subd. 3.   Special Requirements.
         1.   Model homes and temporary real estate offices shall be allowed as
provided for in the applicable zoning district in which they are located.
         2.   Model homes and temporary real estate offices shall be located
near the front of the project site for ease of access and visibility from
public streets.
         3.   Paved (asphalt) temporary parking facilities equal to four spaces
per model home dwelling unit or temporary real estate office shall be provided.
The overall design and drainage of the temporary parking facility shall be
subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
         4.   Model homes and temporary real estate offices shall not be issued
a temporary occupancy permit until such time as the first asphalt lift is
installed on streets that will be used to access the facility.
         5.   Access from a temporary parking facility onto a local,
residential street shall be minimized. Where this requirement is physically
impractical, access shall be directed away from residential neighborhoods to
the greatest extent possible.
         6.   No model home or temporary real estate office shall incorporate
outside lighting which creates a nuisance due to glare or intensity, as
provided for in subsection 1006.06.
         7.   All model home and temporary real estate office signage shall
comply with the sign regulations as contained in Chapter 13 of the City Code.
         8.   The temporary use permit shall terminate three years from its
date of issuance or upon such time as 85% of the development is completed,
whichever occurs first.
         9.   No permanent residential occupancy permit shall be issued for a
model home until such time as the structure has been fully converted to a
residence. Such conversion shall include, but not be limited to, parking lot
restoration and the removal of signage and lighting.
         10.   The restoration of all temporary parking areas with appropriate
landscaping shall be completed by the end of the next growing season.
         11.   All criteria for temporary use consideration but not procedural
requirements, as contained in subsection 1002.10 shall be considered and
satisfactorily met.
§ 1005.07 Recreational Vehicles.
   Subd. 1.   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational equipment and vehicles may be
stored in the front, side, or rear yards subject to the following standards.
         1.   Parking for recreational vehicles must be on surfaces that meet
the requirements of subsection 1006.03. All parking pads must meet the
surfacing material requirements for the type of yard that they are located in.
         2.   All front yard storage must be set back 15 feet from the street
curb, and storage shall not encroach on any sidewalk.
         3.   Storage shall not occur in a required parking stall.
         4.   The designated storage area shall maintain at least a five-foot
setback from side or rear property lines.
   Subd. 2.   Tents, boats, and recreational vehicles shall not be used for
residential dwelling purposes. No tent, boat, or recreational camping vehicle
shall at any time be used as living quarters, temporarily or permanently.
Tents, playhouses, or similar structures may be used for play or recreational
purposes.
   Subd. 3.   No recreational camping vehicle shall be placed upon any vacant
lot within the limits of the city.
§ 1005.08 Alternative Energy Systems.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. It is the goal of the city to provide a sustainable
quality of life for the city’s residents, making careful and effective use of
available natural, human, and economic resources and ensuring that resources
exist to maintain and enhance the quality of life for future residents. In
accordance with that goal, the city finds that it is in the public interest to
encourage alternative energy systems that have a positive impact on energy
production and conservation while not having an adverse impact on the
community. Therefore, the purposes of this subsection include:
         1.   To promote rather than restrict development of alternative energy
sources by removing regulatory barriers and creating a clear regulatory path
for approving alternative energy systems;
         2.   To create a livable community where development incorporates
sustainable design elements such as resource and energy conservation and use of
renewable energy;
         3.   To protect and enhance air quality, limit the effects of climate
change, and decrease use of fossil fuels; and
         4.   To encourage alternative energy development in locations where
the technology is viable and environmental, economic, and social impacts can be
mitigated.
   Subd. 2.   Geothermal Systems.
         1.   Zoning Districts. Geothermal systems in accordance with the
standards in this subsection are allowed as a permitted administrative use in
all zoning districts.
         2.   Standards.
            a.   System Requirements.
               i.   Only closed loop geothermal systems utilizing heat transfer
fluids as defined in subsection
1001.02 are permitted. Open loop geothermal systems are not permitted.
               ii.   Geothermal systems in public waters may be permitted in
business, industrial, or R-3 Districts as an interim use in accordance with
subsection
1002.09 subject to approval from the State Department of Natural Resources.
               iii.   Geothermal systems in water bodies owned or managed by
the city may be permitted in business, industrial or R-3 Districts as an
interim use in accordance with subsection 1002.09 subject to approval from the
State Department of Natural Resources.
            b.   Setbacks.
               i.   All components of geothermal systems including pumps,
borings, and loops shall be set back at least five feet from interior side lot
lines and at least ten feet from rear lot lines.
               ii.   Above ground equipment associated with geothermal systems
shall not be installed in the front yard of any lot and shall meet all required
setbacks for the applicable zoning district.
            c.   Easements. Geothermal systems shall not encroach on public
drainage, utility roadway, or trail easements.
            d.   Noise. Geothermal systems shall comply with State Pollution
Control Agency standards outlined in M.S. Chapter 7030, as it may be amended
from time to time.
            e.   Screening. Geothermal systems are considered mechanical
equipment and subject to the requirements of subsection
1006.06.
         3.   Safety. Geothermal systems shall meet the requirements of the
State Building Code.
         4.   Abandonment. If the geothermal system remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for a continuous period of one year, the system shall be deemed to
be abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove the
abandoned system at their expense after a demolition permit has been obtained
in accordance with the following: the heat pump and external mechanical
equipment shall be removed.
         5.   Permits. A building permit shall be obtained for any geothermal
system prior to installation.
   Subd. 3.   Solar Energy Systems.
         1.   Roof- or Building-Mounted Solar Energy Systems. Systems which are
accessory to the principal land use, designed to supply energy for the
principal use. Roof- or building-mounted solar energy systems shall be
regulated as follows.
            a.   Roof- or building-mounted solar energy systems are permitted
accessory uses in all districts in which buildings are permitted.
            b.   All roof- or building-mounted solar energy systems shall meet
the standards of the State Building Code and the owner or contractor shall
receive a building and/or mechanical permit before installing a roof- or
building-mounted solar energy systems. Roof- or building-mounted solar energy
systems are subject to the accessory use standards for the district in which it
is located, including setback, height, and impervious surface coverage limits.
            c.   Color. All roof- or building-mounted solar energy systems
shall use colors that are the same or similar with the color of the building or
roof material of the building on which the system is mounted.
            d.   Roof- or building-mounted solar energy systems shall not
exceed the maximum allowed height in any zoning district and shall not extend
beyond the perimeter of the roof line of the building on which it is mounted.
For purposes of height measurement, roof- or building-mounted solar energy
systems other than building-integrated systems shall be considered to be
mechanical devices and are restricted consistent with other building-mounted
mechanical devices for the zoning district in which the system is being
installed.
            e.   Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall be placed on the roof
to limit visibility from the public right-of-way or to blend into the roof
design, provided that minimizing visibility still allows the property owner to
reasonably capture solar energy.
            f.   Roof-mounted solar energy systems exceeding the applicable
zoning district height may be approved with a conditional use permit.
            g.   Solar energy systems shall be screened from view to the extent
possible without reducing their efficiency, but are exempt from the strict
requirements of subsection 1006.06. Screening may include walls, fences, or
landscaping.
         2.   Standards for Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems as an Accessory
Use.
            a.   Ground-mounted solar energy systems are a permitted accessory
uses in all districts in which buildings are permitted except for the Downtown
District.
            b.   In residential zoning districts, ground-mounted solar energy
systems shall be limited to a maximum area consistent with the accessory
structure limitations in subsection 1005.01 or no more than 25% of the rear
yard, whichever is less. In other zoning districts, ground-mounted solar energy
systems as a permitted accessory use shall not encompass more than 10% of the
total property area or lot size.
            c.   All ground-mounted solar energy systems shall meet the
standards of the State Building Code, and the owner or contractor shall receive
a building and/or mechanical permit before installing a ground-mounted solar
energy systems. Ground-mounted solar energy systems are subject to the
accessory use standards for the district in which it is located, including
setback, height, and impervious surface coverage limits.
            d.   The city does not consider the collector surface of a ground-
mounted solar energy system that is not in a DNR designated Shoreland District
as impervious surface. Any collector surface of a ground-mounted solar energy
system’s foundation that is in a DNR designated Shoreland District or other
component of the solar installation that rests on the ground is considered
impervious surface.
            e.   The height of a ground-mounted solar energy system shall not
exceed 15 feet at maximum tilt.
            f.   Ground-mounted solar energy systems, including any appurtenant
equipment, shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet from all property lines and a
minimum of 30 feet from all buildings located on adjacent lots. Shoreland
District setbacks shall apply.
            g.   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall only be located in
the following areas in each district.
 
District                 Location
Business/Commercial      Front, side, or rear yard
Downtown Design District Not allowed in Central Business District Zone
Industrial               Front, side, or rear yard
Residential Districts    Rear yard
TOD                      Midway or Transition Zones
 
            h.   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall not encroach upon
drainage and utility easements or trail easements.
            i.   The electrical collection system shall be placed underground
within the interior of each parcel. The collection system may be placed
overhead near substations or points of interconnection to the electric grid.
            j.   Solar energy systems shall be screened from view to the extent
possible without reducing their efficiency, but are exempt from the strict
requirements of subsection 1006.06. Screening may include walls, fences, or
landscaping.
            k.   If the solar energy system remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for a continuous period of one year, the system shall be deemed to
be abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove the
abandoned system at their expense after a demolition permit has been obtained.
Removal includes the entire structure including transmission equipment.
         3.   Standards for Community Solar Energy Systems (Solar Garden).
            a.   Community solar energy systems shall be allowed as an interim
use in the Future Restricted Development (AG) and shall be processed according
to the standards of subsection 1002.09.
            b.   Community solar energy systems shall not have a generating
capacity of more than five megawatts.
            c.   Community solar energy systems shall be on properties of at
least five acres in size.
            d.   The city prohibits all community solar energy systems within:
               i.   The Shoreland Overlay District, as designated on the city
zoning map;
               ii.   Wetlands to the extent required by the State Wetland
Conservation Act of 1991, being M.S. §§ 103A.201 et seq., as it may be amended
from time to time;
               iii.   Within 600 feet of areas designated or formally protected
from development by federal, state, or county agencies as wildlife habitat,
wildlife management areas, or designated as national wild and scenic land or
corridor;
               iv.   The Floodway District and the Flood Fringe District;
               v.   Residential Districts, Business Districts;
               vi.   All drainage and utility easements; and
               vii.   Two hundred feet of a principal structure existing at the
time the interim use permit is issued.
            e.   An interconnection agreement must be submitted to the utility
company and proof be provided to the city that the utility company has deemed
the agreement complete.
            f.   All structures must meet the setback, height, and coverage
limitations for the zoning district in which the system is located, except as
otherwise stated in this section.
            g.   Solar energy systems shall be screened from view to the extent
possible without reducing their efficiency, but are exempt from the strict
requirements of subsection 1006.06. Screening may include walls, fences, or
landscaping.
            h.   The owner or operator shall be required to submit to the city,
as part of the interim use permit application, a detailed site plan showing
both existing and proposed conditions. These plans shall show the location of
all areas where solar arrays would be placed, the existing and proposed
structures, property lines, access points, fencing, landscaping, surface water
drainage patterns, floodplains, wetlands, the ordinary high water mark for all
waterbodies, any other protected resources, topography, electric equipment, and
all other characteristics requested by the city.
            i.   All community solar energy systems shall meet the standards of
the State Building Code and all applicable local, state, and federal regulatory
standards. The owner or contractor shall receive a building and/or mechanical
permit before installing a community solar energy systems. Community solar
energy systems are subject to the accessory use standards for the district in
which it is located, including setback, height, and impervious surface coverage
limits.
            j.   The owner or operator of the community solar energy systems
must submit to the city a detailed emergency shutdown plan as part of the
review process.
            k.   Signage shall be posted at all entrance points to the property
the community solar energy system is located on that includes, at a minimum,
the owner and operator’s name, contact information, and emergency phone
numbers. All signage shall meet the requirements of Chapter 13 of City Code.
            l.   The manufacturer’s engineer or another qualified engineer
shall certify that the foundation and design of the solar panels meets the
accepted professional standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
            m.   Power and communication lines running between banks of solar
panels and to electric substations or interconnections with buildings shall be
buried underground on premises. The city may grant exemptions to this
requirement in instances where shallow bedrock, watercourses, or other elements
of the natural landscape interfere with the ability to bury lines.
            n.   The city requires the owner or operator to submit a
decommissioning plan for community solar energy systems to ensure that the
owner or operator properly removes the equipment and facilities upon the end of
project life or after their useful life. The owner or operator shall
decommission the solar panels in the event they are not in use for 12
consecutive months. The plan shall include provisions for the removal of all
structures and foundations, the removal of all electrical transmission
components, the restoration of soil and vegetation, and a soundly based plan
ensuring financial resources will be available to fully decommission the site.
The disposal of structures and/or foundations shall meet all federal, state,
and local requirements. The city may require the owner or operator to provide a
current day decommissioning cost estimate and shall post a bond, letter of
credit, or establish an escrow account, including an inflationary escalator, in
an amount determined by the City Council, to ensure proper decommissioning.
         4.   Standards for Solar Farms.
            a.   Solar farms shall be permitted as an interim use in the Future
Restricted Development (AG) District, and shall be processed according to the
standards of subsection 1002.09.
            b.   Solar farms shall be on properties of at least five acres in
size.
            c.   Storm water management and erosion and sediment control shall
meet the requirements of the city and best management practices.
            d.   The city prohibits solar farms within:
               i.   The Shoreland Overlay District, as designated on the city
zoning map;
               ii.   Wetlands, to the extent required by the State Wetland
Conservation Act, as it may be amended from time to time;
               iii.   Within 600 feet of areas designated or formally protected
from development by federal, state, or county agencies as wildlife habitat,
wildlife management areas, or designated as national wild and scenic land or
corridor;
               iv.   The Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts;
               v.   All zoning districts except Future Restricted Development
(AG) District;
               vi.   All drainage and utility easements; and
               vii.   Within 200 feet of a principal structure existing at the
time the interim use permit is issued.
            e.   An interconnection agreement must be submitted to the utility
company, and proof be provided to the city that the utility company has deemed
the agreement complete.
            f.   All structures must meet the setback, height, and coverage
limitations for the zoning district in which the system is located, except as
otherwise stated in this section.
            g.   Solar energy systems shall be screened from view to the extent
possible without reducing their efficiency, but are exempt from the strict
requirements of subsection 1006.06. Screening may include walls, fences, or
landscaping.
            h.   The manufacturer’s engineer or another qualified engineer
shall certify that the foundation and design of the solar panels meets the
accepted professional standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
            i.   Power and communication lines running between banks of solar
panels and to electric substations or interconnections with buildings shall be
buried underground on premises. The city may grant exemptions to this
requirement in instances where shallow bedrock, watercourses, or other elements
of the natural landscape interfere with the ability to bury lines.
            j.   The owner or operator shall be required to submit to the city,
as part of the interim use permit application, a detailed site plan showing
both existing and proposed conditions. These plans shall show the location of
all areas where solar arrays would be placed, the existing and proposed
structures, property lines, access points, fencing, landscaping, surface water
drainage patterns, floodplains, wetlands, the ordinary high water mark for all
waterbodies, any other protected resources, topography, electric equipment, and
all other characteristics requested by the city.
            k.   All solar farms shall meet the standards of the State Building
Code and all applicable local, state, and federal regulatory standards. The
owner or contractor shall receive a building and/or mechanical permit before
installing a solar farm. Solar farms are subject to the accessory use standards
for the district in which it is located, including setback, height, and
impervious surface coverage limits.
            l.   The owner or operator of the solar farm must submit to the
city a detailed emergency shutdown plan as part of the review process.
            m.   The city may allow the installation of small operations,
security, and equipment buildings on the site of solar farms as permitted
accessory uses to the solar farm.
            n.   The owner or operator shall contain all unenclosed electrical
conductors located above ground within structures that control access. In
addition, solar farms shall be protected from entry by a minimum four-foot tall
fence.
            o.   Signage shall be posted at all entrance points to the property
the solar farm is located on that includes at a minimum, the owner and
operator’s name, contact information, and emergency phone numbers. All signage
shall meet the requirements of Chapter 13 of the City Code.
            p.   The solar farm owner or operator shall provide access to the
City Fire Department either in the form of a lock or key to all access points
to the property the solar farm is located on.
            q.   Solar farms which have a generating capacity of 50 megawatts
or more shall fall under the permitting jurisdiction of the State Public
Utilities Commission (PUC).
            r.   The city requires the owner or operator to submit a
decommissioning plan for solar farms to ensure that the owner or operator
properly removes the equipment and facilities upon the end of project life or
after their useful life. The owner or operator shall decommission the solar
panels in the event they are not in use for 12 consecutive months. The plan
shall include provisions for the removal of all structures and foundations, the
removal of all electrical transmission components, the restoration of soil and
vegetation, and a soundly based plan ensuring financial resources will be
available to fully decommission the site. The disposal of structures and/or
foundations shall meet all applicant, federal, state, and local requirements.
The city may require the owner or operator to provide a current-day
decommissioning cost estimate and shall post a bond, letter of credit, or
establish an escrow account, including an inflationary escalator, in an amount
determined by the City Council, to ensure proper decommissioning.
         5.   Additional Standards. In addition to the standards outlined
above, all solar energy systems shall meet the following standards.
            a.   The owners or operators of solar energy systems that are
connected to the electric distribution or transmission system, either directly
or through the existing service of the primary use on the site, shall obtain an
interconnection agreement with the electric utility in whose service territory
the system is located. Off-grid systems are exempt from this requirement.
            b.   Electric solar energy system components that are connected to
a building electric system must have an Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listing.
            c.   All solar energy systems shall meet the standards of the State
and National Electric Code.
            d.   All solar energy systems using a reflector to enhance solar
production shall minimize glare from the reflector that affects adjacent or
nearby properties. Steps to minimize glare nuisance may include selective
placement of the system, screening on the north side of the solar array,
reducing use of the reflector system, or other remedies that limit glare.
            e.   Any solar energy system which is inoperable for 12 successive
months shall be deemed to be abandoned and shall be deemed a public nuisance.
The owner shall remove the abandoned system at their expense after obtaining a
demolition permit.
            f.   A building permit shall be obtained for any solar energy
system prior to installation.
            g.   All solar energy systems shall meet all federal and state
requirements, including the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) requirement and
size requirements.
   Subd. 4.   Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS).
         1.   Residential Zoning Districts.
            a.   WECS shall be permitted as an accessory use, which conditions
shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
               i.   For lots under two acres in size, WECS shall be roof-
mounted;
               ii.   Height shall be limited to that of applicable zoning
district regulation; and
               iii.   Minimum separation between the ground and the bottom of
blade shall be eight feet.
            b.   Conditional use permit required for any WECS, which conditions
shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
               i.   For lots under two acres in size, any roof-mounted WECS
exceeding the allowed zoning district height regulation;
               ii.   For lots over two acres and under 20 acres in size, WECS
shall be roof-mounted or attached to a monopole in the rear yard that is under
100 feet in height;
               iii.   For lots 20 acres and over, WECS shall be roof-mounted or
attached to a monopole that may be over 100 feet in height;
               iv.   Lot line setbacks shall be equal to maximum turbine blade
height. If over 100 feet in height, the setback shall be as follows: for each
foot over 100, add an additional half foot to the setback from residentially
zoned lot line; and
               v.   Shoreland District setbacks shall apply to all lots located
within the Shoreland Overlay District.
         2.   Non-Residential Zoning Districts.
            a.   Permitted accessory use if under 100 feet in height.
            b.   Conditional use if over 100 feet in height and/or more than
one pole mounted on a lot.
            c.   Minimum separation between the ground and the bottom of the
blade shall be eight feet.
            d.   Lot line setbacks shall be equal to maximum turbine blade
height. If over 100 feet in height, the setback shall be as follows: for each
foot over 100, add an additional half foot to the setback from residentially
zoned lot line.
            e.   Shoreland District setbacks shall apply.
            f.   No limit on the number of roof-mounted turbines.
         3.   TOD District.
            a.   For lots within the Station Zone, roof-mounted WECS shall be
permitted as an accessory use and subject to zoning height restrictions. Limit
one roof-mounted turbine per building.
            b.   For lots within the Midway and Transition Zone:
               i.   Permitted accessory use if under 100 feet in height;
               ii.   Conditional use if over 100 feet in height and/or more
than one pole mounted on a lot;
               iii.   Lot line setbacks shall be equal to maximum turbine blade
height. If over 100 feet in height, the setback shall be as follows: for each
foot over 100, add an additional half foot to the setback from residentially
zoned lot line;
               iv.   Shoreland District setbacks shall apply; and
               v.   Limit one roof-mounted turbine per building allowed in
Midway Zone. No limit on the number of roof-mounted turbines in the Transition
Zone.
         4.   Downtown Design District. Roof-mounted WECS shall be permitted as
an accessory use and subject to zoning height restrictions. Limit one roof-
mounted turbine per building.
         5.   For all zoning districts:
            a.   Freestanding towers, where permitted, shall be of monopole
design;
            b.   All WECS shall be equipped with an automatic overspeed control
device as part of the design;
            c.   All WECS shall comply with State Pollution Control Agency
noise standards outlined in Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, as it may be amended from
time to time;
            d.   Minimum blade clearance to ground of 30 feet for pole-mounted
horizontal turbines;
            e.   Setbacks along public land may be waived or reduced at the
discretion of public body in ownership of said land, subject to the review and
approval of the City Council;
            f.   All applicable provisions of
Chapter 9 of this Code, including, but not limited to, the applicable
provisions of the state building codes therein adopted, shall be complied with,
in addition to those requirements set out in this Section and Chapter 10;
            g.   Prior to the issuance of a permit, the applicant shall
provide, among other things, to the city documentation or other evidence from
the dealer or manufacturer that the wind energy conversion system has been
successfully operated in atmospheric conditions and is warranted against any
systems failures under reasonably expected severe weather operating conditions
as established by the director of fire and building inspection services. The
applicant shall also provide, among other things, to the city documentation
that the tower structure for the system has received a professional engineer’s
certification;
            h.   WECS tower foundations shall be designed to resist two times
the wind uplift calculated pursuant to the Uniform Building Code as adopted by
the city and shall have a professional engineer’s certification;
            i.   No WECS tower shall be constructed within 20 feet laterally of
an overhead electrical power line (excluding secondary electrical service lines
or service drops). The setback from underground electric distribution lines
shall be at least five feet;
            j.   No WECS or support tower of any kind shall be erected anywhere
within the city without first making an application for and obtaining from the
city a permit therefore which shall not be granted unless all requirements of
this Section are met and the proposed use will not be harmful to the public
health, welfare, and safety;
            k.   For all WECS towers, effective measures shall be taken to
prevent public interference and to place the tower in a substantially non-
climbable condition. Effective measures include removal of climbing rungs or
ladders from the bottom eight feet of the tower. The intention shall be to
prevent climbing of the tower by unauthorized persons;
            l.   Except for illumination devices required by FAA regulations
and residential lighting in compliance with city codes, no WECS or tower shall
have affixed or attached to it in any way any sign (does not include equipment
labels), banner, or placard of any kind, except for one sign, not to exceed two
square feet, which displays suitable warning of danger to unauthorized persons,
the system’s manufacturer, and emergency shut-down procedures;
            m.   All WECS shall comply with all applicable Federal
Communications Commission regulations, as amended;
            n.   All WECS shall comply with all applicable Federal Aviation
Administration regulations, as amended;
            o.   The interface of a wind energy conversion system with the
consumer’s electric service shall be pursuant to all applicable federal and
state regulations. The city encourages the owner to notify his or her local
electric utility company in advance and requests that both parties regulate
their activities in a cooperative manner; and
            p.   If the WECS remains nonfunctional or inoperative for a
continuous period of one year, the system shall be deemed to be abandoned and
shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove the abandoned system
at their expense after a demolition permit has been obtained. Removal includes
the entire structure, including mechanical equipment.
§ 1005.09 Swimming Pools.
   Subd. 1.   Swimming Pool Protection.
         1.   All swimming pools, spas, and hot tubs which contain water over
24 inches at any point or have a surface area exceeding 150 square feet, with
the exception of storable swimming pools, shall require a building permit and
shall be enclosed with a fence or barrier a minimum of four feet in height.
         2.   Above ground pools, spas, and hot tubs with sides or attached
fences which create a barrier at least four feet in height do not require an
additional fence or barrier.
         3.   A spa or hot tub with a safety cover complying with American
Society for Testing and Materials’ Standard (ASTM) Performance Specification
F1346-91 shall not be required to provide an additional fence or barrier.
         4.   Storable swimming pools do not require a fence or barrier,
provided all means of access (ladders and the like) are removed when not
attended. Storable swimming pools do not require a permit. Storable swimming
pools which contain water over 24 inches at any point or a surface area
exceeding 150 square feet still must adhere to setback requirements for
swimming pools unless otherwise noted. Storable swimming pools may be set up
outdoors without a permit only from April 1 to October 31 of each year. Any
swimming pool which is set up outdoors outside of these dates shall be treated
as a permanent swimming pool and shall require a building permit.
   Subd. 2.   Setback Standards.
         1.   In all residential districts, above ground and below ground
swimming pools shall be located at least six feet away from any principal
structure or frost footing with the exception of detached and attached decks
which service the pool area. This requirement shall not apply to above ground
hot tubs and spas or storable pools.
         2.   In all residential districts, swimming pools shall be set back a
minimum of ten feet from all adjoining lots.
         3.   Swimming pools shall not be permitted in an actual or required
front yard or within the required front yard abutting the side street if the
lot is a corner lot. Swimming pools shall not be permitted within a drainage
and utility easement.
         4.   The filter unit, pump, heating unit, and any other noise-making
mechanical equipment associated with any type of swimming pool shall be located
a minimum of ten feet from side and rear property lines and shall not be
located within a front yard.
§ 1005.10 Sexually Oriented Business.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to establish
provisions for the opportunity as well as controls of sexually oriented uses
within the city.
   Subd. 2.   General Provisions.
         1.   Sexually oriented uses as defined in Section 1001, shall be
subject to the following general provisions.
            a.   Activities classified as obscene as defined by M.S. § 617.241,
as it may be amended from time to time, are not permitted and are prohibited.
            b.   Sexually oriented uses, either principal or accessory, shall
be prohibited from locating in any building which is also used for residential
purposes.
            c.   Sexually oriented uses, either principal or accessory, shall
be prohibited from locating in any building which is also licensed to sell
intoxicating liquor, non-intoxicating malt liquor, or wine.
            d.   A sexually oriented use which does not qualify as a sexually
oriented use-accessory shall be classified as a sexually oriented use-
principal.
   Subd. 3.   Sexually Oriented Uses-Principal.
         1.   Sexually oriented uses-principal shall be located at least 300
feet, as measured in a straight line, from the closest point of the property
line of the building upon which the sexually oriented use-principal is located
to the property line of:
            a.   Residentially zoned property;
            b.   Another sexually oriented use-principal;
            c.   Schools;
            d.   Day cares;
            e.   Public library;
            f.   Public parks/trails; and
            g.   On-/off-sale liquor establishments.
         2.   Sexually oriented use-principal activities, as defined by this
chapter, shall be classified as one use. No two sexually oriented uses-
principal shall be located in the same building or upon the same property and
each use shall be subject to item 1 above.
         3.   Sexually oriented uses-principal shall, in addition to other sign
requirements established by City Code or ordinance, also adhere to the
following signing regulations:
            a.   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only
identify the type of business which is being conducted;
            b.   Shall not contain material classified as advertising; and
            c.   Shall comply with the requirements of size and number of the
district in which they are located.
   Subd. 4.   Sexually Oriented Uses-Accessory.
         1.   Sexually oriented uses-accessory shall:
            a.   Comprise no more than 5% of the floor area of the
establishment in which it is located; provided that the maximum floor area used
for sexually oriented uses-accessory may not exceed 1,000 square feet;
            b.   Comprise no more than 10% of the gross receipts of the entire
business operation; and
            c.   Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental
of merchandise.
         2.   Sexually oriented uses-accessory shall be restricted from and
prohibit access to minors by the physical separation of such items from areas
of general public access.
            a.   Movie Rentals. Display areas shall be restricted from general
view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in
clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for the operation
or shall be in catalogs under the direct control and distribution of the
operator.
            b.   Magazines. Publications classified or qualifying as sexually
oriented shall not be physically accessible to minors and shall be covered with
a wrapper or other means to prevent display of any material other than the
publication title.
            c.   Other Use. Sexually oriented uses-accessory, not specifically
cited shall comply with the intent of this subsection, subject to the approval
of the Zoning Administrator.
         3.   Sexually oriented uses-accessory shall be prohibited from both
internal and external advertising and signing of sexually oriented materials
and products.
         4.   Sexually oriented uses-accessory activities, including sale or
display of instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are used or designed
for use in connection with specified sexual activities, shall be prohibited at
any public show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival, theatrical, or other
performance or exhibition presented to the general public where minors are
admitted.
§ 1005.11 Non-Conforming Buildings, Structures, Uses, and Lots.
   Subd. 1.   Non-Conforming Building, Structures, and Uses. It is the purpose
of this subsection to provide for the regulation of non-conforming buildings,
structures, and uses and to specify those requirements, circumstances and
conditions under which non-conforming buildings, structures and uses may be
operated and maintained. The zoning ordinance establishes separate districts,
each of which is an appropriate area for the location of uses, which are
permitted in that district. It is necessary and consistent with the
establishment of these districts that non-conforming buildings, structures, and
uses not be permitted to continue without restriction. Furthermore, it is the
intent of this subsection that all non-conforming uses shall be eventually
brought into conformity with this chapter.
         1.   Grandfather Clause. Any structure or use lawfully existing on
July 20, 2002 (effective date of chapter) shall not be enlarged, but may be
continued at the size and in the manner of operation existing upon such date
except as hereinafter specified or subsequently amended.
         2.   Remedial Work. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the placing
of a structure in safe condition when said structure is declared unsafe by the
Building Official providing the necessary repairs shall not constitute more
than 50% of fair market value of such structure. The County Assessor will
determine said fair market value.
         3.   Normal Maintenance. Maintenance of a building or other structure
containing or used by a non-conforming use will be permitted when it includes
necessary non-structural repair and incidental alterations, which do not extend
or intensify the non-conforming building or use. Repairs shall be considered
structural if they relate to foundations, walls, rafters, joists, headers,
beams, timbers, structural sheathing, structural siding, or similar items.
         4.   Reversal of Non-Conformity. When any lawful non-conforming use of
any structure or land in any district has been changed to a conforming use, it
shall not thereafter be changed to any non-conforming use.
         5.   Reduction of Non-Conformity. A lawful non-conforming use of a
structure or parcel of land may be changed to lessen the non-conformity of use.
Once a non-conforming structure or parcel of land has been changed, it shall
not thereafter be so altered as to increase the non-conformity.
         6.   Restoration and Alteration.
            a.   Restoration. No lawful non-conforming building or structure
which has been damaged by fire, explosion, rot, decay, act of God or the public
enemy, to the extent of more than 50% of its value, as determined by the County
Assessor, shall be restored, except in conformity with the regulations.
            b.   Alterations to Lawful Non-Conforming Structures. Alteration
and normal maintenance to a lawful non-conforming building or structure may be
made, provided:
               i.   The alterations do not expand the building size;
               ii.   The alterations do not change the building occupancy
capacity or parking demand; and
               iii.   The alteration does not increase the number of bedrooms
in any dwelling unit.
            c.   Decks. Lawful non-conforming single-family detached dwelling
units in the R-1, R-1E, R-2, and R-5 districts may be expanded by adding a
deck, provided that the deck itself meets the current zoning regulations,
including all setback requirements. Structures that are lawful non-conforming
due to a failure to meet the required setback from the ordinary high water
level shall be subject to the conditions of subsection 1005.01.
         7.   Discontinuance. Whenever a lawful non-conforming use of a
structure or land is discontinued for a period of one year, following written
notice from an authorized agent of the city, any future use of said structure
or land shall be made to conform to the provisions of this chapter.
         8.   Threats to General Welfare. Non-conforming buildings, structures,
and/or uses, which based upon documented study and evidence, pose a danger and/
or threat to the health, safety, and general welfare of the community, shall:
            a.   Be legally described as a nuisance by the City Council; and
            b.   Upon being identified by the City Council and upon the owner
being notified in writing by the Zoning Administrator, the owner shall provide
to the City Council a documented time schedule and program, which will result
in the termination or correction of the non-conformity.
               i.   The termination/correction time schedule shall be based
upon, but not be limited to, factors such as the initial investment and the
degree of threat or danger being posed.
               ii.   The acceptability of the time schedule shall be determined
by the City Council with right of appeal.
               iii.   In no case shall a time schedule exceed two years.
   Subd. 2.   Floodplain District Non-Conforming Uses. Shall follow the
requirements set forth in subsection
1004.02.
§ 1005.12 Home Occupation Permits.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to prevent competition
with business districts and to provide a means through the establishment of
specific standards and procedures by which home occupations can be conducted in
residential neighborhoods without jeopardizing the health, safety, and general
welfare of the surrounding neighborhood. In addition, this subsection is
intended to provide a mechanism enabling the distinction between those home
occupations having minimal or no secondary impact and those which have
potential for adverse effects upon surrounding properties.
   Subd. 2.   Application. Subject to the non-conforming use provision of this
subsection, all home occupations, as defined in subsection
1001.02, shall be further defined to distinguish permitted home occupations
from interim use home occupations.
   Subd. 3.   Procedures and Permits.
         1.   Permitted Home Occupations. Any home occupation, as defined in
subsection
1001.02, shall require an administrative permit which shall be applied for,
reviewed, and processed in accordance with the procedural provisions of
subsection 1002.05.
         2.   Conditions. The Zoning Administrator may impose such conditions
on the granting of a home occupation permit as may be necessary to carry out
the purpose and provisions of this subsection.
         3.   Transferability. Home occupation permits whether granted
administratively or through the interim use permit process, shall not run with
the land and shall not be transferable.
   Subd. 4.   Prohibited Activities. No home occupations (permitted uses or
interim uses) shall:
         1.   Constitute a fire hazard to neighboring residences, adversely
affect neighboring property values, or constitute a nuisance or otherwise be
detrimental to the neighbors because of excessive traffic, noise, glare, odor,
electrical interference, vibration, dust, and other nuisance or safety hazards;
         2.   Adversely impact governmental facilities and services, including
roads, sanitary sewers, water, storm drainage, garbage service, police service,
and fire service;
         3.   Adversely affect sensitive environmental features, including
lakes, surface water and underground water supply and quality, wetlands,
slopes, floodplains and soils, or other factors as found relevant by the city;
         4.   Involve the use of hazardous materials or activities; and/or
         5.   Involve any of the following: body shops, machine shops, welding,
ammunition manufacturing, flea markets, motor vehicle repairs or sale, escort
businesses, or any sexually oriented land uses.
   Subd. 5.   Requirements. All permitted home occupations shall comply with
the following requirements and general provisions.
         1.   General Provisions.
            a.   No home occupation shall produce light, glare, noise, odor, or
vibration that will in any way have an objectionable effect upon adjacent or
nearby property or right-of-way.
            b.   No equipment shall be used in the home occupation which will
create electrical interference to surrounding properties.
            c.   The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
to the residential use of the premises, shall not change the residential
character thereof, and shall not result in compatibility or disturbance to
surrounding residential uses.
            d.   No home occupation shall require internal or external
alterations or involve construction features not customarily found in
residential dwellings.
            e.   There shall be no exterior storage of equipment or materials
used in the home occupation, except that personal automobiles used in the home
occupation may be parked on-site.
            f.   The home occupation shall meet all applicable Building and
Fire Codes.
            g.   There shall be no exterior display or signs which are visible
from outside of the dwelling except to the extent authorized by the city sign
ordinance.
            h.   All home occupations shall comply with the provisions of city
nuisance ordinances.
            i.   No home occupation shall be conducted between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
            j.   The operation of any wholesale or retail business shall not be
permitted unless it is conducted entirely by mail or delivery and does not
include the sale of equipment or delivery of merchandise to the premises.
            k.   The home occupation shall not involve any of the following:
repair service which requires equipment other than found in a dwelling;
manufacturing, over-the-counter sale of merchandise produced off the premises.
            l.   No person other than those who customarily reside on the
premises shall be employed by the home occupation.
            m.   All home occupations shall be conducted entirely within the
principal dwelling and shall not be conducted in accessory buildings, including
attached garages.
            n.   Home occupations shall not create a parking demand in excess
of that which can be accommodated in an existing driveway, where no vehicles
are parked closer than 15 feet from the curb line or edge of paved street
surface, whichever is greater.
            o.   Home occupations which create a need for more than three
parking spaces at any given time in addition to the parking spaces required by
the occupants of the dwelling shall not be permitted.
            p.   In no case shall the permitted home occupation cause or create
the need for an additional driveway access to the property.
   Subd. 6.   Interim Use-Home Occupations. The Zoning Administrator may
require an applicant for home occupation to submit an interim use permit
application for those occupations which do not meet all of the provisions of
Subd. 5 above. Said home occupation may be granted an interim use permit
provided that the following are met.
         1.   Adverse Effect on Neighborhood. The City Council shall find that
all home occupation activity occurring on the premises shall not cause any
adverse changes to the residential character of the neighborhood.
         2.   Screening of Exterior Changes. The City Council shall find that
any exterior changes necessary to conduct the home occupation are sufficiently
screened, properly designed, or separated by distance so as to be consistent
with the existing adjacent residential uses and compatible with the residential
occupancy.
         3.   Interior Changes. The City Council shall find that any interior
changes necessary to conduct the home occupation comply with all Building,
Electrical, Mechanical, and Fire Codes governing the use in a residential
occupancy.
         4.   Traffic. The City Council shall find that the traffic generated
by the home occupation involves only vehicles of the type that typically
service single- family residences and that such traffic constitutes neither a
nuisance nor a safety hazard.
   Subd. 7.   Non-Conforming Use. Existing home occupations lawfully existing
on July 20, 2002 (effective date of ordinance), may continue as non-conforming
uses subject to the provisions of subsection
1005.11.
   Subd. 8.   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing an
administrative permit for home occupation to inspect the premises in which the
home occupation is being conducted to ensure compliance with the provisions of
this chapter or any conditions additionally required by the Zoning
Administrator.
   Subd. 9.   Violations. The Zoning Administrator may revoke an administrative
permit for home occupation upon verification and written notice to the property
owner of any violations of the City Code. The decision of the Zoning
Administrator to revoke the home occupation administrative permit may be
appealed pursuant to the procedure outlined in subsection
1002.13.
§ 1005.13 Temporary Family Health Care Dwellings.
Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, subd. 9, as it may be amended
from time to time, the city opts-out of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, as
it may be amended from time to time, which defines and regulates temporary
family health care dwellings.
§ 1005.14 Outside Storage/Display.
   Subd. 1.   General. All materials and equipment, except as specifically
authorized elsewhere in this chapter, shall be stored within a building or
fully screened so as not to be visible from adjoining properties.
         1.   Passenger automobiles, trucks, and other motorized vehicles not
currently licensed by the state, or which are incapable of movement under their
own power due to mechanical deficiency, which are parked or stored outside for
a period in excess of 48 hours, and all materials stored outside in violation
of the city ordinances are considered refuse or junk and shall be disposed of
pursuant to city regulations.
         2.   Any accumulation of refuse not stored in containers which comply
with City Code, or any accumulation of refuse including car parts which has
remained on a property for more than 48 hours is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and may be abated by order of the Zoning Administrator, as provided by
Minnesota Statutes and Chapter
500 (Nuisance) of the City Code.
         3.   Temporary storage structures and construction dumpsters shall be
allowed in the front yard on an improved surface or in the side yard on an
improved or semi-improved surface for a period of no more than 90 days per
calendar year. A maximum of 180 days per calendar year may be approved by the
Zoning Administrator. Under no circumstances shall these structures be used for
temporary living or working quarters.
   Subd. 2.   Residential Zoning Districts; Exceptions. All personal property
shall be stored within a building or fully screened so as not to be visible
from adjoining properties and public streets, except for the following:
         1.   Play and recreational facilities;
         2.   Clothesline pole and wires;
         3.   Stacked firewood for the burning supply of the property resident;
         4.   Construction and landscaping materials currently being used on
the premises for current construction projects;
         5.   Agricultural equipment and materials, if these are used or
intended for use on the premises within a period of six months; and/or
         6.   All off-street parking of operable and licensed passenger
automobiles and personal or commercial vehicles of less than 12,000 pounds
gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR); in a designated driveway or parking pad,
surfaced in compliance with subsection
1006.03.
   Subd. 3.   Commercial and Industrial Zoning Districts.
         1.   Outside Storage/Display. Exterior storage and display shall be
governed by the respective zoning district in which such use is located.
         2.   Additional Standards. All exterior storage shall be screened so
as not to be visible from adjoining properties and public streets except for
the following:
            a.   Merchandise being displayed for sale in accordance with zoning
district requirements; and
            b.   Materials and equipment currently being used for construction
on the premises.
         3.   Parking of Commercial Vehicles. Up to three commercial vehicles,
such as delivery and service trucks up to 12,000 pounds gross vehicle weight
rating (GVWR), may be parked without screening if such vehicles relate to the
principal use. Construction equipment, trailers, and vehicles over 12,000
pounds gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) shall require screening in compliance
with subsection 1006.06.
   Subd. 4.   All Zoning Districts.
         1.   Except for temporary construction trailers and mobile services
operated by public service agencies (i.e., bookmobile, bloodmobiles, and the
like) as allowed by the city, and trailers parked in designated and improved
loading area, no vehicle may be used for office, business, industrial
manufacturing, testing, or storage of items used with or in a business,
commercial, or industrial enterprise, unless otherwise approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
         2.   The City Council may order the owner of any property to cease or
modify open storage uses including existing uses, provided it is found that
such use constitutes a threat to the public health, safety, convenience, or
general welfare.
§ 1005.15 Cannabis Businesses.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose.
         1.   The purpose of this subsection is to implement the provisions of
M.S. Chapter 342, which authorizes the city to protect the public health,
safety, welfare of residents by regulating cannabis businesses within the legal
boundaries of Big Lake.
         2.   The City Council finds and concludes that the proposed provisions
are appropriate and lawful use regulations for the City of Big Lake, that the
proposed amendments will promote the community’s interest in reasonable
stability in zoning for now and in the future, and that the proposed provisions
are in the public interest and for the public good.
   Subd. 2.   Authority.
         1.   The City of Big Lake has the authority to adopt this subsection
pursuant to:
            a.   M.S. § 342.13(c), regarding the authority of a local unit of
government to adopt reasonable restrictions of the time, place, and manner of
the operation of a cannabis business provided that such restrictions do not
prohibit the establishment or operation of cannabis businesses.
            b.   M.S. § 152.0263, subd. 5, regarding the use of cannabis in
public places.
            c.   M.S. § 462.357, regarding the authority of a local authority
to adopt zoning ordinances.
         2.   The City of Big Lake has delegated cannabis retail registration
authority to Sherburne County per Big Lake City Code § 310, Cannabis Retail
Registration.
   Subd. 3.   Advertising. Cannabis businesses are required to follow the sign
regulations in City Code and are limited to two fixed signs on the exterior of
the building or property of the business, unless otherwise limited by Big
Lake’s sign ordinance.
   Subd. 4.   Temporary Cannabis Events.
         1.   Permit Required for Temporary Cannabis Event. A permit is
required to be issued and approved by the city prior to holding a temporary
cannabis event.
         2.   Registration and Application Procedure. A registration fee shall
be charged to applicants for temporary cannabis events, as set in the city’s
fee schedule.
         3.   Application Submittal and Review. The city shall require an
application for temporary cannabis events.
            a.   An applicant for a temporary cannabis event shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the city. Said form shall include, but is not
limited to:
               i.   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
               ii.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the
applicant.
            b.   The applicant shall include with the form:
               i.   The application fee as required in this subection;
               ii.   A copy of the OCM cannabis event license application,
submitted pursuant to M.S. § 342.39, subd. 2.
            c.   The application shall be submitted to the city, or other
designee for review. If the designee determines that a submitted application is
incomplete, they shall return the application to the applicant with the notice
of deficiencies.
            d.   Once an application is considered complete, the designee shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the Zoning Administrator for approval or denial.
            e.   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
            f.   The application for a permit for a temporary cannabis event
shall meet the following standards: Any temporary cannabis event shall comply
with all requirements of §
1002.10 of the zoning ordinance, Temporary Uses.
            g.   Temporary cannabis events shall only be held at locations
where cannabis retail businesses are permitted.
            h.   A request for a temporary cannabis event that meets the
requirements of this subsection shall be approved.
            i.   A request for a temporary cannabis event that does not meet
the requirements of this subection shall be denied. The city shall notify the
applicant of the standards not met and basis for denial.
(Ord. 2025-01, passed 1-22-2025)
SECTION 1006: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 1006.01 General Performance Standards.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to establish general
development performance standards. These standards are intended and designed to
assure compatibility of uses; to prevent urban blight, deterioration, and
decay; and to enhance the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents
of the community.
   Subd. 2.   Investigations or Tests. The City Council may require the owner
or operator of any use to have made such investigations or tests as may be
required to show adherence to the performance standards. The investigation or
tests required shall be carried on by an independent testing organization
selected by the city. The investigations or testing shall be ordered by the
owner or operator and the associated costs shall be paid by the owner or
operator.
   Subd. 3.   Air Pollution. The emission of air pollution, including
potentially hazardous emissions, by any use, shall be in compliance with and
regulated by M.S. Chapter 116, as may be amended from time to time. The
emission of smoke by any use shall be in compliance with and regulated by the
State Pollution Control Standards, Minn. Rules Chapter 7017, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   Subd. 4.   Bulk Storage (Liquid). All uses associated with the bulk storage
of all gasoline, liquid fertilizer, chemical, flammable and similar liquids
shall comply with requirements of and have appropriate permits indicating
compliance with the State Fire Code and State Department of Agriculture
relations.
   Subd. 5.   Dust and Other Particulate Matter. Dust, fly ash, or other
particulate matter by any use shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations exceeding three-tenths grains per cubic foot of the conveying
gas or air. For measurements of the amount of particles in gases resulting from
combustion, standard corrections shall be applied to a stack temperature of
500°F and 50% excess air.
   Subd. 6.   Electrical Emission. All activities which create electrical
emissions shall comply with the minimum requirements of the Federal
Communications Commission.
   Subd. 7.   Fumes or Gases. Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point
in concentrations or amounts that are noxious, toxic, or corrosive. The values
given in Table I (Industrial Hygiene Standards Maximum Allowable Concentration
for eight-hour days, five days per week), Table III (Odor Thresholds), and
Table IV (Exposure to Substances Causing Injury to Vegetation) in the latest
revision of Chapter 5, “Physiological Effects”, that contains the tables, in
the Air Pollution Abatement Manual, by the Manufacturing Chemists’ Association,
Inc., Washington, DC, are hereby established as guides for the determination of
permissible concentration or amounts. Detailed plans for the elimination of
fumes or gases may be required before the issuance of a building permit.
   Subd. 8.   Lighting.
         1.   Required Lighting. All off-street parking areas, including
bicycle parking, shall be illuminated to a level that allows for safe, secure
access to the parking area and within it, subject to the determination of the
City Engineer. Parking areas accessory to single-family and two-family
dwellings, townhouses, and multiple-family dwellings of four or fewer units
shall be exempt from this requirement.
         2.   Lighting Guidelines.
            a.   Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area,
sign, yard, or other structure, shall be arranged as to deflect light away from
adjoining property, lakes, and rivers and from public streets.
            b.   Direct or sky-reflected glare from floodlights or from high
temperature processes such as combustion or welding shall not be directed into
any adjacent property.
            c.   The sources of lights shall be hooded or controlled in some
manner so as not to light adjacent property.
            d.   Bare incandescent light bulbs shall not be permitted in view
of adjacent property or public right-of-way.
            e.   Except for public street lights, any light or combination of
lights which cast light on a public street shall not exceed one foot-candle as
measured from the property line of said street.
            f.   Any light or combination of lights which cast light on any
adjacent property shall not exceed four-tenths foot candle (meter reading) as
measured from the property line.
            g.   Photometric plans shall be required for all applications which
include exterior lighting, to demonstrate compliance with this performance
standard.
   Subd. 9.   Noise. Noises emanating from any use shall be in compliance with
and regulated by the State Pollution Control Standards, Minn. Rules Chapter
7030, as amended from time to time.
   Subd. 10.   Odors. No odors shall be detectable beyond the limits of the
property. All restaurants or operations where food is prepared shall install
the appropriate exhaust systems and/or equipment to remove food odor, smoke
from grilling operations, or other similar odors associated with food or
beverage preparation.
   Subd. 11.   Radiation Emission. All activities that emit radioactivity shall
comply with the minimum requirements of the State Pollution Control Agency.
   Subd. 12.   Sewage Disposal. Individual sewage disposal systems shall be
installed and operated in compliance with the applicable provisions of Section
810 (Public Sewers) of the City Code.
   Subd. 13.   Trash Receptacles. Trash handling equipment and enclosures shall
be provided according to the following provisions: with the exception of
single-family and two-family dwellings, all uses having exterior trash
receptacles shall provide an enclosed area in conformance with the following.
         1.   Exterior wall treatment shall be similar and/or complement the
principal building.
         2.   The enclosed trash receptacle area shall be located in the rear
or side yard and shall comply with the accessory use setback requirements in
subsection
1005.01 for the underlying zoning district.
         3.   The trash enclosure shall be in an accessible location for
servicing vehicles and shall not conflict with site circulation.
         4.   The trash receptacles shall be fully screened from view of
adjacent properties and the public right-of-way.
         5.   The design and construction of the trash enclosure shall be
subject to the approval of the Building Official.
         6.   Recycling space shall be provided as required by the State
Building Code.
         7.   Noise emanating from trash collection activities shall be
minimized so as not to constitute a nuisance as defined and regulated by City
Code Section 500 (Nuisances).
   Subd. 14.   Vibration. No vibration shall be discernible at any property
line to the human sense of feeling for an accumulated total of three or more
minutes during any hour.
   Subd. 15.   Waste. All waste generated shall be disposed in a manner
consistent with all State Pollution Control Agency rules.
         1.   Any accumulation of waste generated on any premises not stored in
containers which comply with Section 590 (Refuse) of the City Code and this
chapter, and State Pollution Control Agency rules, or any accumulation of mixed
municipal solid waste generated on any premises which has remained thereon for
more than one week, or any accumulation of infectious, nuclear, pathological,
or hazardous waste which is not stored and disposed in a manner consistent with
State Pollution Control Agency rules is a nuisance and may be abated, and the
cost of abatement may be assessed against the property where the nuisance is
found.
         2.   The accumulation, storage, processing, and disposal of waste on
any premises, which is not generated on that premises, is prohibited, except as
specifically provided in this chapter.
§ 1006.02 Lot and Yard Requirements.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to identify minimum
yard spaces, exception, and areas to be provided for in each zoning district.
   Subd. 2.   Sewer and Water. All new developments and structures intended for
human use or occupancy shall be connected to the public water supply and
sanitary sewer systems, except as allowed by this chapter.
         1.   Expansion of Existing Structures on Individual Sewage Treatment
Systems. No building permits will be issued for existing structures on
individual sewage treatment systems for expansion of the structure, unless it
can be demonstrated by means satisfactory to the city that the development will
not result in groundwater, soil, or other contamination which may endanger the
public health. The property owner must receive approval for an individual
septic treatment system and private well from the city, county, or the State
Health Department. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until these
systems have been inspected and approved.
         2.   Interim Performance Standards. Subject to the other provisions of
the zoning ordinance, private septic and/or well may be allowed by interim use
permit for developments and structures on lots without public sewer and water,
provided the requirements of this chapter are satisfied on properties
identified as Parcel ID 65-026-2201 and Parcel ID 65-026-2000.
   Subd. 3.   General Yard Requirements.
         1.   Residential Lots. Residential lots in all zoning districts of the
city must contain useable/buildable upland equal to at least 90% of the
required minimum lot areas. Lots which involve wetland mitigation practices
shall be evaluated for conformance with this requirement based on wetland
mitigation plans indicating areas of wetland filling or dredging.
         2.   Through Lots and Corner Lots.
            a.   On a through lot that does not abut a major collector or
arterial road or on a corner lot, the required front yard shall be provided on
both streets.
            b.   Through lots require additional depth of 20 feet above the
minimum requirements of the underlying zoning district to accommodate the
buffer and screening requirements outlined in subsection 1006.06.
            c.   For corner lots, both street lines shall be front lot lines
for applying the setback regulations of this chapter.
            d.   Through lots that do abut a major collector or arterial
street, the lot line that is parallel to and directly abuts the right-of-way
along the major collector or arterial street shall be considered a rear lot
line so long as that yard has no access.
            e.   Access shall be made onto a local street. Where access onto a
local street is not feasible, the City Engineer may permit a direct access to a
major collector or arterial street designated as such by the Comprehensive
Plan.
         3.   Lots with or Adjacent to Power Lines, Pipe Lines, and Railroads.
Lots platted or located adjacent to power lines, pipe lines, and railroad
right-of-way shall require an additional width or depth of 20 feet above the
minimum requirements of the underlying zoning district to accommodate the
buffer and screening requirements outlined in subsection
1006.06. At the intersection of roadways and railroad rights-of-way and tracks,
there shall be a setback line in each of the quadrants formed by the railway
right-of-way and the street right-of-way as follows.
            a.   The setback line in each quadrant shall be a line drawn from a
point 75 feet distant along the outside railroad right-of-way line from its
intersection with the street right-of-way line to a point 75 feet distant from
said intersection along the street right-of-way line. Within said setback area,
there shall be constructed no fence or structure nor shall there be permitted
any tree, shrubbery, or any other planting which would obscure the line of
sight across the setback.
            b.   The residential structure setback from the railroad right-of-
way in residential and agricultural districts shall be 100 feet, except that
multiple-family dwellings and related structures located in the R-3 Zoning
District shall only be required to be set back ten feet from the railroad
right-of-way.
            c.   The minimum structure setback from the railroad right-of-way
in commercial and industrial districts shall be ten feet.
         4.   Clear View Triangle. Except as may be approved by the Zoning
Administrator, and except for a governmental agency for the purpose of
screening, no wall, fence, structure, tree, shrub, vegetation, or other
obstruction shall be placed on or extend into any yard or right-of-way area so
as to pose a danger to traffic by obscuring the view of approaching vehicular
traffic or pedestrians from any street or driveway. Visibility from any street
or driveway shall be unobstructed above a height of three feet, measured from
where both street or driveway centerlines intersect within the triangle
described as beginning at the intersection of the projected curb line of two
intersecting streets or drives, thence 30 feet along one curb line, thence
diagonally to a point 30 feet from the point of beginning along the other curb
line. The exception to this requirement shall be where there is a tree,
planting, or landscape arrangement within such area that will not create a
total obstruction wider than three feet. These requirements shall not apply to
conditions that legally exist prior to the effective date of this chapter
unless the Zoning Administrator determines that such conditions constitute a
safety hazard.
         5.   Frontage Requirement. Except as may be allowed within a planned
unit development, each lot shall have frontage on and access to an abutting,
improved, and city accepted public street.
         6.   Outlots. Outlots are deemed unbuildable and no building permit
shall be issued for such properties, except in the case of public park
facilities, essential services, and other facilities constructed by the city.
   Subd. 4.   Permitted Encroachments. The following structural elements or
equipment shall not be considered as encroachments on all yard area
requirements:
         1.   Window wells, chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills,
pilasters, lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves, gutters, and the
like, provided they do not project more than 30 inches into any yard;
         2.   Terraces, steps, platforms, stoops, patios, or similar features,
provided they do not extend above the height of the ground floor level of the
principal structure or to a distance less than five feet from any lot line. No
encroachment shall be permitted in existing or required drainage and utility
easements;
         3.   Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside
stairways and balconies opening upon fire towers projecting into a yard not
more than two feet or into a court not more than three and one half feet shall
be permitted, where the same are to be so placed as not to obstruct light and
ventilation;
         4.   Uncovered attached decks on all single-family detached dwelling
units as provided below.
            a.   Up to a 15-foot encroachment is permitted into a required rear
yard, provided that a minimum setback of 15 feet from the rear lot line is
maintained.
            b.   On corner lots, up to a ten-foot encroachment is permitted in
the required setback on the front yard abutting the street, provided that this
yard does not contain a driveway or a garage and that a minimum setback of 20
feet is maintained.
            c.   Up to a five-foot encroachment is permitted into a required
side yard, provided that a minimum setback of five feet from the side lot line
is maintained.
            d.   Decks are allowed an encroachment of up to ten feet from the
45- foot structure setback in rear yards only along collector streets.
            e.   Decks shall not be permitted to encroach into drainage and
utility easements.
         5.   In front yards:
            a.   Bay windows projecting 30 inches or less; and
            b.   A landing place or uncovered porch not exceeding six feet by
six feet (36 square feet total area), to a distance not exceeding six feet, if
the landing place or porch has its floor no higher than the entrance floor of
the building. An open railing no higher than three feet may be placed around
such place.
         6.   In side yards: overhangs, eaves, and gutters may project into the
required yard a distance of 30 inches; and
         7.   In rear yards:
            a.   Bay windows and overhanging eaves and gutters projecting 30
inches or less; and
            b.   Laundry drying equipment, arbors and trellises, and air
conditioning or heating equipment.
   Subd. 5.   General Setback Provisions.
         1.   Multiple Setback Requirements. When more than one setback applies
to a site, structures and facilities must be located to meet the most
restrictive setback standard.
         2.   Street Easements. In the case of properties which abut street
easements, applicable setbacks shall be measured from the easement line.
         3.   Residential Districts. In residential districts, air conditioning
units, excluding window units, shall not be located in the front yard or within
any drainage and utility easement.
   Subd. 6.   Setback Average. Where adjacent residential structures within the
same block have front yard setbacks different from those required, the minimum
front yard setback shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is
only one adjacent structure, the minimum front yard setback shall be the
average of the required setback and that of the adjacent property with a
structure.
         1.   Shoreland District Setback Average. Where principal structures
exist on the adjoining lots on both sides of a proposed building site,
principal structure setbacks may be altered without a variance to conform to
the adjoining setbacks from the ordinary high water level, provided the
proposed principal building site is not located in a shore impact zone or in a
bluff impact zone.
         2.   In order to determine the setback average, a certificate of
survey shall be provided by the applicant showing the setback distances of
adjacent principal structures to the front setback line or to the ordinary high
water level in the case of a Shoreland Management District.
§ 1006.03 Parking and Loading.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The regulation of off-street parking spaces in these
zoning regulations is intended to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public
right-of-way and to promote the safety and general welfare of the public, by
establishing minimum requirements for off-street parking of motor vehicles in
accordance with the intensity of utilization of the various parcels of land or
structures.
   Subd. 2.   Application of Off-Street Parking Regulations. The regulations
and requirements set forth herein shall apply to all off-street parking
facilities in all of the zoning districts of the city.
   Subd. 3.   Permit Required. An administrative permit is required for
residential driveway expansion and replacement, residential parking pads, and
parking lots installation/expansion.
   Subd. 4.   General Provisions.
         1.   Floor Area. The term “floor area,” for the purpose of calculating
the number of off-street parking spaces required, shall be determined on the
basis of the exterior floor area dimensions of the buildings, structure, or
use, multiplied by the number of floors, minus 10%.
         2.   Reduction of Existing Off-Street Parking and Loading Area. Off-
street parking spaces and loading area shall not be reduced in number or size
unless said number or size exceeds the requirements set forth herein for a
similar new use.
         3.   Change of Use or Occupancy of Buildings. Any change of use,
change of building occupancy, or building addition which requires additional
parking spaces shall not be permitted until there is furnished such additional
parking spaces as required by these zoning regulations.
         4.   Calculating Space.
            a.   Fractions of a Space. When determining the number of off-
street parking spaces results in a fraction, each fraction of one-half or more
shall constitute another space.
            b.   Places of Public Assembly. In stadiums, sports arenas, places
of worship, and other places of public assembly in which patrons or spectators
occupy benches, pews, or other similar seating facilities, each 18 inches of
such seating facilities shall be counted as one seat for the purpose of
determining requirements.
            c.   Snow Storage in Parking Stalls. Provision shall be made in the
parking area for adequate snow storage or removal to ensure that the required
number of parking spaces are available at all times during the year.
   Subd. 5.   Design Standards.
         1.   Vehicular traffic generated by commercial, industrial, and
multiple-family residential uses shall be channeled and controlled in a manner
to avoid congestion of the public streets, traffic hazards, and excessive
traffic through residential areas, particularly truck traffic.
         2.   The adequacy of any proposed parking facility or internal
circulation system shall be determined by the City Engineer who may require
such additional measures for traffic control as they deem necessary, including,
but not limited to, directional signalization, channelization, standby turn
lanes, illumination, and storage area and distribution facilities within the
site to prevent back-up of vehicles on public streets.
         3.   Within Structures. Required parking for residential dwellings,
except multiple-family apartments, shall be covered and located within the
principal or accessory structure(s). On-street parking shall not be utilized to
satisfy the required off-street parking supply.
         4.   Streets Not Used. Except under joint parking provisions or in the
case of single- and two-family dwellings, parking areas shall be designed so
that circulation between parking bays or aisles occurs within the designated
parking lot and does not depend upon a public street or alley. Except in the
case of single- and two-family dwellings located on local streets, parking area
design which requires backing into the public street is prohibited.
         5.   Access. Off-street parking spaces shall have access from a public
right-of-way.
            a.   Access drives shall be so located as to minimize traffic
congestion and abnormal traffic hazard.
            b.   Vehicular access to business or industrial uses across
property in any residential district shall be prohibited.
         6.   Parking Stall Standards. Except in the case of single-family and
two-family dwellings, parking areas and their aisles shall be designed in
compliance with the following standards.
Table 26
Angle of Stall Width Curb Length Per Stall Length Aisle One-Way Width Two-Way
Parking              Car
Table 26
Angle of   Stall Width Curb Length Per Stall Length Aisle One-Way Width Two-Way
Parking                Car
90 degrees 9 feet      9 feet          20 feet      24 feet       24 feet
75 degrees 9 feet      9 feet          20 feet      20 feet 11    23 feet
                                                    inches
60 degrees 9 feet      10 feet         20 feet      18 feet 6     22 feet
                                                    inches
45 degrees 9 feet      12 feet 3       20 feet      13 feet       22 feet
                       inches
0 degrees  9 feet      22 feet         20 feet      12 feet       24 feet
Note to Table:
The parking lot dimensions may be reduced upon City Council approval of a
comprehensive snow removal site plan. The snow removal site plan shall be
contractual in nature, signed by the property owner and filed with the City
Clerk. The reduction shall not be allowed until the conditions of this
subsection are met.
 
         7.   Curb Cut Minimum and Maximum. Curb cuts shall adhere to the
standards in the Engineering Design Standards.
         8.   Driveway Access. Each property shall be allowed one driveway
access for each 125 feet of street frontage. Single-family uses shall be
limited to one driveway access per lot.
   Subd. 6.   Location. All accessory off-street parking facilities required by
this chapter shall be located and restricted as follows.
         1.   Required accessory off-street parking shall be on the same lot
under the same ownership as the principal use being serviced, except for
combined or joint parking facilities as regulated by this subsection.
         2.   Except for single-, two-family dwellings, head-in parking,
directly off of and adjacent to a public street, with each stall having its own
direct access to the public street, shall be prohibited.
         3.   There shall be no off-street parking within ten feet of any
property line within multiple-family, commercial, or industrial zoning
districts. The parking and drive aisle setback shall be increased to 20 feet
where said facilities are located adjacent to residentially zoned or used
property. The Zoning Administrator may approve a zero-foot setback for shopping
centers.
         4.   All lots having direct driveway access onto collector or arterial
roads shall provide turn around facilities on the lot to eliminate vehicles
backing onto said roads.
   Subd. 7.   Parking Pads.
         1.   General Rules.
            a.   Parking on landscaping is prohibited.
            b.   All motor vehicles and recreational vehicles must be operable
and licensed.
               i.   A maximum of four vehicles are allowed per lot.
               ii.   Up to two vehicles may exceed 20 feet.
            c.   Parking pad must meet all yard setbacks and is considered an
accessory structure when defining setbacks.
            d.   Pad surface materials shall be orderly contained by delineated
edging or in some other effective fashion.
            e.   All parking must not disturb proper drainage or utilities.
            f.   In cases where improved and semi-improved surface materials
are required, the pad must cover the entire area under the vehicle and cannot
be placed solely under the wheels of the vehicle.
         2.   Rear Yard.
            a.   Vehicles, recreational vehicles, or trailers are allowed on
any surface type.
            b.   No commercial vehicles are allowed.
         3.   Side Yard.
            a.   Vehicles, recreational vehicles, or trailers are allowed on a
semi-improved or improved surface. The access portion to a side yard parking
pad may be a semi-improved surface.
            b.   Allowed on garage side only on in other cases subject to the
judgment of the Zoning Administrator.
         4.   Front Yard. A parking pad is not allowed unless determined to be
acceptable by the Zoning Administrator. No unimproved or semi-improved surfaces
are allowed.
   Subd. 8.   Residential Driveways. The purpose of this provision is to
provide minimum setback and slope standards for single-family and two-family
dwelling unit driveway construction. The intent is to reduce interference with
drainage and utility easements by providing setback standards; reduce erosion
by requiring an improved surface for all driveways; and, provide positive
drainage to the street via establishment of minimum driveway slope standards.
The requirements of this provision shall apply to all building permits for new
construction of residential units and future modifications. A certificate of
survey indicating the setback, slope, area, and elevations shall be required to
illustrate compliance with these provisions. Residential driveway requirements
are as follows.
         1.   Driveways shall be set back at least five feet from side and rear
yard property lines.
         2.   All driveways shall be surfaced with bituminous, concrete, or
other improved surface material, as approved by the City Engineer. Except, in
the Agricultural District, driveways shall be surfaced for the first 100 feet
of the driveway, with bituminous concrete or other improved surface materials
as approved by the City Engineer.
         3.   A maximum of four operable and licensed vehicles may be parked in
the front yard driveway.
   Subd. 9.   Number of Spaces Required. Unless otherwise specified in the
underlying zoning district, the following minimum number of off-street parking
spaces shall be provided and maintained by ownership for and during the life of
the respective uses.
Table 27
Table 27
Use                                     Parking Standard
Animal hospitals and kennel             5 per 1,000 SF GLA
                                        One space for each 5 residents, based
Assisted living facility                on the building design and operational
                                        needs.
Automobile repair and motor fuel        3 per 1,000 SF GFA interior sales area,
station                                 storage/display area, plus 2 per
                                        service bay
Bank or financial institution (with or  4 per 1,000 SF GFA
without a drive through)
Car wash                                2, plus 1 per each 2 peak shift
                                        employees
Catering business                       2 per 1,000 SF GFA
Clinic                                  4 per 1,000 SF GFA
Coffee shop                             10 per 1,000 SF GFA
                                        2 parking spaces, plus 1 space for
Day care facility                       every 5 participants based on the
                                        building design
Dwelling, multiple-family               2 per dwelling unit
Dwelling, single-family                 2 enclosed spaces per dwelling unit
Dwelling, senior                        1.5 per dwelling unit
Dwelling, townhouse                     2 enclosed spaces per dwelling unit
Dwelling, two-family                    2 enclosed spaces per dwelling unit
Grocery store                           6 per 1,000 SF GFA
                                        At least 15 spaces, plus 1 additional
Health club                             space for each 300 square feet of floor
                                        area over 2,000 square feet
High intensity/call centers and         6 per 1,000 SF GFA
telemarketing
Hospital                                4 per 1,000 SF GFA
Large item retail sales                 3 per 1,000 SF GFA
Manufacturing, fabricating, or          1.5 per 1,000 SF GFA
processing of a product or material
Medical laboratory                      5 per 1,000 SF GFA
Motels, motor hotels, hotels            1.5 per dwelling unit, guest room, or
                                        hotel room
Municipal administration buildings,
post office, and other public service   3 per 1,000 SF GFA
buildings
Office buildings, medical and           3 per 1,000 SF GFA
professional offices
                                        1 parking space for each 4 seats based
Places of worship                       on the design capacity of the main
                                        seating area or areas
Research, experimental, or testing      2 per 1,000 SF GFA
stations
Restaurant                              10 per 1,000 SF GFA
Restaurant-tavern, tavern, brewery,
micro-brewery, micro-distillery, micro- 16 per 1,000 SF GFA
winery, tap room
Retail store, service/shopping center
or convenience food take-out/delivery   4 per 1,000 SF GFA
establishment
School: elementary/middle/junior high   One parking space for each classroom
(public/private/charter)                plus 1 parking space for each 7
                                        students based upon design capacity
School: senior high (public/private/    One parking space for each classroom
charter)                                plus one parking space for each 4
                                        students based upon design capacity
State licensed residential facility     One parking space for each 4 beds for
                                        which accommodations are offered
Places of assembly                      One parking space for each three seats
                                        based upon design capacity
Warehousing, storage, or handling of    1 per 1,000 SF GFA
bulk goods
Wholesale establishments (selling only  2 per 1,000 SF GFA
to retailers and contractors)
Note to Table:
For uses not specifically listed above, off-street parking requirements shall
be computed by the Zoning Administrator on the same basis as required for the
most similar listed uses. In such cases, the Zoning Administrator shall also
consult off-street parking reference materials including, but not limited to,
manuals prepared by the American Planning Association and Institute of
Transportation Engineers.
 
   Subd. 10.   Joint Facilities.
         1.   Joint Use of Parking. The City Council may approve a conditional
use permit for one or more businesses to provide the required off-street
parking facilities by joint use of one or more sites where the total number of
spaces provided is less than the sum of the total required for each business,
subject to the provisions of subsection
1002.08 and the conditions outlined below.
            a.   Entertainment Uses. Up to 60% of the parking facilities
required for a theater, bowling alley, bar, restaurant, or similar
entertainment oriented use may be supplied by the off-street parking facilities
provided by types of uses specified as primarily daytime uses in Item 1.d
below.
            b.   Nighttime or Sunday Uses. Up to 60% of the off-street parking
facilities required for any use specified under item 1.d below as primary
daytime uses may be supplied by the parking facilities provided by the
following nighttime or Sunday uses; auditoriums incidental to a public or
parochial school, churches, bowling alleys, theaters, bars, restaurants, or
other similar entertainment oriented use, or apartments.
            c.   Places of Assembly (School Auditorium and Place of Worship and
the Like). Up to 80% of the parking facilities required by this section for a
place of worship or for an auditorium incidental to a public or parochial
school may be supplied by the off-street parking facilities provided by uses
specified under item 1.d below as primarily daytime uses.
            d.   Daytime Uses. For the purpose of this subsection the following
uses are considered as primarily daytime uses: banks, offices, retail stores,
personal services, household equipment or furniture shops, manufacturing,
wholesale, and similar uses.
         2.   Additional Criteria for Joint Parking. In addition to the
preceding requirements, the following conditions are required for joint parking
usage.
            a.   Proximity. The building or use for which application is being
made to utilize the off-street parking facilities provided by another building
or use shall be located within 300 feet of such parking facilities.
            b.   Conflict in Hours. The applicant shall show that there is no
substantial conflict in the principal operating hours of the two buildings or
uses for which joint use of off-street parking facilities is proposed.
            c.   Written Consent and Agreement. A legally binding instrument,
executed by the parties concerned, for joint use of off-street parking
facilities, duly approved as to title of grantors or lessors, and form and
manner of execution by the City Attorney, shall be filed with the City Clerk
and recorded with the County Recorder or Registrar of Titles, and a certified
copy of the recorded document shall be filed with the city within 60 days after
approval of the joint parking use by the city.
   Subd. 11.   Off-Site Parking. Any off-site parking which is used to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall be a conditional use permit as regulated by
subsection
1002.08 and subject to the conditions listed below.
         1.   Code Compliance. Off-site parking shall be developed and
maintained in compliance with all requirements and standards of this chapter.
         2.   Access and Proximity. Reasonable access from off-site parking
facilities to the use being serviced shall be provided. Off-site parking shall
not be located more than 500 feet from any normally used entrance of the
principal use serviced.
         3.   Lessee Agreement Required. The site used for meeting the off-site
parking requirements of this chapter shall be secured by a lease agreement
between the parties, with terms approved by the City Council subject to the
review and approval of the City Attorney, filed with the City Clerk and
recorded with the County Recorder or Registrar of Title. A certified copy of
the recorded document shall be filed with the City Clerk within 60 days after
approval of the agreement by the City Council.
         4.   Term of Parking Agreement. Any use which depends upon off-site
parking to meet the requirements of this chapter shall maintain parking
utilization of the off-site location until such time as on-site parking is
provided or a site in closer proximity to the principal use is acquired and
developed for parking.
   Subd. 12.   Proof of Parking. A reduction in the number of required parking
stalls may be permitted by interim use permit subject to the provisions of
subsection 1002.09 and the conditions outlined below.
         1.   Evidence is provided demonstrating that the parking requirements
of the proposed use will be less than the parking required under subsection
1006.03, during the peak demand period. Factors to be considered when reviewing
the proposed parking demand shall include, but not be limited to:
            a.   Size, type, and use of building;
            b.   Number of employees;
            c.   Projected volume and turnover of employee and/or customer
traffic;
            d.   Projected frequency and volume of delivery or service
vehicles;
            e.   Number of company owned vehicles; and
            f.   Storage of vehicles on-site.
         2.   In no case shall the amount of parking provided be less than one-
half of the amount of parking required by ordinance.
         3.   The property owner can demonstrate that the site has sufficient
property under the same ownership to accommodate the expansion of the parking
facilities to meet the minimum requirements of subsection 1006.03, if the
parking demand exceeds on-site supply.
         4.   The area reserved as proof of parking shall be sodded or seeded
and maintained as green space or a recreational area. No permanent buildings
shall be permitted in the “proof of parking” area.
         5.   The property owner shall record a restrictive covenant against
the title to the property providing that additional parking shall be
constructed in accordance with subsection 1006.03, if the site parking demand
exceeds the actual on-site parking supply in the sole opinion of the city. The
form of the restrictive covenant shall be approved by the City Attorney before
the issuance of the interim use permit.
         6.   To qualify for proof of parking, the site plan must comply with
all current zoning standards.
   Subd. 13.   Off-Street Loading. The regulation of loading spaces in these
zoning regulations is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right-
of-way and in off-street parking areas so to promote the safety and general
welfare of the public by establishing minimum requirements for off-street
loading and unloading from motor vehicles in accordance with the specific and
appropriate utilization of various parcels of land or structures.
         1.   Location.
            a.   Off-Street. All required loading spaces shall be off-street
and located on the same lot as the building or use to be served.
            b.   Distance from Intersection. All loading space curb cuts shall
be located at minimum 50 feet from the intersection of two or more street
rights-of-way. The distance shall be measured from the property line.
            c.   Distance from Residential Use. No loading space for a non-
residential use shall be located closer than 100 feet from a residential use or
district.
            d.   Front Yard Locations. With the exception of the I-1 District,
a conditional use permit shall be required for loading spaces for non-
residential uses where the loading space is located at the front or side of the
building on a corner lot.
               i.   Pedestrians. Loading spaces shall not conflict with
pedestrian movement.
               ii.   General Compliance. Loading spaces shall comply with all
other requirements of this subsection.
            e.   Traffic Interference. Each loading space shall be located with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or public alley in a manner
which will cause the least interference with traffic.
            f.   Parking Spaces. Loading spaces shall not utilize required
parking spaces.
            g.   Adequacy. All loading space shall be sufficient to meet the
requirements of each use and shall provide adequate space for storage and
maneuvering of the vehicles they are designed to serve.
            h.   Surfacing. All loading spaces and access ways shall be
improved per the engineering standards manual.
            i.   Accessory Use: Parking and Storage. Any space allocated as a
required loading space or access drive so as to comply with the terms of this
chapter, shall not be used for the storage of goods, inoperable vehicles, or
vehicles for sale or rent or show and shall not be included as part of the
space requirements to meet the off-street parking requirements.
            j.   Screening. Except in the case of multiple dwellings all
loading areas shall be screened and landscaped from abutting and surrounding
residential uses and the public right-of-way, in compliance with subsection
1006.06.
         2.   Size of Loading Spaces. Loading spaces shall be not less than 30
feet in length, ten feet in width, and 14 feet in height, exclusive of aisle
and maneuvering space.
§ 1006.04 Building Standards.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to establish general
building regulations that are intended and designed to assure compatibility of
uses; to prevent urban blight, deterioration, and decay; and to enhance the
health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the city.
   Subd. 2.   General Provisions: Dwelling Unit Restriction. Model homes,
garages, and accessory buildings shall not at any time be used as living
quarters, temporarily or permanently, except as may be approved in emergency
cases by the Zoning Administrator as an administrative permit.
   Subd. 3.   Exterior Materials.
         1.   The exterior of structures shall include a variation in building
materials which are to be distributed throughout the building facades and
coordinated into the architectural design of the structure to create an
architecturally balanced appearance.
         2.   Building foundations not exceeding two feet and other such
portions of a building’s exterior wall area need not comply with the
requirements for the primary exterior wall area treatment or materials.
         3.   No galvanized or unfinished steel or unfinished aluminum
buildings (walls or roofs) may be constructed except as provided herein.
         4.   Residential Uses. The primary exterior building facade finished
for residential uses shall consist of materials comparable in grade to the
following:
            a.   Brick;
            b.   Stone (natural or artificial);
            c.   Integral colored spit face (rock face) concrete block;
            d.   Wood, natural or composite, provided the surfaces are finished
for exterior use or wood of proven exterior durability is used, such as cedar,
redwood, or cypress;
            e.   Stucco (natural or artificial);
            f.   Vinyl, steel, fiber, and aluminum siding; and
            g.   Other materials as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         5.   Non-Residential Uses.
            a.   Permitted exterior wall finish materials:
               i.   Brick;
               ii.   Stone, natural and textured cast stone;
               iii.   Concrete masonry with integral color and texture (such as
split or rock faced concrete block) or with exterior surfaces that have been
treated with a decorative, applied surface texture and color other than paint;
               iv.   Cast in place concrete or pre-cast concrete panels;
               v.   Wood, natural or composite, provided the surfaces are
finished for exterior use or wood of proven exterior durability is used, such
as cedar, redwood, or cypress;
               vi.   Composite board;
               vii.   Glass;
               viii.   Stucco;
               ix.   Vinyl;
               x.   Exterior insulated finishing systems (EIFS) where the EIFS
system is manufactured to replicate the look of approved building materials;
               xi.   Metal siding that is coated or anodized with a non-
reflective glare free finish is permitted only where coordinated into the
overall architectural design and provided that the metal siding does not
constitute more than 50% of the total exterior wall area. The wall area does
not include doors, overhead doors, windows, and the like; and
               xii.   Exterior walls of masonry, concrete, and glass are
encouraged.
            b.   Metal roofing material that is coated or anodized with a non-
reflective, glare-free finish is a permitted roofing material.
         6.   Exterior Materials for Buildings in the I-3 Innovation Industrial
Park Zoning District. Any exterior wall adjacent to a public street must have a
higher level of aesthetics. This could be accomplished by architectural design
features, increased use of stone and/or brick across 25% of the facade area,
combination of glass and architectural metals, or a wall plane articulation
across 25% of the facade area. Such articulation must extend at least five feet
from the primary building line of the principal building structure.
   Subd. 4.   Single-Family Dwellings. All single-family detached homes (except
for manufactured homes located in the R-4 zoning district) shall conform to the
following standards.
         1.   General Requirements.
            a.   All homes shall be constructed upon a continuous perimeter
foundation that meets the requirements of this chapter and the State Building
Code;
            b.   Shall be so located on the lot so that garage space for at
least two vehicles, either attached or detached, can be located on said lot;
and
            c.   Provision shall be made for possible future decks, porches, or
additions that meet setback standards, as part of the initial building plans.
         2.   Minimum Floor Area Per Dwelling Unit. Within the AG, R-1, R-2,
and R-5 Zoning Districts, all new single-family dwellings shall have a minimum
floor area of 960 square feet.
         3.   Architectural Details. The front of all single-family homes shall
contain a minimum of two unique architectural features such as a front porch,
dormer, attached decks, architectural recesses, decorative cornices, bay/bow
windows, pilasters, columns, cantilevers, built-in planter/window boxes, formal
pediment, and trim emphasizing front door entry or other significant
architectural detail. Variations of color are not sufficient to comply with
this condition.
   Subd. 5.   Attached Residential Dwellings.
         1.   General Requirements.
            a.   Unit Width. The minimum width of a dwelling unit shall be 24
feet.
            b.   Number of Units and Building Length. No single townhome
structure shall contain more than six attached units if in a row or more than
eight attached units if back-to-back. A townhome structure shall have no single
wall greater than 48 feet in length without an offset of four feet or more, or
an angle of 22.5 degrees or more.
            c.   Utilities.
               i.   Public Utility Service. Separate public utility services
shall be provided to each unit unless exempted by the City Engineer.
               ii.   Water Connection. Individual unit shut-off valves shall be
provided.
               iii.   Sewer Connection. Where more than one unit is served by a
sanitary sewer service, all maintenance and cleaning shall be the
responsibility of the property owner’s association or owners.
            d.   Each site shall include at least 30% open space, that is,
space without buildings, paving, or other impervious surface.
               i.   The City Council may require, at its discretion, that open
space as required herein be configured in a manner to provide recreation
facilities such as a tot lot or playing fields. The need for such facilities
shall be based in part of the type of structures proposed, the target market
for the units, the proximity to public recreation areas, and other factors
identified by the city.
               ii.   Outdoor swimming pools or other intensive recreation uses
shall comply with the minimum setbacks required for the principal structure.
            e.   Streets. All streets shall be public and shall comply with
design standards and specifications as governed by the city subdivision
ordinance.
            f.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided from parking areas,
loading zones, and recreation areas to the entrances of the building(s).
            g.   Decks or Porches. Provision shall be made for possible decks,
porches, or additions as part of the initial dwelling unit building plans. The
unit lot shall be configured and sized to include decks or porches.
            h.   Minimum Overhang. A minimum roof overhang of 12 inches shall
be provided on the front and back of all attached dwellings.
         2.   Minimum Floor Area Per Dwelling Unit. The minimum floor area for
two-family and townhome units shall be 960 square feet.
         3.   The exterior of attached dwelling units shall include a variation
in building materials which are to be distributed throughout the building
facades and coordinated into the architectural design of the structure to
create an architecturally balanced appearance and shall comply with the
following requirements:
            a.   A minimum of 20% of the combined area of the front building
facades of a structure shall have an exterior finish of brick, stucco, and/or
artificial stone.
            b.   For the purpose of this subsection, the area of the building
facade shall not include area devoted to windows, entrance doors, garage doors,
or roof areas.
   Subd. 6.   Multiple-Family (Apartment) Dwellings.
         1.   General Requirements.
            a.   Open Space. Unless otherwise indicated in the underlying
zoning district, each site shall include at least 30% open space, that is,
space without buildings, paving, or other impervious surface.
               i.   The city may require, at its discretion, that open space as
required herein be configured in a manner to provide recreation facilities such
as a tot lot or playing fields. The need for such facilities shall be based in
part on the type of structures proposed, the target market for the units, the
proximity to public recreation areas, and other factors identified by the city.
               ii.   Outdoor swimming pools or other intensive recreation uses
shall observe setbacks as required in the underlying zoning district or as
required for the principal structure, whichever is greater.
            b.   Recreation Areas. Each multiple-family apartment building or
complex of 20 or more dwelling units shall include visually defined or fenced
active recreation areas. Said areas need not be contiguous. The size of the
recreation area shall be 2,000 square feet plus an additional 50 square feet
per unit for over 20 dwelling units, exclusive of parking or loading areas. For
senior or physically disabled housing, 20% of the gross lot area must be
reserved for active or passive recreation area. These requirements may be
reduced, at the City Council’s discretion, for projects in the TOD District’s
Station Zone and Midway Zone which are built in accordance with the TOD
District’s zoning requirements and have lot coverage levels that do not allow
for full compliance with this provision.
         2.   Exterior Materials.
            a.   A minimum of 25% of the combined area of all building facades
of a structure shall have an exterior finish of brick, stucco, and/or natural
or artificial stone.
            b.   For the purposes of this subsection, the area of the building
facade shall not include area devoted to windows, entrance doors, garage doors,
or roof areas.
   Subd. 7.   Screening of Mechanical Equipment. All rooftop and ground-mounted
mechanical equipment of residential buildings having three units or more and of
non-residential buildings and/or equipment shall comply with the following
standards:
         1.   All rooftop and ground-mounted mechanical equipment shall be
screened so as to mitigate noise and view of said equipment in compliance with
subsection
1006.06.
         2.   All rooftop and ground-mounted mechanical equipment shall be
designed (including exterior color) and located so as to be aesthetically
harmonious and compatible with the building.
            a.   Rooftop mechanical equipment shall not exceed the building
height standards by more than ten feet.
            b.   All rooftop and ground-mounted equipment shall be painted or
color clad to match the building or screened from view with secured fencing or
parapets in a harmonious color.
            c.   Screening of and landscaping around the equipment may be
required where the design, color, and location of the equipment are found to
not effectively buffer noise or provide aesthetic harmony and compatibility.
Screening shall be constructed of durable materials which are aesthetically
compatible with the structure and which may be an integral part of the
structure. Applicable requirements for access to the equipment shall be
observed in the design and construction of the screening.
         3.   All loading, service utility, mechanical equipment, and outdoor
storage areas shall be screened from all public roads and adjacent properties
and shall be designed to be compatible with the architectural treatment of the
principal building.
   Subd. 8.   Height Requirements. All buildings and structures shall comply
with the maximum building height of the applicable zoning district.
         1.   Exceptions. The building height limits established for each
zoning district shall not apply to the following:
            a.   Belfries;
            b.   Chimneys or flues;
            c.   Church/places of worship spires;
            d.   Cooling towers;
            e.   Cupolas and domes which do not contain useable space;
            f.   Elevator penthouses;
            g.   Flag poles;
            h.   Monuments;
            i.   Parapet walls extending not more than three feet above the
limiting height of the building;
            j.   Water towers;
            k.   Necessary mechanical and electrical appurtenances;
            l.   Poles, towers, and other structures for essential services;
            m.   Personal wireless services and commercial broadcasting
antennas not exceeding 20 feet above the roof of the antenna support structure;
and
            n.   Antenna towers regulated by subsection
1005.02.
         2.   Exception Limits. No excluded roof equipment or structural
element extending beyond the limited height of a building may occupy more than
25% of the area of such roof nor exceed ten feet in height.
         3.   Modifications to topography of a lot may not be undertaken as a
means of achieving increased building height.
         4.   Additional building height may be approved by the City Council
with a conditional use permit pursuant to subsection
1002.08, and provided that:
            a.   The site is capable of accommodating the increased intensity
of the use;
            b.   The increased intensity of the use does not cause an increase
in traffic volumes beyond the capacity of the surrounding streets;
            c.   Public utilities and services are adequate; and
            d.   For each additional story over three stories or for each
additional ten feet above 40 feet, front and side yard setback requirements
shall be increased by 5%.
   Subd. 9.   Deferment for Existing Metal Buildings. An owner of an existing
metal building may apply for a conditional use permit to allow, for expansion
of the structure, a deferment from the exterior wall design requirements of
this subsection, provided:
         a.   The deferment shall be until the second construction phase is
complete or up to five years, whichever is less;
         b.   The building owner shall provide the city with an irrevocable
letter of credit or other form of security acceptable to the City Attorney, for
an amount one and one-half the estimated cost of the required exterior wall
treatment. The bank and letter of credit shall be subject to the approval of
the City Attorney. The letter of credit shall secure compliance with this
chapter; and
         c.   Exceptions to the provisions of this subsection may be granted
via a conditional use permit pursuant to subsection
1002.08, provided that:
            i.   The proposed building maintains the quality and value intended
by this section; and
            ii.   The proposed building is compatible and in harmony with other
structures within the district.
§ 1006.05 Fences and Walls.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection shall be to provide for
the regulation of fences in the city, to prevent fences from being erected that
would be a hazard to the public or an unreasonable interference with the use
and enjoyment of neighboring property, and are compatible with existing uses
and other zoning restrictions.
   Subd. 2.   Permit Required. Fences, retaining walls, and sound barriers as
defined in subsection
1001.02 shall not be constructed without a building or administrative permit.
The permit application shall be accompanied by a certificate of survey clearly
describing the type, location, and method of anchoring the fence, retaining
wall, or sound barrier. The owner shall be responsible for properly locating
all property lines before construction of any fence.
   Subd. 3.   General Provisions.
         1.   In all zoning districts, a fence not exceeding seven feet in
height may be erected in the rear yard and side yard areas up to the nearest
front corner of the principal building. In the event that a deck or porch is
located on the front of the structure, the seven-foot tall fence section
located along the side lot line(s) shall terminate at the front corner of the
principal building as opposed to the front of the porch/deck addition.
         2.   In residential districts, a fence not exceeding four feet in
height, and having at least 75% open area for passage of air and light, may be
erected on the front lot line and the side lot lines forward of a line drawn
across the front line of the principal building.
         3.   On lakeshore lots, a fence not exceeding four feet in height, and
having at least 75% open area for passage of air and light, may be erected on
the side lot lines behind the line drawn across the rear line of the principal
building.
         4.   Fences shall not be permitted within any right-of-way, clear view
triangle area, within the site visibility area adjacent to railroads, below the
100-year floodplain of any lake, river, or wetland, or in an emergency overflow
easement.
         5.   Fences shall not be permitted within ten feet of the curb and/or
surface of any street, road, or alley that is regularly snowplowed by the city
and is less than 40 feet in width.
         6.   Fences shall be installed so that the more finished side faces
the adjacent property. If the fence has posts on one side, the posts shall be
placed on the inside of the fence.
         7.   Barbed wire fences shall be prohibited in all zoning districts
with the exception of essential service structures, solar gardens, solar farms,
and rail car storage areas, provided it is approved as part of the site plan
process in subsection
1002.11. Barbed wire shall be limited to three feet high and may extend above
the maximum permitted fence height.
         8.   Fences shall be wood, chain link, wrought iron, vinyl, board and
picket, or similar material. Owners are responsible for ensuring property
maintenance and function.
         9.   Ornamental fences may be permitted in a front yard if not
designed or serving as an enclosure. Ornamental fences include such things as
split rail, picket, and brick, but not such things as chain link fences. The
maximum allowed height for a brick wall is three feet for a split rail, picket,
or wrought iron fence, four feet with at least 25% open area for passage of air
and light. Wrought iron and similar ornamental fences may be up to five feet in
height in commercial zoning districts.
         10.   Wood, plastic, vinyl, fabric, or other type of slats, when used
in combination with chain link fencing, shall not be permitted.
         11.   Snow fences shall be prohibited in the residential areas of the
city for any purpose other than marking areas for tree preservation as part of
an approved plan during the months of April through October.
         12.   Fences up to 16 feet in height may be permitted to enclose
public tennis courts or as back stops for public athletic fields provided all
other requirements of this subsection are met and that the backstop is setback
a minimum of 200 feet from residential structures. A conditional use permit
shall be required for fences taller than 16 feet for private tennis courts.
         13.   Fences which include a security gate at a point where access is
provided to the property and principal building may be approved if necessary
and appropriate as part of a site plan review.
         14.   No fence shall obstruct natural drainage. No fence shall be
placed within an easement that obstructs or impedes the free flow of surface
water from, or in any drainage easements. If a fence is constructed within the
easement and it is required to be removed, the city shall not be required to
pay compensation for any such fence.
   Subd. 4.   General Retaining Wall Provisions. Retaining walls shall be
constructed when required by the city to prevent damage to any public area such
as a sidewalk or street. Other retaining walls may be constructed under the
same restrictions as placed on fences.
         1.   Retaining walls shall be installed with strict adherence to all
manufacturers’ recommended standards.
         2.   No treated wood (railroad tie) retaining walls shall be allowed
within the city limits.
         3.   Plans for retaining walls shall be reviewed by the Building
Official and/or City Engineer if over three feet tall and/or proposed to be
located in a drainage and utility easement.
§ 1006.06 Landscaping.
   Subd. 1.   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to establish
requirements that are intended to contribute to the aesthetic environment of
the city, enhance livability, and foster economic development by providing an
attractive urban setting. This section is also intended to:
         1.   Protect, restore, preserve, and maintain the natural environment
throughout the development process;
         2.   Enhance the appearance, character, health, safety, and welfare of
the community;
         3.   Provide green spaces that can support the urban citywide tree
canopy, wildlife, such as birds, in the urban environment;
         4.   Increase the compatibility of adjacent uses, minimize adverse
impacts of noise, dust, debris, artificial light intrusions, activities, or
impacts to adjacent or surrounding uses; and
         5.   Contribute to the green infrastructure of the city to reduce air
pollutants, mitigate the urban heat island effect and storm water runoff
issues.
   Subd. 2.   General Landscaping and Maintenance.
         1.   All exposed ground areas, including street boulevards (landscaped
portion of right-of-way), and areas not devoted to off-street parking, drives,
sidewalks, patios, or other such improvements shall be landscaped with sod,
seed, shrubs, other ornamental landscape materials, and trees, except that
trees shall not be planted in boulevard portions of the public right-of-way
without approval from the City Engineer. Temporary erosion control measures
shall be installed and maintained in proper working order until permanent
erosion control measures are in place and functioning properly.
         2.   All landscaped areas shall be maintained by the property owner
and kept neat, clear, and uncluttered. Any required plant material which is
diseased or dies shall be replaced with like kind of the original size.
         3.   Plantings placed upon utility easements or public right-of-way
are subject to removal if required for maintenance or improvement of the
utility. In such cases, costs for removal and restoration shall be the
responsibility of the property owner.
         4.   Final grades with a slope ratio of greater than three-to-one
shall not be permitted without approval of the City Engineer and/or Building
Official and shall contain approved treatment such as special seed mixtures or
reforestation, terracing, or retaining walls. Berming used to provide required
screening shall not have slopes in excess of three-to-one.
         5.   All new plants shall be guaranteed for 12 months from the time
planting has been completed. All plants shall be alive, of good quality, and
disease free at the end of the warranty period or be replaced. Any replacements
shall be warranted for 12 months from the time of planting.
   Subd. 3.   Required Landscaping. Prior to approval of a building permit for
a new structure or building addition, all uses shall be subject to the
landscape provisions required herein.
         1.   Commercial, industrial, public, semi-public, institutional,
multiple-family residential, attached residential, parking lots for five or
more vehicles, and utility uses shall incorporate landscaping in conformance
with the following standards and criteria.
            a.   Landscape design shall place emphasis upon the boundary or
perimeter of the site at points adjoining the public right-of-way, other
property, and the immediate perimeter of the structure(s).
            b.   Plant materials shall be appropriate for the site conditions
(soils, climate, ground water, human-made irrigation, grading, and the like).
To the extent possible, native drought resistant plant materials/trees shall be
utilized.
            c.   Commercial, industrial, multiple-family, attached residential,
public, semi-public, and institutional uses shall install irrigation systems to
ensure survivability of landscape materials.
         2.   The trees fulfilling the requirements of this subsection shall be
not less than 25% deciduous and not less than 25% coniferous. The minimum
number of trees on any given site shall be as follows.
            a.   Single-Family Uses. Two trees per dwelling unit to be located
in the front yard.
            b.   Two-Family, Townhouse, and Multiple-Family Uses. Residential
structures containing two or more units shall contain, as a minimum, one tree
per dwelling unit.
            c.   Non-Residential Uses. Non-residential uses shall contain at a
minimum:
               i.   One tree per 1,000 square feet of gross building floor
area; and
               ii.   One shrub per 300 square feet of gross building floor
area.
            d.   Trees. An equivalent of up to 50% of the required number of
trees may be substituted with the use of trees in combination with ornamental
trees and/or shrubs. In such case, not less than three ornamental trees or ten
shrubs shall be provided for each one required tree substituted.
         3.   Minimum Size. All plants must at least equal the following
minimum size.
Table 28
Landscape Balled and Burlapped
Table 28
Landscape                  Balled and Burlapped
Evergreen trees            6 feet
Ornamental trees           2 inch diameter
Shade trees                2.5 inch diameter
Tall shrubs/hedge material 3-4 feet
 Evergreen                 24-30 inch height
 Low shrubs, deciduous     24-30 inch height
 Spreading evergreen       18-24 inch height
 
         4.   Spacing.
            a.   Plant material centers shall not be located closer than three
feet from a side property line or 12 feet from a front property line.
            b.   Where plant materials are planted in two or more rows,
plantings shall be staggered in rows unless otherwise approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
            c.   All tree and plant species shall be indigenous to the
appropriate hardiness zone and physical characteristics of the site. Prohibited
tree and plant species are identified in the following tables.
Table 29
Shrubs Scientific Name
Table 29
Shrubs                Scientific Name
Barberry, common      Berberis vulgaris
Barberry, Japanese    Berberis thunbergia
Honeysuckle, Japanese Lonicera japonica
Honeysuckle, Tatarian Lonicera tatarica
Siberian peashrub     Caragana arborescens
Winged burning bush   Euonymus alatus
Table 30
Trees Scientific Name
Table 30
Trees           Scientific Name
Amur maple      Acer ginnala
Ash             Fraxinus spp.
Black locust    Robinia pseudoacacia
Boxelder        Acer negundo
Buckthorn       Rhamnus spp.
Cottonwood      Populus deltoides
Elm, American   Ulmus americana
Elm, Siberian   Ulmus pumila
Ginkgo (female) Ginkgo biloba
Mulberry        Morass spp.
Norway maple    Acer platanoides
Russian olive   Eleagnus angustifolia
 
         5.   Sod and Ground Cover. All areas not otherwise improved in
accordance with approved site plans shall have a minimum depth of four inches
of topsoil (black dirt consisting of not more than 35% sand) and be sodded,
including boulevard areas located two feet behind the back of curb (for erosion
control). Exceptions to these criteria may be approved by the Zoning
Administrator as follows.
            a.   Seed may be provided in lieu of sod in any of the following
cases:
               i.   Where irrigation is present;
               ii.   Where the seed is applied to future expansion areas as
shown on approved plans;
               iii.   Where the seed is applied adjacent to natural areas or
wetlands (seed mixture to be approved by the City Engineer); and
               iv.   Where the seed is applied to low maintenance areas
alongside principal arterials (U.S. Highway 10) as defined by the Comprehensive
Plan.
            b.   Undisturbed areas containing existing viable natural
vegetation which can be maintained free of foreign and noxious plant materials.
            c.   Areas designated as open space or future expansion areas
properly planted and maintained with prairie grass or wild flowers. Seed
mixture to be approved by the City Engineer. Native prairie grass or
wildflowers may be allowed in other areas subject to Zoning Administrator
review and approval of a landscape plan.
            d.   Use of mulch materials such as bark, wood chips, and
decorative block in support of shrubs and foundation plantings.
            e.   Storm water management ponds shall be seeded with native
wetland species as approved by the City Engineer. The perimeter of “dry ponds”
shall be landscaped with plants and wildflower seed/stock subject to the
approval of the City Engineer.
            f.   To achieve ornamental grass, a minimum depth of four inches of
topsoil (black dirt consisting of not more than 35% sand) shall be placed on
the affected areas before seeding. A minimum depth of two inches of topsoil
shall be placed on the affected areas before sodding. Ornamental grass shall be
guaranteed for a full two years from the time planting is completed.
   Subd. 4.   Required Screening.
         1.   Non-Residential Uses. Where any non-residential use abuts
property zoned for residential use, screening shall be provided along the
boundary adjacent to the residential property. Screening shall also be provided
where a non-residential use is across the street from a residential zone, but
not on that side of a business, industry, or institutional building considered
to be the front (as determined by the Zoning Administrator). The screening
shall consist of a greenbelt strip, buffer yard, or other screening as provided
for below.
            a.   A greenbelt planting strip shall consist of evergreen trees
and/or deciduous trees and plants and shall be a minimum of ten feet in width
and of a sufficient density to provide a visual screen and reasonable buffer.
This planting strip shall be designed to provide visual screening to achieve a
75% opacity year-round and to a minimum height of six feet. The grade for
determining height shall be the grade elevation of the building or use for
which the screening is providing protection, unless otherwise established by
the Zoning Administrator. The planting plan and type of plantings shall require
the approval of the Zoning Administrator.
            b.   A fence or earth berm may also be installed, but not in lieu
of the greenbelt plant materials. Earth berms may be used but shall also be
planted with landscape screening materials. A fence shall be constructed of
masonry, brick, steel, vinyl, or wood, except as otherwise provided herein.
Such fence shall provide a solid screening effect and shall be a minimum of six
feet in height. The grade for determining height shall be the grade elevation
of the building or use for which the screening is providing protection, unless
otherwise established by the Zoning Administrator. The design and materials
used in constructing a required screen shall be subject to the approval of the
Zoning Administrator.
         2.   Multiple-Family Uses. Where multiple-family buildings of three or
more units abut property zoned or developed with a less dense residential use,
the higher density residential use shall provide screening along all off-street
parking and outdoor recreational activity areas and between multiple-family and
single-family dwelling units to mitigate possible adverse impacts.
         3.   Buffer Yards. Buffer yards shall be located along lot lines for
residential lots that abut major collector or arterial roads, railroad right-
of-way, or overhead power lines.
            a.   Buffer Yard Requirements. Except as may be approved by the
City Council, lots which border major collector, arterial street, overhead
power lines, or railroad right-of-way shall provide a minimum 20-foot buffer
yard in addition to the required lot width and depth requirements of the
underlying zoning district, to screen homes from said streets, power lines, or
railroad right-of-way. With the exception of those lots which are located
adjacent to power lines or railroad right-of-way, buffer yards shall be
maintained.
            b.   Buffer Yard Landscape Design Standards.
               i.   Plantings. All designated buffer yards must be seeded or
sodded except in areas of steep slopes where natural vegetation is acceptable,
and planted with trees and shrubs as approved by the Zoning Administrator. All
plantings within designated buffer yards shall adhere to the following.
                  (a)   Deciduous shrubs shall not be planted more than four
feet on center, and/or evergreen shrubs shall not be planted more than three
feet on center.
                  (b)   Deciduous trees intended for screening shall be planted
not more than 40 feet apart. Evergreen trees intended for screening shall be
planted not more than 15 feet apart.
               ii.   Accessory Structures. Accessory buildings shall not be
located within designated buffer yards.
               iii.   Earth Berms. Earth berms within designated buffer yards:
                  (a)   Shall contain no less than four inches of topsoil; and
                  (b)   Landscaping proposed in conjunction with berms shall be
planted in a manner that does not result in a single row of plants along the
top of the berm. Landscaping shall be grouped and provided to accomplish visual
interest as well as screening.
   Subd. 5.   Financial Guarantee. A financial guarantee consistent with
Section
1109 shall be received prior to the issuance of any building permit or permit
for land alteration.
§ 1006.07 General Use Standards.
The purpose of this subsection is to establish standards for specific uses to
ensure they maintain the general welfare, public health, and safety of the
city.
   Subd. 1.   Accessory dwelling unit, provided that:
         1.   A building unit is required for all accessory dwelling units;
         2.   One attached or detached accessory dwelling unit shall be allowed
as an accessory use to a single-family dwelling;
         3.   An attached or detached accessory dwelling unit shall comply with
the same minimum building setback requirements as required for the principal
dwelling unit;
         4.   An accessory dwelling unit shall be a clearly incidental and
subordinate use, the gross floor area of which shall not exceed the gross floor
area of the principal dwelling unit or 1,000 square feet, whichever is less;
         5.   The exterior design of an accessory dwelling unit shall
incorporate a similar architectural style, roof pitch, colors, and materials as
the principal building on the lot, and shall be compatible with the character
of the surrounding residential buildings;
         6.   There shall be no separate ownership of the accessory dwelling
unit;
         7.   In addition to the parking spaces required for the principal
dwelling unit on the lot, two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for
an accessory dwelling unit. Such accessory dwelling unit parking spaces shall
not conflict with the principal dwelling unit parking spaces and shall comply
with the requirements of this chapter;
         8.   An accessory dwelling unit shall have a separate address from the
principal dwelling unit on the lot and shall be identified with address
numbers;
         9.   The principal dwelling unit and accessory unit shall be created
and maintained in compliance with the Building Code; and
         10.   The principal dwelling unit and accessory dwelling unit shall be
connected to municipal sewer and water.
   Subd. 2.   Assisted living facility, but not including hospitals or similar
institutions, provided that:
         1.   Side yard setbacks shall be double the minimum requirements
established for the zoning district;
         2.   Only the rear yard shall be used for recreational areas. Said
areas shall be fenced and controlled and screened as required by this chapter;
         3.   If the facility exceeds a density of ten units per acre or is
greater than 24 units total, the site shall be served by an arterial or
collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate traffic which is
generated;
         4.   All state laws and statutes governing such use are strictly
adhered to and all required operating permits are secured;
         5.   The following commercial uses shall be allowed accessory to
assisted living facilities and may be approved as part of the conditional use
permit. It is the intent of this subsection that said uses primarily serve and
benefit the residents of said facilities.
            a.   Financial institutions;
            b.   Personal services;
            c.   Limited retail sales;
            d.   Newsstand;
            e.   Pharmacy; and
            f.   Clinics.
         6.   Performance Standards. All accessory uses listed herein shall
conform to the following provisions.
            a.   Location. All uses shall be located completely within the
principal structure of the residential facility.
            b.   Access. No separate exterior entrance or exit shall be allowed
for any accessory use(s).
            c.   Signage. No exterior signage of any type shall be allowed for
any accessory use(s).
            d.   Size. All combined commercial accessory uses within a single
building shall not exceed 3,000 square feet gross floor area.
            e.   Hours. No accessory use shall be open for operation between
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
            f.   Parking. Sufficient parking for the commercial use(s) shall be
provided in accordance with subsection
1006.03.
   Subd. 3.   Canopies associated with automobile service stations and
convenience stores with gasoline and located over pump islands or associated
with banks shall be allowed as accessory structures, subject to the following
provisions.
         1.   Canopy setbacks shall be a minimum of 15 feet from the property
line. Adequate visibility both on- and off-site must also be maintained.
         2.   Maximum canopy height may not exceed 20 feet and shall provide a
minimum clearance of 14 feet.
         3.   Canopy facades may not exceed three feet in height.
         4.   Canopy lighting shall be recessed, and reflected glare or spill
light may not exceed five-tenths foot candles, as measured on the property line
when abutting residentially zoned property and one foot candle measured on the
property line when abutting other commercial or industrially zoned property.
         5.   Signage may be allowed on the canopy as permitted by City Code
Chapter 13.
   Subd. 4.   Car washes (drive-through, mechanical, and self-service);
provided that the following are met.
         1.   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or area as to
cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence within
a reasonable distance of the lot.
         2.   Magazine or stacking space is constructed, with screening, to
accommodate that number of vehicles which can be washed during a maximum 30-
minute period and shall be subject to the approval of the city.
         3.   The entire area other than occupied by the building or plantings
shall be surfaced with bituminous surfacing and surrounded by continuous
perimeter concrete curbing. Site surfacing and drainage is subject to the
approval of the city.
         4.   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum
of conflict with through traffic movement, and shall be subject to the approval
of the city.
         5.   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise in accordance
with the noise control provisions of this chapter.
   Subd. 5.   Cemeteries or memorial gardens; provided that the following are
met.
         1.   The use is public or semi-public; and
         2.   The use meets the minimum setback requirements for principal
structures.
   Subd. 6.   Day care facility. a state licensed facility, either as a
primary, stand alone, or accessory use, provided that the following are met.
         1.   Outdoor Play Area.
            a.   Outdoor play areas and parking areas are landscaped and
screened from abutting residential properties and arterial and collector
roadways in compliance with subsection
1006.06;
            b.   Outdoor play areas are fenced and enclosed; and
            c.   Outdoor play areas are not allowed within the required front
yard setbacks.
         2.   The site and related parking and service are served by a street
of sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic which will be generated.
         3.   Adequate off-street parking is provided in a location separated
from any outdoor play area(s). Adequate short-term parking or drop off area is
provided within close-proximity to the main entrance.
         4.   The conditions of all applicable Minnesota rules and regulations
are satisfactorily met. No facility shall begin operation without a state
license. Proof of approved applicable state licenses shall be provided to the
Zoning Administrator.
   Subd. 7.   Day care as a conditional accessory use.
         1.   Accessory Use. The day care facility is an accessory use, located
within the building of the principal permitted use and provided for employees
of the principal use.
         2.   Outdoor Play Area. Outdoor play areas and parking areas are
landscaped and screened from abutting residential properties in compliance with
subsection 1006.06.
   Subd. 8.   Detached off-site accessory building associated with a single-
family residential use, provided that:
         1.   The land upon which the accessory building is to be located is
under the same ownership as the land to which it is to be an accessory;
         2.   All applicable building setback and performance standards of this
chapter are satisfactorily met;
         3.   The lot upon which the principal structure (detached single-
family dwelling) exists does not comply with minimum area requirements of the
zoning district in which it is located;
         4.   The lot upon which the off-site accessory structure is to be
located:
            a.   Does not abut the side yard of the lot upon which the
principal structure (detached single-family dwelling) exists;
            b.   Does not comply with minimum area requirements of the zoning
district in which it is located;
            c.   Lies not more than 100 feet from the lot upon which the
principal structure (detached single-family dwelling) exists;
            d.   If the lot abuts an alley, access is provided only via the
alley; and
            e.   Is formally bound to the property on which the principal use
is located through a deed restriction which is subject to the approval of the
City Attorney. Said deed restriction shall be filed with the County Recorder or
Registrar of Deeds and written evidence of recording shall be provided to the
city prior to issuance of a building permit for the accessory structure.
         5.   The accessory structure is used solely by the owner of the
principal structure (detached single-family dwelling) to which it is an
accessory and shall not be rented or leased;
         6.   No home occupation activities are conducted in the off-site
accessory structure;
         7.   Use of the off-site accessory structure is limited primarily to
vehicle storage with a maximum of 20% of the accessory structures area being
devoted to the storage of other equipment or materials; and
         8.   The provisions of subsection
1002.08 are considered and determined to be satisfied.
   Subd. 9.   Drive-Through Lanes. Drive-through lanes shall comply with the
following.
         1.   The principal building shall be located only on a site having
direct access to a minor arterial street, collector or service road.
         2.   All portions of the business with drive through facilities
established after July 20, 2002 (effective date of ordinance), including, but
not limited to, the building in which they are located, service windows and
stacking spaces, shall be located across an arterial or collector street from
residentially zoned or guided property, or shall be set back at least 150 feet
from residentially zoned or guided property and provide a buffer yard
consistent with the provisions of subsection
1006.06.
         3.   No part of the public street or boulevard may be used for
stacking of automobiles.
         4.   The facility’s public address system shall not be audible from
any adjacent residentially zoned or guided property and comply with the
provisions of subsection 1006.01.
         5.   Businesses with one drive-through lane shall provide stacking
space for at least ten vehicles, and businesses with two or more drive through
lanes shall provide stacking space for at least six vehicles per lane, as
measured from and including the last pick up station, window, or the like.
Stacking spaces shall not interfere with parking spaces or traffic circulation.
         6.   The applicant shall demonstrate that such use will not
significantly lower the existing level of service on streets and intersections.
         7.   All elements of the drive through service area, including, but
not limited to, menu boards, order stations, teller windows, and vehicle lights
from the stacking lanes, shall be screened from adjacent residentially zoned or
guided property pursuant to subsection
1006.06.
         8.   A lighting and photometric plan will be required that illustrates
that the drive-through service lane lighting shall comply with subsection
1006.01.
         9.   The stacking lane, order board intercom, and window placement
shall be designed and located in such a manner as to minimize noises and glare
as to adjacent premises, particularly residential premises, and to maximize
maneuverability of vehicles on the site.
         10.   The stacking lanes and their drive’s access must be designed to
control traffic in a manner to protect the buildings and green area on the
site.
         11.   The hours of operation may be limited as necessary to minimize
the nuisance factor such as traffic, noise, or glare.
   Subd. 10.   Essential service structures, provided that:
         1.   No building shall be located within 50 feet from any lot line of
an abutting lot in a residential zoning district; and
         2.   The architectural design of the service structure shall be
compatible to the neighborhood in which it is to be located.
   Subd. 11.   A state licensed facility serving seven or more persons,
provided the facility is licensed by the state and the operator of the facility
provides documentation of compliance with all applicable federal, state, and
county regulations.
   Subd. 12.   Kennels, commercial; provided that they are only allowed as a
secondary use.
   Subd. 13.   Motor fuel stations; provided that the following are met.
         1.   Regardless of whether the dispensing, sale or offering for sale
of motor fuels and/or oil is incidental to the conduct of the use or business,
the standards and requirements imposed by this Section for motor fuel stations
shall apply. These standards and requirements are, however, in addition to
other requirements which are imposed for other uses of the property.
         2.   Motor fuel facilities are installed in accordance with state and
local standards. Additionally, adequate space shall be provided to access gas
pumps and to allow maneuverability around the pumps. Underground fuel storage
tanks are to be positioned to allow adequate access by motor fuel transports
and unloading operations do not conflict with circulation, access, and other
activities on the site.
         3.   Fuel pumps shall be installed on pump islands. Pump islands and
their related parking and maneuvering aisle shall be located no closer to the
street or adjacent property line than 30 feet. Fuel pump islands shall not
encroach upon street right-of-way, pedestrian areas, or adjacent property.
         4.   Minor auto repair sites shall have a minimum lot area of 22,500
square feet.
         5.   Motor fuel facilities shall be accompanied by a commercial
building having a minimum floor area of 1,600 square feet. The architectural
appearance and functional plan of the building and site shall not be so
dissimilar to the existing buildings or areas to cause impairment in property
values or constitute a blighting influence within a reasonable distance of the
lot.
         6.   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be surfaced with either concrete or bituminous to
control dust and drainage. Site surfacing and drainage is subject to the
approval of the city.
         7.   A curb not less than six inches above grade shall separate the
public sidewalk from motor vehicle service areas.
         8.   At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than ten feet shall be landscaped and screened in accordance with subsection
1006.06.
         9.   Magazine or stacking space is constructed with screening subject
to approval of the city.
         10.   An internal site pedestrian circulation system shall be defined,
and appropriate provision made to protect such areas from encroachments by
parked cars or moving vehicles.
         11.   Noise control shall be as required in subsection
1006.01.
         12.   No outdoor storage, except as allowed in compliance with this
chapter, may occur on-site.
         13.   There shall be no outdoor service operation of lubrication
equipment, hydraulic lifts of service pits, tire changing, drive systems repair
and tuning, or similar operations.
         14.   Sale of products other than those specifically mentioned in this
sub-section shall be limited to those allowed in this district and shall be
subject to approval as part of the conditional use permit.
         15.   Open storage of motor vehicles shall not be permitted for a
period of more than 48 hours and said open storage areas shall be screened in
accordance with subsection
1006.06.
         16.   No sales or rental of motor vehicles, trailers, or campers shall
be permitted.
   Subd. 14.   Motor vehicle sales, service, leasing/rental, and repair is
allowed as a conditional use provided that the following are met.
         1.   The minimum building size for any auto sales use shall comply
with the following standards.
 
Parcel Size                  Lot Coverage % Minimum Building Size
Up to 2 acres                5%             2,500 square feet
More than 2 acres to 4 acres 10%            10,000 square feet
More than 4 acres            15%            40,000 square feet
 
         2.   The subject site must be accessible from a major arterial or
collector street as defined by the City Comprehensive Plan.
         3.   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or area as to
cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence within
a reasonable distance of the lot. All sides of the principal and accessory
structures are to have essentially the same or a coordinated, harmonious finish
treatment.
         4.   The minimum lot area shall be one acre. The minimum lot width
shall be 100 feet.
         5.   The outdoor automobile sales/leasing/rental area shall not be
greater than one and one-half times the gross floor area of the principal
building. A minimum of 280 square feet of sales/leasing/rental area per vehicle
shall be provided.
         6.   All parking areas, driveways, outdoor storage areas shall be at
least ten feet from all side and rear property lines. The area shall be
screened and landscaped as provided for in subsection
1006.06.
         7.   Outdoor motor vehicle sales/leasing/rental display area may be
permitted within the required front yard, provided the following criteria are
met.
            a.   The outdoor sales/leasing/rental area does not exceed 40% of
the required front yard.
            b.   The outdoor sales/leasing/rental area shall not be less than
ten feet from the front lot line.
            c.   The required display area setback shall be curbed and
landscaped to prevent vehicle encroachment into the front yard and side yard
setback areas.
            d.   Front yard display area shall comply with the sales/leasing/
rental area per vehicle of Subd. 14(5) above.
            e.   The front yard display area shall not be used for customer or
employee parking.
         8.   The outdoor storage of waste material, debris, refuse, damaged
vehicles, and junk vehicles parts and the like shall be contained within a
specifically defined area of the site no greater than 10% of the total site
area. Said area must be located in the rear yard and encompassed by a minimum
six- foot high screened and secured, privacy fence. Said fence must be
accompanied by landscape plantings along all sides which face adjoining
properties. No outdoor storage of any kind is allowed on the rooftop of any
building on the site. Areas intended for the storage of damaged vehicles that
may result in the loss of motor vehicle fluids (i.e. gasoline, oil, antifreeze,
transmission fluid, battery acid, and the like) shall be designed to prevent
the infiltration or drainage of these fluids into area soils or storm water
runoff and prevent the deterioration of parking and storage area surface.
         9.   The outdoor repair of motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts
anywhere on the property is prohibited.
   Subd. 15.   Outdoor dining as an accessory use for restaurants, brewpubs,
taprooms, drive-in, and convenience food establishments. This accessory use
does not include and does not limit temporary uses regulated in subsection
1002.10. Outdoor dining is subject to the following conditions.
         1.   The applicant is required to submit a site plan and other
pertinent information demonstrating the location and type of all tables, refuse
receptacles, and wait stations.
         2.   The dining area is screened from view from adjacent residential
uses by a buffer yard and fence in accordance with subsection
1006.05 and
1006.06.
         3.   All lighting be hooded and directed away from adjacent
residential uses in accordance with subsection
1006.01.
         4.   The applicant demonstrates that pedestrian circulation is not
disrupted as a result of the outdoor dining area by providing the following.
            a.   Outdoor dining area shall be segregated from through
pedestrian circulation by means of temporary fencing, bollards, ropes,
plantings, or other methods, and shall be subject to review and approval by the
Zoning Administrator.
            b.   Minimum clear passage zone for pedestrians at the perimeter of
the restaurant shall be at least five feet without interference from parked
motor vehicles, bollards, trees, tree gates, curbs, stairways, trash
receptacles, street lights, parking meters, or the like.
            c.   Overstory canopy of trees, umbrellas, or other structures
extending into the pedestrian clear passage zone or pedestrian aisle shall have
a minimum clearance of eight feet above the sidewalk.
         5.   The dining area is surfaced with concrete, bituminous or
decorative pavers, or may consist of a deck with wood or other flooring
material that provides a clean, attractive, and functional surface.
         6.   A minimum width of 36 inches shall be provided within aisles of
the outdoor dining area.
         7.   Storage of furniture shall not be permitted on the sidewalk
between November 1 and March 31. Sidewalk furniture that is immovable or
permanently fixed or attached to the sidewalk shall not be subject to the
storage prohibition of this subsection. However, any immovable or permanently
fixed or attached furniture must be approved as part of the administrative
permit application.
         8.   Additional off-street parking shall be required pursuant to the
requirements set forth in subsection
1006.03, based upon the additional seating area provided by the outdoor dining
area.
         9.   Refuse containers are provided for self-service outdoor dining
areas. Such containers shall be placed in a manner which does not disrupt
pedestrian circulation, and must be designed to prevent spillage and blowing
litter.
   Subd. 16.   Open or outdoor service, sale, and rental is an accessory use
under a conditional use permit provided that the following are met.
         1.   Outside services, sales, and equipment rental connected with the
principal use is limited to 30% of the gross floor area of the principal use.
         2.   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of
neighboring residential uses or an abutting “R” District in compliance with
subsection
1006.06.
         3.   Sales area is surfaced with asphalt or concrete to control dust,
mud, and to provide clean and useable surface.
         4.   The use shall be setback at least ten feet from all property
lines.
   Subd. 17.   Outdoor storage, accessory, provided that the following are met.
         1.   The outdoor storage area shall not be located in the front yard.
         2.   The outdoor storage area shall be fully fenced, screened, and/or
landscaped according to a plan in compliance with subsection
1006.06 and subject to the approval of the Zoning Administrator from all public
rights-of-way, commercial land uses, and residential land uses.
         3.   Surface area:
            a.   In the I-2 Zoning District, the outdoor storage area is
surfaced with asphalt or other similar material to control dust and weeds and
subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
            b.   In the I-3 Zoning District, the outdoor storage area is
surfaced with a material to control dust and weeds and subject to the approval
of the City Engineer. Outdoor storage directly upon grass or landscaping is
prohibited.
         4.   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light
source shall not be visible from the public right-of-way or from neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance within subsection
1006.01.
         5.   The outdoor storage area shall not encroach upon required parking
space or required loading space as required by this chapter.
         6.   The property stored shall not include any waste, except as
provided for in subsection
1006.01.
         7.   The outdoor storage area shall not encroach into the required
rear yard or side yard setback area if abutting a residential district.
         8.   Procedure:
            a.   In the I-2 District, an interim use permit is required.
            b.   In the I-3 District, an administrative permit may be issued
provided the ratio of storage area to building footprint does not exceed seven-
to-one. An interim use permit is required to exceed the maximum ratio of seven-
to-one.
   Subd. 18.   Public, educational, and religious buildings; provided that the
following are met.
         1.   No building shall be located within 50 feet of any lot line
abutting residential districts.
         2.   If the use contains outdoor operations, the following shall be
met.
            a.   Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure or
screened. Water towers shall be exempt from this provision.
            b.   Open storage of maintenance equipment and trucks over one and
one-half tons, stockpiling of aggregate or other materials, and open storage of
shall not be permitted.
   Subd. 19.   Recreational field, structure, or building; provided that:
         1.   Principal structures shall be located 100 feet or more from any
lot line; and
         2.   Accessory structures and parking areas shall be located a minimum
of 50 feet from any lot line.
   Subd. 20.   Septic and well development may be allowed on parcels identified
as 65-026-2201 and 65-026-2000 and as described in subsection
1006.02 prior to municipal utilities provided that:
         1.   The proposed development is consistent with the Land Use Plan in
the adopted Comprehensive Plan;
         2.   The proposed development will not preclude full utilization of
the site development potential when municipal infrastructure services are
available;
         3.   The property does not have sewer and water immediately available
to the site. Sewer and water is considered available when the property is
located within 1,000 feet of any municipal water and sanitary sewer mains;
         4.   The applicant will provide temporary on-site wells and septic
until municipal sanitary sewer and water are available;
         5.   The site is designed to accommodate sewer and water connections
as determined by the City Engineer;
         6.   The use may continue until city sewer and water are extended to
the property line of the site. When connection to the municipal sanitary sewer
system and water system is available at the property, such connections shall be
made within three years and sanitary sewer and water distribution facilities
shall be adequate to serve the development. The applicant agrees to pay all
area charges and connection fees upon connection to municipal infrastructure;
         7.   The use will not result in groundwater, soil, or other
contamination which may endanger the public health;
         8.   The use will not prematurely require or increase future city
utility service demands and expense; and
         9.   The use will not jeopardize public safety and general welfare.
   Subd. 21.   Short-term rental; provided that:
         1.   No person shall operate a short-term rental dwelling building or
unit without first having obtained a license to do so from the city in
conformance with Section
915. The required administrative permit is processed as a license if no site
modifications are being completed;
         2.   Tents, campers, trailers, and similar may not be rented out or
used as residences. Only those places of residence with active certificates of
occupancy (CO) for habitation may be rented;
         3.   The short-term rental dwelling building or unit shall be
compliant with all local, state, and federal regulations; and
         4.   Rental units may be inspected by the Building Official, health
authority, fire prevention officer, and/or such other inspectors as the city
deems necessary for purposes of this Section.
   Subd. 22.   Truck or freight terminal; provided that:
         1.   All servicing of vehicles and equipment shall occur entirely
within the principal structure;
         2.   To the extent required by state law and regulations, painting
shall be conducted in an approved paint booth, which thoroughly controls the
emission of fumes, dust, or other particulated matter;
         3.   Storage and use of all flammable materials, including liquids and
rags, shall conform to applicable provisions of the state uniform fire code;
         4.   Parking, driveway, and circulation standards and requirements
shall be subject to the review and approval of the city and shall be based upon
the specific needs of the operation and shall accommodate large vehicle
equipment and semi-trailer/tractor trucks; and
         5.   The storage of damaged vehicles and vehicle parts and accessory
equipment must be completely inside a principal or accessory building.
   Subd. 23.   Vehicle rental as an accessory use, subject to the following
conditions.
         1.   The principal use must feature a building with a minimum size of
2,500 square feet.
         2.   The interim use permit is non-transferable and terminates
automatically upon the sale or closure of the business that has obtained the
interim use permit.
         3.   The subject site must be accessible from a major arterial or
collector street as defined by the City Comprehensive Plan.
         4.   The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
         5.   Outdoor motor vehicle rental display area may be permitted within
the required front yard provided the following criteria are met.
            a.   The outdoor rental area does not exceed 40% of the required
front yard.
            b.   The outdoor rental area shall not be less than ten feet from
the front lot line.
            c.   Outdoor storage of rental vehicles shall not be permitted to
obstruct the view of the building’s facade from the street. For buildings with
multiple facades, this rule shall apply to each facade.
         6.   The outdoor repair of motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts
anywhere on the property is prohibited.
         7.   In addition to the required parking for the principal use or
activity, one off-street parking stall for every 1,000 square feet of outdoor
motor vehicle rental area shall be required. The rental areas shall be clearly
marked to differentiate them from customer parking areas.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 6-14-2023)
CHAPTER 11: SUBDIVISION
Section
      
1101.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
1102.   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT AND LOT CONSOLIDATION
      
1103.   SIMPLE SUBDIVISION
      
1104.   CONCEPT PLAN
      
1105.   PRELIMINARY PLAT
      
1106.   FINAL PLAT
      
1107.   DESIGN STANDARDS
      
1108.   PARK DEDICATION
      
1109.   REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
      
1110.   ENFORCEMENT
      
1111.   SEVERABILITY, SUPREMACY, AND EFFECTIVE DATE
Subsection
Section 1101: General Provisions
   
1101.01   Title
   
1101.02   Purpose
   
1101.03   Scope
   
1101.04   Definitions
   
1101.05   Conflicting Regulations
   
1101.06   Registered Land Surveys
   
1101.07   Issuance of Building Permits
   
1101.08   Premature Subdivisions
   
1101.09   Variance
   
1101.10   Petition for Vacation
Section 1102: Lot Line Adjustment and Lot Consolidation
   
1102   Lot Line Adjustment and Lot Consoldiation
Section 1103: Simple Subdivision
   
1103.01   Purpose
   
1103.02   Information Required
   
1103.03   Procedure
Section 1104: Concept Plan
   
1104.01   Purpose
   
1104.02   Information Required
   
1104.03   Procedure
Section 1105: Preliminary Plat
   
1105.01   Purpose
   
1105.02   Information Required
   
1105.03   Procedure
Section 1106: Final Plat
   
1106.01   Purpose
   
1106.02   Information Required
   
1106.03   Procedure
Section 1107: Design Standards
   
1107.01   Design Standards
   
1107.02   Land Requirements
   
1107.03   Blocks
   
1107.04   Lots
   
1107.05   Streets and Alleys
   
1107.06   Easements
   
1107.07   Storm Water Management
   
1107.08   Erosion and Sediment Control
   
1107.09   Public Utilities
   
1107.10   Flood Warning Signs in FEMA Designated Flood Areas
   
1107.11   Tree Protection and Replacement
Section 1108: Park Dedication
   
1108   Parl Dedication
Section 1109: Required Improvements
   
1109.01   Required Improvements
Section 1110: Enforcement
   
1110.01   Violations
   
1110.02   Penalties
   
1110.03   Application to City Personnel
   
1110.04   Injunction
Section 1111: Severability, Supremacy, and Effective Date
   
1111.01   Severability
   
1111.02   Supremacy
   
1111.03   Effective Date
SECTION 1101: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1101.01 Title.
This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Ordinance of the City of Big
Lake.”
§ 1101.02 Purpose.
In order to safeguard the best interests of the city and to assist the
subdivider in harmonizing his or her interests with those of the city at large,
this chapter is adopted in order that adherence to this chapter will bring
results beneficial to both parties. It is the purpose of this chapter to make
certain regulations and requirements for the subdivision of land within the
city pursuant to the authority contained in state statutes, which regulations
the City Council deems necessary for the health, safety, and general welfare of
this community.
§ 1101.03 Scope.
The provisions of this chapter relate to any division of a parcel of land into
two or more parcels by platting, conveyance, registered land survey, or other
means, and the combination of any two or more such adjoining parcels.
§ 1101.04 Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Alley. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street.
Applicant. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided, or that person’s
representative.
Block. An area of land within a plat, consisting of one or more lots, which
area is normally bounded by streets, or an exterior boundary of the plat, a
river, or lake, or a combination of such boundaries or features.
Boulevard. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb and the
property line.
Buildable Land. Contiguous land area occurring within the property lines of a
parcel of lot excluding wetlands, watercourses, ponds, public waters below the
ordinary high water mark and easements for pipelines and utility transmission
lines.
Building. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.
Certificate of Survey. A land survey prepared by a land surveyor registered in
the state with a certification that the information on the land survey is
accurate.
Common Open Space. Any open space including parks, nature areas, playgrounds,
trails, and recreational buildings and structures owned in common by a group of
property owners.
Comprehensive Plan. The group of maps, charts, and texts that make up the
development goals of the city.
Covenants. Restrictions, usually recorded, as to the manner in which land or a
structure thereon may be used.
Cul-de-sac. A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
Design Standards. The specifications for the preparation of preliminary and
final plats indicating, among other things, the optimum, minimum, or maximum
dimensions of such items as rights-of-way, blocks, easements, and lots.
Diameter at Breast Height. The diameter of a tree measured at diameter breast
height (four and one-half feet from the uphill side of the existing ground
level). If a tree splits into multiple trunks below four and one-half feet,
then the trunk is measured at its narrowest point beneath the split.
Easement. A grant by a property owner for the use of land for the purpose of
constructing and maintaining access, drainage, or utilities, including, but not
limited to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines,
storm sewers or storm drainageways, and gas lines.
Essential Services. The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by
private or public utilities, or municipal departments of underground or
overhead telephone, gas, electrical, steam, hot water, waste, or water
transmission, distribution, collection, supply, or disposal systems, including
poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes,
police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith for the furnishing of adequate service by
such private or public utilities or municipal departments. Essential services
shall not include waste facilities.
Final Plat. A drawing or map of a subdivision meeting all of the requirements
of the city and in such form as required by the county for the purpose of
recording.
Improvement, Public. Any improvement or facility for which a governmental body,
including, but not limited to, the city or a school district, may assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which such responsibility already exists.
Lot. Land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, together with such open spaces as are required under the provisions
of the city zoning regulations having not less than the minimum area required
by the zoning regulations for a building site in the district in which such lot
is situated and having its principal frontage on a street. This definition does
not include outlots.
Lot, Butt. A lot located at the end of a block and located between two corner
lots.
Lot, Corner. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which is 135 degrees or less.
 Lot Depth. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot (the greater frontage of a corner lot shall be deemed
its depth and the lesser frontage its width).
Lot, Double Frontage. A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines abutting two
substantially parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot.
Lot, Flag. A lot without the required full lot width on a public roadway and
with access to the public roadway provided to the bulk of the lot by means of a
narrow strip or private easement.
Lot, Frontage. The front of a lot shall be, for the purposes of complying with
this chapter, that boundary abutting a public right-of-way having the least
width.
Lot Line. A property line bounding a lot except that where any portion of a lot
extends into the public right-of-way, the lot line shall be deemed to be the
boundary of said public right-of-way.
Lot, Through. A lot fronting on two parallel streets.
Lot Width. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot depth, at the minimum front building setback line.
Outlot. A remnant parcel of land created during the platting process, which
parcel is intended as open space or other use, or for future development or
platting.
Owner. A person having a legal or equitable title to, or some other possessory
interest in, land.
Pedestrian Way. A public right-of-way or private easement across a block or
within a block to provide access for pedestrians.
Plat. The drawing or map of a subdivision prepared for filing of record
pursuant to M.S. Chapter 505, as it may be amended from time to time, and
containing all elements and requirements set forth in M.S. Chapter 505, as it
may be amended from time to time, and in this chapter.
Preliminary Plat. A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision meeting
requirements enumerated in this chapter. The term also refers to a stage of the
subdivision review process and its required submittals.
Right-of-Way. Unencumbered land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another uses
specifically permitted by the City Council. The usage of the term “right-of-
way” for land platting purposes shall mean that every right of way hereafter
established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the
lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and not included within the
dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Right-of-way intended for streets,
water main, sanitary sewers, storm drains, or any other use involving
maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the
recording of the plat on which such right-of-way is established.
Setback. The required distance between a building and the property line nearest
thereto.
Simple Subdivision. A review procedure for subdivisions which contains not more
than four lots and which does not require the construction of any new street.
Street. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians or
vehicles, or both, to abutting properties, whether designated as a street,
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, or boulevard.
Street, Collector. Those streets which carry traffic from local streets to the
major system of arterials and highways. Collector streets primarily provide
principal access to residential neighborhoods, including, to a lesser degree,
direct land access.
Street, Local. A street which is used primarily for access to abutting
properties and for local traffic.
Street, Arterial. Those streets carrying larger volumes of traffic and serving
as links between various areas of the community, city, and metropolitan area.
Such streets are intended to provide for collection and distribution of traffic
between highways and collector streets.
Street Width. The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
street’s right-of-way.
Subdivision. A described tract of land which pursuant to the requirements of
this chapter and state statutes is to be or has been divided into two or more
parcels, or combined with an adjoining parcel so as to form one lot or parcel.
The term includes conveyance, plats and platting, registered land surveys, and
other means of division or joinder and, where it is appropriate to the context,
relates either to the process of dividing or combining or to the land divided,
combined, platted or conveyed. Does not include the following separations,
which are exempted from the subdivision process by M.S. § 462.358, subd. 4b, as
it may be amended from time to time:
         1.   Where all the resulting parcels, tracts, lots, or interests will
be 20 acres or larger in size and 500 feet in width for residential uses and
five acres or larger in size for commercial and industrial uses;
         2.   Creating cemetery lots; and
         3.   Resulting from court orders or the adjustment of a lot line by
the relocation of a common boundary.
Tree. Any of the following type of trees, as each is defined herein:
   Coniferous Tree. A woody plant which, at maturity, is at least 12 feet or
more in height, having foliage on the outermost portion of the branches year
round.
   Deciduous Tree. A woody plant which, at maturity, is at least 15 feet or
more in height, having a defined crown, and which sheds leaves annually.
Diameter of the tree is measured two feet from the ground.
   Significant Tree. A healthy deciduous tree having a diameter of eight inches
or greater when measured at diameter at breast height (DBH) or a coniferous
tree measuring four inches in diameter or greater, when measured at DBH.
   Significant Tree Stand. A grouping or cluster of coniferous and/or deciduous
trees with contiguous crown cover, occupying 500 or more square feet of
property, which are comprised of deciduous trees six inches or larger in
diameter or coniferous trees four inches in diameter.
   Specimen Tree. A particularly impressive or unusual example of a species due
to its size, shape, age, or other trait that epitomizes the character of the
species.
(Ord. 2025-03, passed 3-26-2025)
§ 1101.05 Conflicting Regulations.
Unless otherwise provided, whenever there is a difference between minimum
standards or dimensions specified in this chapter and those contained in other
official regulations, resolutions, or ordinances of the city, including, but
not limited to, such things as overlay zoning districts, the most restrictive
shall apply.
§ 1101.06 Registered Land Surveys.
All registered land surveys of property located in the city shall be approved
in the same manner as is required for the approval of subdivisions and plats
pursuant to this chapter, and such approval must be endorsed on the registered
land survey or attached thereto. Building permits shall be withheld for
buildings within registered land surveys which are not approved pursuant to
this chapter and M.S. Chapter 508 or 508A, as they may be amended from time to
time.
§ 1101.07 Issuance of Building Permits.
No permit will be issued for the construction of any building, structure, or
improvement to or on any land within a subdivision or which is the subject of a
conveyance unless the subdivision or conveyance complies with all applicable
requirements of this Code and state statutes. Additionally, building permits
are not to be issued for properties that are platted as outlots, except
essential services.
§ 1101.08 Premature Subdivisions.
   Subd. 1.   Any proposed subdivision requiring City Council approval pursuant
to this chapter and deemed premature for development shall not be approved by
the City Council. A subdivision shall be deemed premature if any one or more of
the following conditions exist.
         1.   Lack of Adequate Drainage. Factors to be considered in
determining a lack of adequate drainage shall include, but shall not be limited
to: average rainfall for the area; the relation of land to floodplains; the
nature of soils and subsoils and their ability to adequately support surface
water runoff and waste disposal systems; the slope of the land and its effect
on effluents; the presence of streams as related to effluent disposal. A
condition of inadequate drainage shall be deemed to exist if:
            a.   Surface or subsurface water retention/detention and runoff is
such that it constitutes a danger to the structural security of the proposed
development, or flood of the subdivision or downstream property;
            b.   The proposed subdivision will cause pollution of water sources
or damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream land; and
            c.   The proposed site grading and development will cause siltation
on downstream land.
         2.   Lack of Adequate Water Supply. A proposed subdivision shall be
deemed to lack adequate water supply if it does not have adequate sources of
water or treatment capacity to serve the proposed subdivision if developed to
its maximum permissible density without causing an unreasonable depreciation of
existing water supplies for surrounding areas.
         3.   Lack of Adequate Streets. A proposed subdivision shall be deemed
to lack adequate streets to serve the subdivision when:
            a.   Streets which serve the proposed subdivision are of such a
width, grade, stability, vertical and horizontal alignment, site distance, or
surface condition that the traffic volume generated by the proposed subdivision
would create a nuisance (including, but not limited to, maintenance concerns),
or a hazard to public safety and general welfare, or would seriously aggravate
an existing hazardous or nuisance condition, and when, with due regard to the
advice of the City Engineer, County Highway Engineer, and/or the State
Department of Transportation, the streets are inadequate for the intended use;
or
            b.   The traffic volume generated by the proposed subdivision would
create congestion or unsafe conditions on streets existing or proposed at the
time of the application.
         4.   Lack of Adequate Waste Disposal Systems. A proposed subdivision
shall be deemed to lack adequate waste disposal systems if:
            a.   Sanitary sewer is neither available nor proposed; or
            b.   Available or proposed sanitary sewer is inadequate to support
the subdivision if developed to its maximum permissible density after
reasonable sewer capacity is reserved for schools, planned public facilities,
and commercial and industrial development projected for the next five years.
         5.   Inconsistency with Comprehensive Plan. A proposed subdivision may
be deemed premature if it is inconsistent with the purposes, objectives, and
recommendations of the duly adopted Comprehensive Plan of the city, as may be
amended. Application for rezoning may be made at the time of subdivision
application, but the latter will not be deemed accepted or acceptable until and
unless any necessary rezoning is approved by the Council.
         6.   Lack of Public Improvements/Protective Services. A proposed
subdivision may be deemed premature if public improvements or facilities
reasonably necessitated by the subdivision, which must be provided at public
expense, and/or public protection services such as police, fire, and emergency
medical service cannot be provided within two years from the date the
application for preliminary plat approval is filed and complete.
         7.   Threat to Environmentally Essential Areas. A proposed subdivision
may be deemed premature if it is inconsistent with the policies and standards
of the city, the county, the state, or federal government relating to
environmentally sensitive areas and protections.
   Subd. 2.   The burden shall be upon the applicant to show that the proposed
subdivision is not premature.
§ 1101.09 Variance.
The City Council may approve variances from the minimum standards of this
chapter when, in its opinion, exceptional and undue hardship may result from
strict compliance, and the variance will not interfere with the purpose and
intent of this chapter.
   Subd. 1.   In approving any variance, the City Council shall prescribe any
conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable to the public interest. In
making its approval, the City Council shall take into account the nature of the
proposed use of land and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number
of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision, and the probable
effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. A
variance shall only be approved when the City Council finds that each and every
one of the following apply.
         1.   There are special circumstances or highly unique conditions
affecting the property such that the strict application of the provisions of
this chapter would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the land.
         2.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety, and welfare or injurious to other property in the
vicinity in which the development site is situated.
         3.   The granting of the variance will not increase the flood hazard
or flood damage potential.
         4.   The use proposed by the applicant would not result in a
floodstage increase violating the requirements of M.S. Chapter 103A, as it may
be amended from time to time, and any applicable requirements imposed by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
         5.   The variance is to correct inequities resulting from an extreme
physical hardship such as topography or inadequate access to direct sunlight
for solar energy systems.
         6.   Hardship relating to economic difficulties shall not be
considered for the purpose of granting a variance.
         7.   The hardship is not a result of an action or actions by the
owner, applicant, or any agent thereof.
   Subd. 2.   Procedure. The procedures for processing variance applications
shall comply with subsection
1002.12 of the city zoning ordinance, as may be amended.
§ 1101.10 Petition for Vacation.
Any petition or request that the city vacate all or any part of a street,
alley, easement, public way, or public grounds shall be accompanied, when
presented to the city, by a non-refundable processing fee in the amount set
forth in the adopted fee schedule. The petition or request shall be processed
according to M.S. § 412.851, as it may be amended from time to time.
SECTION 1102: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT AND LOT CONSOLIDATION
§ 1102 Lot Line Adjustment and Lot Consolidation.
   Subd. 1.   Lot line adjustments and lot consolidations are exempt from
platting by M.S. § 462.352, subd. 12, as it may be amended from time to time,
and shall not require a plat or replat and may be administratively approved,
subject to the following.
         1.   The lot line adjustment/consolidation shall be in compliance with
the Comprehensive Plan and the purpose and intent of this chapter.
         2.   The lot line adjustment/consolidation shall not create additional
lots or outlots.
         3.   The lot line adjustment/consolidation shall not cause any
structure on the property to be made non-conforming or to be in violation of
the zoning chapter or any other provisions of the City Code.
         4.   The lot line adjustment/consolidation shall result in lots that
meet the minimum dimensional requirements for the zoning district in which the
property is located and shall not further increase the non-conformity of any
lot dimension.
         5.   All parcels resulting from the lot line adjustment/consolidation
shall have frontage and access on an existing improved street.
         6.   Any such lot line/consolidation shall not require any public
improvements.
   Subd. 2.   Application Process.
         1.   Application for an administrative permit shall be filed by the
property owner or designated agent with the Zoning Administrator or designee on
forms to be provided by the city.
         2.   The application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable filing
fee and escrow, as set forth by City Council resolution for administrative
permit applications. Applications for amending permits shall be accompanied by
a non-refundable fee as set forth by City Council resolution for administrative
permits
         3.   The Zoning Administrator or designee shall review the application
and related materials and shall determine whether the proposal is in compliance
with all applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances, and applicable
performance standards set forth in this section. The Zoning Administrator or
designee shall notify the applicant, in writing, of an incomplete application
within 15 business days of the date of submittal. The request shall be
considered as being officially submitted when all of the information
requirements are deemed to be complete by the Zoning Administrator and the
applicable fees and escrows have been paid. The formal review will not commence
until such a time as the application is complete.
         4.   The Zoning Administrator or designee shall consider possible
adverse effects of the proposed events or activity. Judgment shall be based
upon (but not limited to) the following factors:
            a.   Compliance with and effect upon the Comprehensive Plan and
public facilities;
            b.   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the use,
event, or activity will promote and enhance the general public welfare and will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, or
comfort;
            c.   The use, event, or activity will not be injurious to the use
and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes
already permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within
the neighborhood;
            d.   The establishment of the use, event, or activity will not
impede the normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding
property for uses permitted in the district;
            e.   Adequate public facilities and services are available or can
be reasonably provided to accommodate the use, event, or activity which is
proposed;
            f.   The use, event, or activity shall, in all other respects,
conform to the applicable regulations in which it is located; and
            g.   The use, event, or activity and site conform to the
performance standards outlined in Section
1006 and all other applicable provisions of this chapter.
         5.   The Zoning Administrator or designee shall make a determination
on approval or denial of the administrative permit within 60 days from the date
of submittal of a complete application.
         6.   A written permit shall be issued to the applicant when a
determination of compliance has been made. Specific conditions to assure
compliance with applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances, and the
standards of this chapter shall be attached to the permit.
         7.   Determination of non-compliance with applicable codes,
ordinances, and the standards in this paragraph shall be communicated to the
applicant in writing and the application for the permit shall be considered
denied.
         8.   Unresolved disputes as to administrative application of the
requirements of this paragraph shall be subject to appeal as defined by Section
1105.
SECTION 1103: SIMPLE SUBDIVISION
§ 1103.01 Purpose.
The simple subdivision procedure is intended to allow for the expedited
procedure to subdivide land in those limited cases where strict adherence to
the standard subdivision process is not required. The simple subdivision
procedure is not intended to be a substitute for the standard subdivision
process set forth in this chapter. The intent is to create an expedited process
whereby no concept plan is required and subdivision shall be reviewed by the
City Council only.
   Subd. 1.   Qualification. The following may be considered as a simple
subdivision.
         1.   The property to be divided will result in four or fewer lots.
         2.   The property has not previously been the subject of division by
either administrative subdivision or simple subdivision.
         3.   The property to be divided is not part of a planned unit
development (PUD).
         4.   No variances are required to complete the subdivision as
proposed.
         5.   The subdivision will not cause any structure on the land to be in
violation of the zoning ordinance.
         6.   All standards, requirements, and improvements required of a
standard subdivision are required for simple subdivisions.
§ 1103.02 Information Required.
The simple subdivision shall contain the following information: all information
as required by the city’s simple subdivision handout.
§ 1103.03 Procedure.
The simple subdivision review process shall require submission of the same
information as are required for preliminary and final plats, except that the
preliminary plat and final plat may be reviewed together in one meeting by the
City Council, thereby shortening the review process.
   Subd. 1.   The applicant shall submit to the city a complete application and
all other information required according to the deadline and meeting schedule
established by the city. The application shall address the informational
requirements of subsection
1103.02.
   Subd. 2.   The Zoning Administrator, upon receipt of the application, shall
notify the applicant in writing within 15 city business days if the application
is found to be incomplete.
   Subd. 3.   The Zoning Administrator shall refer copies of the subdivision to
other staff, committees, consultants, or agencies as appropriate.
   Subd. 4.   Upon receipt of a complete application, the Zoning Administrator
shall prepare a report and refer the application to the City Council.
   Subd. 5.   The City Council shall act on the subdivision by motion. The
motion shall include findings of fact supporting the approval or denial, and
shall be entered in the proceedings of the City Council. The lack of a simple
majority Council vote to affirmatively approve the subdivision shall be a
denial of the requested application.
   Subd. 6.   Following approval of the subdivision, the developer shall submit
the following for review and approval by the city:
         1.   Completed development contract including all required financial
securities and timeframe for subdivision and final grading completion;
         2.   All fees, charges, and escrow related to the subdivision shall be
paid in full; and
         3.   Other items as required by the city.
   Subd. 7.   Sewer and water shall only be installed in the area included in
the approved subdivision. No construction/installation of sanitary sewer or
water facilities shall be allowed until approval of a subdivision, approval of
a development contract, and recording of the contract.
   Subd. 8.   Denial of a subdivision shall be subject to the findings in
subsection
1106.03, Subd. 6.
SECTION 1104: CONCEPT PLAN
§ 1104.01 Purpose.
The purpose of the concept plan is to obtain informal review comments prior to
filing a formal preliminary plat application. On the basis of the concept plan,
the city shall informally advise the developer as promptly as possible of the
extent to which the proposed subdivision generally conforms to the design
standards of this chapter. Concept plan review does not convey any legal
development rights to the applicant.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 6-14-2023)
§ 1104.02 Information Required.
The concept plan shall contain the following information: all information as
required by the city’s concept plan handout.
§ 1104.03 Procedure.
   Subd. 1.   Prior to the preparation of a preliminary plat, the applicant
shall meet with city staff to discuss a proposed development and investigate
the city requirements for pursuing a development application. A concept plan
may be submitted for review. Review of the concept plan further provides city
staff the opportunity to determine whether the proposed subdivision or parcel
is premature, based on criteria established in subsection
1101.08.
   Subd. 2.   The city strongly recommends the property owner/applicant hold a
neighborhood meeting for informal comment and feedback after submitting a
formal concept application.
   Subd. 3.   A development application form for concept plan along with the
associated information and fee established by the City Council shall be
submitted to the city.
   Subd. 4.   The Zoning Administrator shall submit copies of the concept plan
and associated information to other staff, committees, consultants, or agencies
as appropriate.
   Subd. 5.   The Zoning Administrator may refer the concept plan to the
Planning Commission and City Council for plats where any deviation or variance
is proposed for informal review and comment on the project’s acceptability in
relation to the city’s Comprehensive Plan and development regulations. The
applicant is required to attend the meetings with the Planning Commission and
the City Council. Concept plan review does not convey any legal development
rights to the applicant.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 6-14-2023)
SECTION 1105: PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 1105.01 Purpose.
The preliminary plat stage is the point in the process that all information
pertinent to the proposed development is furnished by the developer for review
by the city staff, city advisory committees, and the City Council, any other
applicable agencies, and the public. The information provides a basis for
approval or denial of the application. The information submitted in the
application shall address both existing conditions and changes that will occur
during and after development. The preliminary plat is a plan of how property
will be subdivided and developed.
§ 1105.02 Information Required.
The preliminary plat shall contain the following information: all information
as required by the city’s preliminary plat handout.
§ 1105.03 Procedure.
   Subd. 1.   Pre-Application Meeting. Prior to submitting a preliminary plat
application (following a concept plan review, if one occurs), the property
owner/applicant shall meet with the city staff to discuss the preliminary plat
application. Through this meeting, the Zoning Administrator may summarize the
city’s concept plan review comments and offer suggestions pertaining to
additional information or design changes that may assist in expediting the
preliminary plat review.
   Subd. 2.   The applicant shall submit to the city a complete application and
all other information required according to the deadline and meeting schedule
established by the city. The application shall address the informational
requirements of subsection 1105.02 and any issues identified through the
concept plan review procedure.
   Subd. 3.   The Zoning Administrator, upon receipt of the application, shall
notify the applicant in writing within 15 city business days if the application
is found to be incomplete.
   Subd. 4.   The Zoning Administrator shall refer copies of the preliminary
plat to other staff, committees, consultants, or agencies as appropriate.
   Subd. 5.   A preliminary plat abutting upon any existing or proposed trunk
highway, county road or highway, or county state-aid highway shall be subject
to review of the State Department of Transportation and/or County Highway
Department. Written notice and a copy of the proposed preliminary plat shall be
sent to the State Department of Transportation and/or County Highway Department
for review and comment. Final action on a preliminary plat shall not be taken
until the minimum 30-day review period has elapsed.
   Subd. 6.   Preliminary plats located within a Shoreland District or
Floodplain District shall be subject to review of the State Department of
Natural Resources. Written notice and a copy of the proposed preliminary plat
shall be sent to the State Department of Natural Resources at least ten days
prior to the public hearing.
   Subd. 7.   Upon receipt of a complete application, the Zoning Administrator
shall prepare a report and refer the application to the Planning Commission, as
well as the City Council.
   Subd. 8.   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the
proposed preliminary plat. Notice of the public hearing shall be published in
the official newspaper designated by the City Council at least ten days prior
to the hearing. The city shall mail written notification of the proposed
preliminary plat to property owners located within 500 feet of the subject
site. Timing of the mailed notice shall be the same as that for the published
notice. The failure to give mailed notice to individual property owners or
defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona
fide attempt to comply has been made.
   Subd. 9.   The Planning Commission shall take public testimony at the public
hearing and evaluate the requested preliminary plat against the premature
subdivision criteria of subsection
1101.08, the performance standards of this chapter, the performance standards
of the city ordinance, and other city requirements. The Planning Commission
shall make findings and offer a recommendation for either preliminary plat
approval or denial. The Planning Commission may offer a recommendation of
approval with conditions necessary to satisfy city regulations.
   Subd. 10.   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a staff report of the
findings and recommendations of the Planning Commission. The findings may
include specific conditions of approval or findings related to denial of the
plat.
   Subd. 11.   The City Council shall take action on the application within 120
days following delivery of a complete application in accordance with the
regulations of this chapter, unless an extension is agreed to in writing by the
applicant. The City Council may act on the preliminary plat if it does not
receive a recommendation from the Planning Commission within 60 days of receipt
of a complete application. If it approves the preliminary plat, the City
Council may impose conditions it considers necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
   Subd. 12.   The City Council shall take action on the application which
shall include findings of fact, and shall be entered in the proceedings of the
City Council and transmitted to the applicant in writing. The lack of a simple
majority Council vote to affirmatively approve a preliminary plat shall be a
denial of the requested application.
   Subd. 13.   Subject to the approval of the City Engineer, grading of the
site included in the preliminary plat may occur after approval of the
preliminary plat and the approval and recording of a development contract,
payment of fees, and posting of required securities with the city.
SECTION 1106: FINAL PLAT
§ 1106.01 Purpose.
Approval of a preliminary plat by the City Council is an acceptance of the
general layout, as submitted, and indicates that the developer may proceed
toward final plat approval in accordance with the City Council approval of the
preliminary plat, including conditions and the city growth management policy.
§ 1106.02 Information Required.
The final plat shall contain the following information: all information as
required by the city’s final plat handout.
§ 1106.03 Procedure.
   Subd. 1.   A complete application for final plat shall be submitted no later
than one year after the date of approval of the preliminary plat, or a time as
provided in the developers contract. Otherwise, the preliminary plat approval
shall be considered void, unless an extension is requested in writing, and for
good cause, is granted by the City Council.
   Subd. 2.   In considering time extensions for final plat submittals, the
City Council shall consider the reasons for the extension. If the developer is
unable to fulfill the schedule of the approved phasing plan, the City Council
may consider allocating to a different development project the utility service
area that was committed to the next phase of the plat. The subject plat would
then wait until the following year for final plat or utility service area
approval for its next phase.
   Subd. 3.   The final plat shall have incorporated all the conditions of City
Council approval of the preliminary plat. In all other respects, the final plat
shall substantially conform to the preliminary plat. It may constitute only
that portion of the approved preliminary plat which the developer proposes to
record and develop at that time, provided that such portion conforms with all
the requirements of this chapter and further provided that the remaining phases
of the development are platted as outlots.
   Subd. 4.   Approval of the engineering specifications required by this
chapter pertaining to water supply, drainage, domestic wastewater, potable
water, street lighting, gas and electric service, grading, roadway standards,
widths, and surfacing of streets, shall be completed by the City Engineer and
appropriate development contracts prepared prior to approval of the final plat
by the City Council.
   Subd. 5.   The final plat application shall be considered to be officially
filed when the Zoning Administrator has received and examined the application
and has determined that the application is complete.
         1.   The following requirements shall be met before consideration of
the final plat by the City Council.
            a.   The final plat shall substantially conform to the approved
preliminary plat and phasing plan.
            b.   City Attorney approval of the status of title/property
ownership related to the final plat.
            c.   Conditions attached to approval of the preliminary plat shall
be fulfilled or secured by the development contract, as appropriate.
         2.   The City Council shall act on the final plat by motion. The
motion shall include findings of fact supporting the approval or denial, and
shall be entered in the proceedings of the City Council. The lack of a simple
majority Council vote to affirmatively approve the final plat shall be a denial
of the requested application.
         3.   Following approval of the final plat, the developer shall submit
the following for review and approval by the city:
            a.   Completed development contract, including all required
financial securities and timeframe for final plat and final grading completion;
            b.   All fees, charges, and escrow related to the preliminary or
final plat shall be paid in full; and
            c.   Other items required by the city.
         4.   Sewer, water, and streets shall only be installed in the area
included in the approved final plat. No construction/installation of sanitary
sewer or water facilities or streets shall be allowed until approval of a final
plat, approval of a development contract for the sewer, water, and streets, and
recording of the contract.
   Subd. 6.   The City Council may deny the subdivision if it makes any one or
more of the following findings.
         1.   The proposed subdivision is in direct conflict with adopted
applicable general and specific Comprehensive Plans of the city or county.
         2.   The physical characteristics of this site, including, but not
limited to, topography, percolation rate, soil conditions, susceptibility to
erosion and siltation, susceptibility to flooding, water storage, drainage and
retention, are such that the site is not suitable for the type of development,
design, or use contemplated.
         3.   The site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of
development.
         4.   The design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are
likely to cause substantial environmental damage.
         5.   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements are
likely to cause serious public health problems.
         6.   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements of record or with easements established by judgment of
a court.
         7.   The proposed subdivision, its site, or its design adversely
affects the flood-carrying capacity of the floodway, increases flood stages and
velocities, or increases flood hazards within the floodway fringe or within
other areas of the city.
         8.   The proposed subdivision is inconsistent with the policies and
standards of the state defined Shoreland Districts or Wetland Overlay
Districts.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 6-14-2023)
SECTION 1107: DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 1107.01 Design Standards.
Public and private improvements shall comply with standards set forth in the
city’s private development standards, which are herein adopted by reference.
§ 1107.02 Land Requirements.
   Subd. 1.   Land shall be suited to the purpose for which it is to be
subdivided. No plan shall be approved if the site is not suitable for the
purposes proposed by reason of potential flooding, topography, adverse soil
conditions, rock formations, or wetlands.
   Subd. 2.   Proposed subdivisions shall be coordinated with surrounding
properties and/or neighborhoods so that the city as a whole may develop
efficiently and harmoniously.
§ 1107.03 Blocks.
   Subd. 1.   Length. The length, width, and acreage of blocks shall be
sufficient to accommodate the size of lots required for the area by the zoning
ordinance and to provide for convenient access, circulation, control, and
safety of street design. The maximum length of blocks shall be 1,500 feet and
the minimum length 400 feet. Blocks over 900 feet long may require pedestrian
ways at least 30 feet wide at their approximate center. The use of additional
pedestrian ways to schools, parks, and other destinations may be required.
   Subd. 2.   Arrangement. A block shall be so designed as to provide two tiers
of lots unless it adjoins a major collector, arterial street, railroad,
thoroughfare, watercourse, or park, or where topographic or other conditions
render the block arrangement unreasonable.
§ 1107.04 Lots.
   Subd. 1.   Area. The minimum lot area, width, and depth shall not be less
than that established by the city zoning ordinance in effect at the time of
adoption of the preliminary plat.
   Subd. 2.   Lots Abut. All lots shall abut (lot width required by the city
zoning ordinance) on a publicly dedicated street or a street that has received
legal status.
   Subd. 3.   Butt Lots. Butt lots shall be platted at least 20% five feet
wider than the interior lots in the block.
   Subd. 4.   Corner Lots. Corner lots shall be platted 20% wider and larger in
area than the minimum lot size specified in the zoning ordinance. The larger
lot size is intended to provide the appropriate building setback from both
streets and allow for a minimum 20-foot landscaped buffer yard where a lot
abuts a collector, arterial street, railroad, pipeline, or utility transmission
easement, as required in the city zoning ordinance.
   Subd. 5.   Side Lot Lines. Side lines of lots shall be approximately at
right angles to street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   Subd. 6.   Width. Every lot must have the minimum width measured at the
required front yard setback.
   Subd. 7.   Recreation Space. All residential lots shall be designed with a
minimum 20-foot flat area behind the home for use as recreation space, decks,
patios, and the like. Said space shall be unencumbered by utility easements,
wetlands, or steep slopes.
   Subd. 8.   Single- and Two-Family Lot Access. All new single- and two-family
urban lots shall be designed to receive access from a local street. Direct lot
access from an arterial or major collector street for these lots shall be
prohibited except where topographic or other conditions, as determined by the
City Engineer, justify access to an arterial or major collector street.
   Subd. 9.   Direct Access. New commercial, industrial, and multiple-family
lots fronting on an arterial or major collector street shall be designed to
minimize the number of direct access points through the following methods
listed in preferential order. If the highest preference is not possible, the
next preference shall be utilized until an access method is possible.
         1.   Access from a local street.
         2.   Frontage road serving multiple properties.
         3.   Frontage driveway or connected parking lot with cross easements
serving multiple properties.
         4.   Shared driveways.
         5.   One driveway access, no closer than 200 feet to another driveway
and that meets the city’s minimum spacing standards from a street intersection.
All driveways shall be reviewed for consistency with the access management
guidelines of the City Transportation Plan.
   Subd. 10.   Setback Lines. Setback or building lines shall be shown on all
lots shall not be less than the setback required by the city zoning ordinance.
   Subd. 11.   Wetlands. Wetlands may be contained within abutting lots but
shall be protected by a minimum 30-foot buffer extending outward from the
delineated wetland boundary. Lots with wetlands shall have sufficient
dimensions and area outside the ordinary high water mark to meet or exceed the
minimum lot area and width specified in the underlying zoning district in which
the lots are located.
   Subd. 12.   Grading for Drainage. Lots shall be graded so as to provide
drainage away from building locations and shall conform to the approved final
grading plan. Storm water drainage from an improved lot shall not be directed
at an adjoining property at a rate above a predevelopment condition except
where drainage is directed to a designed drainage easement.
   Subd. 13.   Natural Features. In the subdividing of any land, due regard
shall be shown for all natural features, such as tree growth, water courses,
historic places, or similar conditions which, if preserved, will add
attractiveness and stability to the proposed development.
   Subd. 14.   Frontage on Two Streets. Double frontage, or lots with frontage
on two parallel streets, shall not be permitted except where lots back on major
collector or arterial streets, city or state highways, or where topographic or
other conditions render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. Additional lot
depth and a minimum 20-foot wide landscaped buffer yard shall be provided for
all double frontage lots for accommodate landscaping and/or berms.
   Subd. 15.   Irregular Shaped Lots. On single-family residential lots
determined to be irregular in shape (e.g., triangular), the developer shall
demonstrate to the city an ability to properly place principal buildings and
accessory structures upon the site which are compatible in size and character
to the surrounding area.
   Subd. 16.   Building Expansion. All single-family residential lots shall be
designed in consideration of potentials for buildings accommodating garages,
porches and decks, and the like without need for setback variance. Said
buildings and structures are to be compatible in size and character with the
surrounding area.
   Subd. 17.   Lot Remnants/Outlots. All remnants of lots below minimum lot
size left over after subdividing a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots
rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels. Outlots may be platted
within a subdivision to delineate future development phases, commonly owned
open spaces, or land to be dedicated to the public for park, drainage and
utility, or other public purpose. The outlot shall be sized in a manner to
accommodate its intended use. An outlot shall be platted into a lot and block
prior to issuance of a building permit. No building permits shall be issued for
an outlot except for city structures allowed as a recreational or utility
component in an open space area.
§ 1107.05 Streets and Alleys.
The arrangement, character, extension, width, grade, and location of all
streets shall conform to the City Engineering Design Standards and
Comprehensive Plan. Streets shall be considered in their relation to existing
and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographical
conditions, to runoff of storm water, to public convenience and safety, and in
their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by the
streets.
   Subd. 1.   Streets.
         1.   Streets, Continuous. Except for cul-de-sacs, streets shall
connect with streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions,
or provide for future connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts, or shall be
a reasonable projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts. The
arrangement of thoroughfares and collector streets shall be considered in their
relation to the reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions,
to runoff of storm water, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the area to be served.
         2.   Adjoining Areas. The arrangement of streets in a new subdivision
shall make provisions for the proper projection of streets into adjoining areas
by carrying the new streets to the boundaries of the new subdivision at
appropriate locations approved by the City Engineer.
         3.   Temporary Cul-de-Sac. In those instances where a street is
terminated pending future extension in conjunction with future subdivision and
more than 200 feet between the dead-end and the nearest intersection, a
temporary turn-around facility shall be provided at the closed end, in
conformance with cul-de-sac requirements. The temporary cul-de-sacs shall be
completed with curb to the end and paved to cul-de-sac radius width behind the
curb. This temporary cul-de-sac must be placed inside a temporary roadway
easement if it is located outside street right-of-way. At such time as such a
street is extended, the acreage covered by the turn-around outside the
boundaries of the extended street shall revert in ownership to the property
owner fronting on the temporary turn-around. Financial security will be
required for removal or restoration as determined by the City Engineer. Said
temporary cul-de-sacs shall be posted with signage indicating that the road is
a proposed through road to alert the public that the road is planned to
continue into the next development upon future subdivision.
         4.   Provisions for Re-Subdivision of Large Lots and Parcels. When a
tract is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or parcels, such lots
or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical location and openings
of future streets and appropriate re-subdivision, with provision for adequate
utility connections for such re-subdivision.
         5.   Subdivisions Abutting Major Rights-of-Way. Wherever the proposed
subdivision contains or is adjacent to the right-of-way of a U.S. or state
highway, county road, or local collector street, provision may be made for a
service street approximately parallel and adjacent to the boundary of such
right-of-way; provided that due consideration is given to proper circulation
design, setbacks from an intersection on the major rights-of-way, or for a
street at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of land between such
street and right-of-way. Such distance shall be determined with due
consideration of the minimum distance required for approach connections to
future grade separations, or for lot depths.
         6.   Widths. Right-of-way withds and pavement widths (face-to-face) of
curb shall be as shown in the Comprehensive Plan, and where not shown in the
Plan, shall not be less than as follows:
 
Classification          Right of Way Pavement Width
Cul-de-sac radius       120 feet     45 feet
Cul-de-sac streets      60 feet      30 feet
Major collector/parkway 100 feet     Determined by City Engineer
Minor collector         80 feet      Determined by City Engineer
Residential street      60 feet      30 feet
Service roads           50 feet      28 feet
 
         7.   Street Intersections. Streets shall intersect at right angles,
and in no case shall the angle formed by the intersection of two streets be
less than 60 degrees. Intersections having more than four corners shall be
prohibited. Adequate land for future intersections and interchange construction
needs shall be dedicated.
         8.   Deflections. When connecting street lines deflect from each
other, or when a single street deflects at one point, by more than ten degrees,
they shall be connected by a curve with a radius adequate to ensure a sight
distance of not less than 500 feet for arterials, 300 feet for collectors, and
200 feet for all other streets. The City Council may allow greater or lesser
sight distances and of such radii as the City Engineer shall determine for
special cases.
         9.   Street Intersection Offsets. Street intersection jogs shall have
a centerline offset of 150 feet or more when applied to minor streets and
service streets. In all other cases, they shall be avoided.
         10.   Tangents. A tangent of at least 100 feet shall be introduced
between points of reverse curves of arterial and collector streets.
         11.   Cul-de-Sacs. The maximum length of a street terminating in a
cul-de-sac shall be 500 feet measured from the centerline of the street of
origin to the end of the right-of-way.
         12.   Centerline Gradients. Must comply with the Engineering Design
Standards.
         13.   Vertical Curves. Must comply with the Engineering Design
Standards.
         14.   Marginal Access Streets. Marginal access streets shall be so
aligned that their use by through traffic shall be discouraged.
         15.   Service Streets. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
existing or planned major thoroughfare or a railroad right-of-way, the City
Council may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of the
right-of-way for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford
separation of through and local traffic. The service streets shall be located
at a distance from the major thoroughfare or railroad right-of-way suitable for
the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes in
residential districts, or for commercial or industrial purposes in appropriate
districts. The distances shall also be determined with due regard for the
requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
         16.   Half Streets. Half streets shall be prohibited, except where
essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with
the other requirements of this chapter, and except where the City Council finds
it shall be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when
adjoining property is subdivided. Wherever there is a half street adjacent to a
tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within
the tract prior to the granting of access and an escrow shall be established
for future road construction.
         17.   Private Streets. Private streets shall not be approved, and no
public improvements shall be approved for any existing private streets.
         18.   Reserve Strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets
shall be prohibited, except under conditions approved by the City Council.
         19.   Access Management Requirements. Must comply with the Engineering
Design Standards.
         20.   Width of Existing Street. Where a subdivision abuts or contains
an existing street of inadequate width, sufficient additional width shall be
provided within the subdivision to meet the standards of this chapter.
         21.   Additional Width. Additional right-of-way and roadway widths may
be required by the Council to promote public safety and convenience when
special conditions require it.
         22.   Dedication. All proposed streets shown on the plat shall be in
conformity to city, county, and state plans and standards and be offered for
dedication as public streets unless otherwise determined by the City Council.
         23.   Hardship to Owners of Adjoining Property Avoided. The street
arrangements shall not be such as to cause hardship, as determined by the City
Council, to owners of adjoining property.
         24.   Grading. The full width of the right-of-way of all streets and
alleys dedicated in the plat shall be graded to the lines and cross sections as
shown on the grading plan submitted to and approved by the City Engineer.
Exceptions to the width of grading may be granted where topography or tree
cover warrant.
         25.   Soil Investigation. To determine subgrade soils classification
and bearing capacity of the soils in the proposed development, a soil
investigation report shall be prepared under the supervision of a soils
engineer associated with a qualified soils testing service and be provided to
the City Engineer.
         26.   Base and Surfacing. All streets shall be improved with a
concrete or bituminous surface. Streets to be paved shall be surfaced in
accordance with Engineering Design Standards. No building permit shall be
issued for any lot or parcel in a subdivision prior to the installation of base
course. Wear course bituminous shall be installed the following construction
season or two years later, if city so designates. Exceptions to this provision
may be granted by the City Council at its discretion as part of a development
contract.
         27.   Concrete Curb and Gutter. All curb shall be constructed in
accordance with Engineering Design Standards. Radius of curvature of the street
shall accommodate as minimum 30 mph traffic unless approved by the City
Engineer. In new residential developments where access location to lots are not
known, a surmountable concrete curb in accordance with City standard design
templates may be used subject to the approval of the City Council if the radius
of curvature of the street is 200 feet or larger and except at intersections
and catch basin inlets. Radius curvature of streets shall accommodate minimum
30 mph traffic unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
         28.   Boulevards. All boulevards shall have four inches of topsoil
(black dirt) placed on them and then shall be sodded and seeded.
         29.   Sidewalks. Concrete sidewalks are required on one side of
residential streets and may be required on both sides of the streets and on
pedestrian ways as directed by the City Council. All sidewalks shall meet the
specifications and width standards in the Engineering Design Standards.
Sidewalks are to be installed before the bituminous wear course.
         30.   Driveways. Concrete or asphalt driveways shall be constructed
from the curb to the property line. All driveway aprons between the back of
curb and the sidewalk shall be concrete. In cases where driveways are
constructed after curbing and sidewalks are in place, the sidewalk for the
width of the driveway shall be reconstructed to driveway specifications. Where
driveways shall be permitted to access onto thoroughfare or collector streets,
provisions shall be made for an on-site turn around area which would provide
access to the thoroughfare or collector street in a forward direction. All
driveway aprons between back of curb and sidewalk shall be concrete.
         31.   Lighting. Streetlights conforming to Engineering Design
Standards shall be installed at the locations approved by the City Engineer.
Easements may be required along property lines to rights-of-way so as to
provide for a street light interval not to exceed 500 feet.
         32.   Street Signs. The developer shall submit a signage plan to the
city for approval and the developer shall install signage in accordance with
the approved plan. The design of said signs shall be in accordance with
Engineering Design Standards. Letters shall be at least six inches high, green
on a white background.
         33.   Street Trees. In all new subdivisions, street and yard trees
shall be planted in accordance with subsection
1006.06 of the zoning ordinance. No trees shall be planted within 30 feet of
the intersection of curb lines on corner lots. Street trees shall be planted
not less than 40 feet apart and shall be placed three to five feet inside the
property line and not in the boulevard. This provision shall not apply to tree
plantings on city parkways where the City Council may permit the planting of
trees in landscaped medians or boulevard areas, subject to approval of the City
Engineer.
         34.   Streets in Flood Hazard Area. No street shall be approved if its
final surface is at a lower elevation than one foot below the regulatory flood
protection elevation. The City Council may require profiles and elevations of
finished streets for areas subject to flooding. Fill may be used for streets,
provided such fill does not unduly increase flood heights and provided any such
fill would not result in a stage increase violating the requirements of M.S.
Chapter 103A, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 1107.06 Easements.
   Subd. 1.   Lot Lines. Drainage and utility easements at least ten feet wide
shall be provided on all lot lines (see diagram below). These easements may be
centered on common rear and side lot lines. At a minimum, these easements shall
be ten feet wide along all lot lines on streets and along all boundaries with
land not being developed. The easements shall provide continuity of alignment
from block to block. At deflection points, an easement for a pole line anchor
shall be provided where necessary. The following exceptions to these
requirements shall be permitted: the easement width requirements may be reduced
or waived for subdivisions in the “TOD” Transit Oriented Development District
and the “DD” Downtown Design Overlay District, subject to the approval of both
the Zoning Administrator and the City Engineer.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7630f31a49d9a5c72bf6cd42e5fcccf773532671/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.jpg]
   Subd. 2.   Drainage Channels. Easements shall be provided along each side of
the centerline of any waterway or drainage channel. The easements shall be of a
sufficient width to provide for proper maintenance and protection of the
waterway or channel, storm water runoff, and the installation and maintenance
of drainage systems. Easement width to be determined by the City Engineer.
   Subd. 3.   Utilities. Easements shall be provided for all sanitary sewer,
water main, and storm water facilities. The easements shall be of a sufficient
width to provide for access, proper maintenance, and protection of the
facilities.
§ 1107.07 Storm Water Management.
The developer shall submit a storm water management plan to the city and said
plan shall comply with all federal, state, and local requirements. Storm water
drainage facilities shall be designed to convey the flow of surface waters
without damage to persons or property. The system shall ensure drainage at all
points along streets, and provide positive drainage away from building and on-
site waste disposal to accommodate frequent floods. Drainage plans shall be
consistent with local and regional drainage plans. The facilities shall be
designed to protect against surface erosion and siltation of surface water and
to prevent the discharge of excess runoff onto adjacent properties. The natural
drainage shall be used as far as is feasible for the storage and flow of
runoff. Developer must comply with all federal, state, and local requirements
including but not limited to the State Pollution Control Agency’s NPDES
construction permit requirements, State Storm Water Manual, and Engineering
Design Standards.
§ 1107.08 Erosion and Sediment Control.
Prior to commencing any land disturbing activity in a subdivision, the
developer shall submit an erosion control plan for approval by the City
Engineer. All grading and construction activity that results in disturbance of
the ground shall comply with State Pollution Control Agency’s general storm
water permit for construction activity, the State Storm Water Manual, the
Engineering Design Standards, and all other applicable city ordinances.
§ 1107.09 Public Utilities.
   Subd. 1.   Watermain. Watermain size shall be a minimum eight inch diameter.
Watermain shall meet all the requirements of the city engineering design
standards.
         1.   Mains shall be valved at intervals not to exceed 800 feet. Valve
type shall be as defined in the city standard specifications.
         2.   “Dead end” mains shall be looped if exceeding the allowed length
of a cul-de-sac. The distribution system may require installing a larger main
to benefit the entire water service in the city. The City Engineer shall
determine location and size of mains larger than eight inches in residential
areas. In commercial/industrial areas, watermain up to 12 inches may be
required to meet normal distribution required in the development. The cost of
normal distribution size and appurtenances shall be the responsibility of the
developer. Size of pipe over and above the normal shall be installed and
financed in accordance with city policy.
   Subd. 2.   Water Supply. An individual well may be used for irrigation
purposes only.
   Subd. 3.   Fire Hydrants. Installation shall be pursuant to plans approved
by the City Engineer and local firefighting authority and shall be located in
accordance with State Fire Code standards. Hydrants shall be placed at the end
of all “dead ends,” cul-de-sacs and at intersections. Hydrant type and
installation shall be in accordance with the city standard specifications.
   Subd. 4.   Sanitary Sewer. Sanitary Sewer shall be a minimum of eight inch
pipe and shall be of a material approved for use in the city by the City
Engineer. Sanitary sewer grades and installation shall meet the Engineering
Design Standards. Main size shall be determined by the sewage flow and grade in
accordance with the City Comprehensive Development Study.
         1.   Size of pipe shall be determined by lateral service and/or trunk
service. Trunk service shall be the responsibility of the property served and
City Council shall establish cost distribution policy. Lateral service shall be
the responsibility of the property serviced and cost shall be borne by the
serviced property
         2.   Sanitary sewer service shall be a minimum of four inches and
shall be installed in accordance with the city’s Engineering Design Standards.
         3.   House Services. Each house service shall be run from the main to
the property line, where a cap or plug shall be placed until the service is
extended to the structure. All services shall be installed in accordance with
the city’s Engineering Design Standards.
         4.   Electronic final design plans shall be submitted to the city so
that record drawings can be completed by the City Engineer.
   Subd. 5.   Sanitation. Water and sewer lines shall be installed and
connected to the public system to serve all lots within the proposed
subdivision under the provisions of applicable statutes and ordinances. The
City Council shall require the installation of water and sewer mains, at the
applicant’s expense or under the provisions of applicable statutes and
ordinances, unless said applicant can prove to the City Council that extension
of the existing water or sewer system is not feasible in the development of the
subdivision and that adequate water or sewer facilities will be otherwise
provided, in which case, the City Council may permit the installation of
individual wells and septic systems subject to the standards in subsection
1006.07 of the zoning ordinance.
   Subd. 6.   Underground Utilities. Telephone, electric, cable, gas service
lines, and/or other public utilities are to be placed underground in accordance
with city standards.
         1.   Developers shall apply for city permits to install underground
utilities in public rights-of-way.
         2.   The city shall approve all utilities prior to installation.
         3.   Public utilities shall be installed in a joint trench in
accordance with city standards.
         4.   Conduit shall be installed for all road crossings.
         5.   Public utility installation shall not occur until one week after
all curb has been backfilled.
§ 1107.10 Flood Warning Signs in FEMA Designated Flood Areas.
The limits of the areas which have been or would be inundated by the 100-year
flood shall be delineated as reasonably practical at 300-foot intervals by
means of firmly placed markers of sufficient size to be easily read from a
distance of 20 feet. The markers shall record the maximum known depth of
flooding or height to the flood protection level, whichever is greater. All
flood warning signs in floodprone areas shall be in accordance with the above
requirements or any additional requirements as provided by the use of the 100-
year flood profile and other supporting technical date in the Flood Insurance
Study and the flood insurance rate map. The subdivision markers shall meet the
following specifications:
   Subd. 1.   The markers shall be on substantial permanent metal posts.
   Subd. 2.   The marker(s) shall have notification painted white and shall be
stenciled or otherwise lettered with the inscription “100-year flood
elevation.” This lettering is to be of a permanent nature.
   Subd. 3.   The marker shall be firmly placed in the ground and be at least
two feet above the ground.
   Subd. 4.   The cost of preparing and installing such markers shall be borne
by the applicant, and the markers shall be installed prior to the sale of lots
and construction of any buildings or structures.
§ 1107.11 Tree Protection and Replacement.
   Subd. 1.   Affected Areas. The following process for protecting significant
trees shall be required for all new subdivisions.
   Subd. 2.   Tree Protection. Subdividers are required to protect at minimum
40% of the existing significant trees on the property. If the tree removal
exceeds the allowed 60%, the list for removal shall be sorted by caliper inch,
with the smallest of the trees counting towards the allowed removal. Required
replacement shall be calculated using the largest of the trees proposed for
removal. All specimen trees are encouraged to be preserved. If two or more
trees are preserved on any lot in the front yard, the landscape plan
requirements of two and one-half inch caliper trees is waived for that specific
lot.
   Subd. 3.   Inventory Required. All applicants are required to submit a tree
inventory and plan for review and approval as part of the development process.
All tree inventories shall be prepared by a licensed land surveyor and a
forester or a landscape architect and include the following:
         1.   The location of all existing significant trees on the property.
Each tree shall be identified by a unique identification number;
         2.   The percentage of significant trees proposed to be protected as
part of the development. Significant trees intended for removal shall be
clearly distinguishable from those intended for preservation. Proposed lot
lines, building pads, driveways, streets, easements, and any areas in which
tree disruption is anticipated shall be shown;
         3.   All required plantings, including:
            a.   All trees for landscaping, screening, or other requirements.
Identify areas where existing trees are being proposed to meet requirements;
and
            b.   The location and size of replacement trees (if the development
intends to remove greater than 60% of the existing trees).
         4.   The final tree design of all lots showing the significant trees
intended for preservation and any required plantings;
         5.   A matrix listing the unique identification number for the
significant tree, the species or common name, the proposed lot and block on
which the tree resides, the size in caliper inches, and an indicator as to
whether the tree is intended for removal or preservation. The matrix shall be
sorted by lot and block number and conclude with a tabulation of the following:
            a.   Total number of significant trees on-site;
            b.   Total number of significant trees proposed for removal;
            c.   Total number of significant trees proposed for preservation;
            d.   Calculation of the percentage proposed for removal; and
            e.   If the percentage for removal exceeds 60%, the number of trees
which exceed the allowed removal.
         6.   If the percentage of removal is greater than 60%, a second matrix
shall be provided which sorts the significant trees by caliper inch and
identifies all trees for which replacement is required. This matrix shall
conclude with a tabulation of the following:
            a.   Total number of caliper inches for which replacement is
required; and
            b.   Calculation of the required caliper inches to be replaced and
shown as required plantings within the tree preservation plan.
         7.   Required replacements shall be calculated using the largest of
trees proposed for removal.
   Subd. 4.   Inventory Updates. Inventories may need to be updated throughout
the construction of developments due to changes in the grading plans and other
construction related events. Additionally, a finalized inventory shall be
submitted by the developer upon completion of a development to verify all
requirements have been met. Inventory updates shall be subject to the following
guidelines.
         1.   Updated inventories shall require that all significant trees on
the site are examined by a forestry specialist, and that all impacted trees are
identified. Impacted trees shall be identified as removed on the updated
inventory.
         2.   Updated inventories shall be subject to the same guidelines and
submitted in the same format as the original inventory called for by this
section.
         3.   For lots that have obtained a certificate of occupancy, the
updated inventory shall reflect the trees on the lots as identified on a final
tree survey or other approved method.
         4.   If an updated inventory indicates actual removal exceeded the
planned removal as approved with the development, the developer shall be
required to provide additional replacement trees as outlined by this section.
         5.   If the revised inventory indicates fewer trees have been removed
than planned, the developer shall receive a credit for the additional caliper
inches preserved. Said credit may only be used towards planned future removal
of trees. Under no circumstances shall this credit be used to eliminate
required plantings as part of the development, nor can said credits be used to
avoid existing obligations to ongoing or completed construction.
   Subd. 5.   Protection During Development. The developer is responsible for
all trees on a site until a certificate of occupancy is granted, and for trees
on the remainder of the property until all improvements are accepted. A tree
protection plan must be provided, as described below:
         1.   Installation of snow fencing or polyethylene laminar safety
netting at the drip line or critical root zones of groups of trees to be saved;
         2.   Installation of signage at all tree protection areas that
instruct works to stay out;
         3.   Installation of erosion control measures;
         4.   Tree protection measures shall be kept in place and in good
condition until all grading and construction activity has stopped; and
         5.   Prevention of soil chemistry change due to concrete wash out and
leakage or spillage of toxic materials such as fuels or paints.
   Subd. 6.   Protection Timeline. Trees identified on the tree preservation
plan shall be protected by the developer throughout the development process.
Upon accepting the preservation/reforestation work completed by the developer,
the city’s enforcement of the tree preservation plan shall cease.
   Subd. 7.   Replacement Rate Guidelines. Planned and unplanned tree removal
shall be subject to the following guidelines:
         1.   Trees planned for removal beyond the allowed 60% shall be subject
to a required replacement as defined by this section. For every tree planned to
be lost beyond the allowed 60%, a replacement tree shall be required at a rate
of one inch for every one inch of tree loss.
         2.   In the event a tree tagged for preservation is identified for
removal in conjunction with a permitted activity, the required replacement
shall be one caliper inch for every one caliper inch of tree loss.
         3.   In the event a tree identified for preservation is removed
without authorization, the required replacement shall be two caliper inches for
every one caliper inch of tree loss.
   Subd. 8.   Replacement Type Guidelines. Replacement trees shall be subject
to the following guidelines.
         1.   Deciduous trees: no less than two and one-half caliper inches;
         2.   Coniferous trees: no less than six feet high;
         3.   Replacement trees shall be species similar to the trees which
were destroyed or damages or shall be the species identified in zoning
ordinance subsection 1006.06;
         4.   Unacceptable trees: the following trees are unacceptable because
of structural instability, susceptibility to disease, or because they are
invasive species:
            a.   Silver maple;
            b.   Siberian elm;
            c.   Cottonwood;
            d.   Russian olive;
            e.   Mulberrry;
            f.   Ginkgo;
            g.   Boxelder;
            h.   Black locust; and
            i.   Ash.
         5.   Replacement trees shall not be placed on easements or street
rights-of-way. Prior to planting replacement trees, the applicant shall submit
for city review and approval the locations of the replacement trees.
   Subd. 9.   Prohibited Actions.
         1.   No soil disturbance shall occur within the subdivision until the
tree protection, preservation, replacement, and/or reforestation plan(s) are
approved, financial securities have been submitted, and development agreement
approved, and tree protection measures are in place on-site.
         2.   Construction staging areas and areas for the storage of equipment
and stockpiling of materials shall not be within tree protection areas.
         3.   Fill shall not be placed against tree trunks, under the drip
line, or in critical root zones of trees to be saved.
         4.   Pruning of oak trees shall not take place from April 1 through
July 15. If wounding of oak trees occurs, a non-toxic tree wound dressing must
be applied immediately. Excavators shall have a non-toxic tree wound dressing
with them on the development site.
   Subd. 10.   Security for Tree Preservation, Replacement, and Reforestation.
To ensure tree preservation efforts are successful, the following shall be
required.
         1.   Developers subject to this section shall be required to provide
the city with a letter of credit, cash, or escrow, in favor of the city, in an
amount of 125% of the tree replacement/planting estimate.
         2.   All replacement, reforestation, and other required plantings
shall be planted during an ideal planting season for a particular species,
unless otherwise authorized by the city. The developer shall submit a useable
inventory of trees planted during an applicable planting season.
         3.   All trees planted during a specified planting season shall be
warranted through two complete growing seasons. The city shall inspect the
trees listed in the developer’s inventory from the previous year to ensure the
health of the tree.
         4.   As trees are declared healthy by the city upon inspection, the
developer may request reductions to the security amount provided adequate funds
remain equal to 125% of the cost to complete remaining work.
SECTION 1108: PARK DEDICATION
§ 1108 Park Dedication.
   Subd. 1.   As a prerequisite to subdivision approval, a subdivider shall
dedicate land for parks, playgrounds, public open spaces or trails, and/or
shall make a cash contribution to the city’s park development fund roughly
related to the anticipated effect of the subdivision on the park and trail
system.
   Subd. 2.   The applicant shall confer with city staff and the Park Committee
to secure a recommendation as to the location of any property that should be
dedicated to the public, such as parks, playgrounds or other public property.
The preliminary plat or simple subdivision shall show the location and
dimensions of all areas to be dedicated in this manner. Such contribution
requirement recommendation(s) will be sent to the City Council for their
approval.
   Subd. 3.   When a subdivision is proposed, the developer shall make a
dedication of land for public park and trail use, as provided for below, or
shall pay a fee in lieu of such land dedication as established by City Council
ordinance. Said amount is the city’s best estimate of the effect of the
subdivision on the city’s park system.
         1.   In all new residential subdivisions, 10% of the area subdivided
shall be dedicated for public recreation space.
         2.   In all new commercial and industrial subdivisions, 4% of the area
subdivided shall be dedicated for public recreation space.
         3.   The 10% land area shall be calculated on the net area, which is
the gross area of the subdivided property minus the area of wetlands, lakes,
and rivers below the ordinary high water mark.
         4.   The land dedicated for public recreation shall be in addition to
property dedicated for streets, alleys, easements, or other public ways.
         5.   No areas may be dedicated for public use until such areas have
been approved by the City Council.
   Subd. 4.   The city may elect, at its sole discretion, to receive a cash
dedication or a combination of cash, land, and development of the land for park
and/or trail use. Cash dedications shall be calculated based upon the
following:
         1.   At the time of subdivision, a calculation will be conducted to
determine the average fair market value of the land to be subdivided, based on
annual tax valuation or other relevant data. The average fair market value of
the land will be multiplied by the appropriate dedication percentage. The
result of this calculation is equal to the total cash value of the park
dedication for the project. The formula is outlined as follows:
   Average Fair Market Value of Land to be Subdivided x Percent of Land to be
Dedicated = Total Cash
   Value of Park Dedication for the Subdivision
         2.   The value of the land dedication, if any, is determined based
upon the following formula:
   Total Land Dedication Acres x Cash Value of Park Dedication for the
Subdivision = Dedicated Land    
   Value
         3.   To determine the combined land cash dedication requirement, the
following formula should be used:
   Total Cash Value of Park Dedication for the Subdivision - Dedicated Land
Value = Cash Dedication    
   Requirement
   Subd. 5.   Park cash contributions are to be calculated and established
based on land value at time of final plat. Cash dedications shall be included
in the development agreement and paid prior to the city’s signature and release
of the final plat. For subdivisions that do not require a development
agreement, the cash dedication shall be paid before the city releases the
signed approval of the subdivision for recording.
   Subd. 6.   Cash contributions for parks and trails shall be deposited in the
city’s Park Development Fund and shall only be used for park acquisition or
development, and trail acquisition or development as determined by the city.
   Subd. 7.   Land shall be reasonably suitable for its intended use and shall
be at a location convenient to the people to be served. Factors used in
evaluating the adequacy of proposed park and recreation areas shall include
size, shape, topography, geology, hydrology, tree cover, access and location,
and future park needs pursuant to the Comprehensive Plan. Wetlands, ponding
areas, and drainage ways shall not be eligible for park dedication credit. Park
land to be dedicated shall be above the ordinary high water level. Grades
exceeding 12% or areas unsuitable for park development will not be considered
for dedication unless specifically accepted by the City Council for an intended
public purpose. Land with trash, junk, pollutants, and/or unwanted structures
is not acceptable.
   Subd. 8.   When a proposed park, playground, recreation area, school site,
or other public ground has been indicated in the city’s Comprehensive Plan and
is located in whole or in part within a proposed plat, it shall be dedicated to
the appropriate governmental unit. If the applicant elects not to dedicate an
area in excess of the land required hereunder for such proposed public site,
the city may consider acquiring the excess land through purchase or other
means.
   Subd. 9.   If a new subdivision is designed to be platted in several
additions, all public recreation space, school sites, or other public use lands
in the total subdivision area, except streets, alleys, or easements other than
those leading directly to the sites, shall be dedicated at the time of platting
of the first addition unless otherwise approved by the City Council. Areas to
be dedicated shall be brought to a suitable condition by the developer prior to
acceptance by the city.
   Subd. 10.   Where private open space for park and recreation purposes is
provided in a proposed subdivision, such areas may be used for credit, at the
discretion of the City Council, against the land or cash dedication requirement
for park and recreation purposes, provided the City Council finds it is in the
public interest to do so.
   Subd. 11.   Property being replatted with the same number of lots and same
number of dwelling units shall be exempt from all park land dedication
requirements. If the number of lots or the number of dwelling units or
principal structures is increased, or if land outside of the previously
recorded plat is added, then the park land dedication and/or park cash
contributions shall be based on the additional units/lots and on the additional
land being added to the plat.
   Subd. 12.   If the applicant or developer does not believe that the
estimates contained in this section fairly and accurately represent the effect
of the subdivision has on the park or trail system of the city, the applicant
or developer may request that the city prepare an in-depth study of the effect
of the subdivision on the park and trail system and an estimate of that effect
in money and/or land. All costs of such study shall be paid by the developer or
applicant. If the developer requests the preparation of such a study, no
application for the development shall be deemed complete until the study has
been completed and a determination is made as to the appropriate amount of land
or money necessary to offset the effects of the subdivision.
SECTION 1109: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 1109.01 Required Improvements.
   Subd. 1.   All of the required improvements to be installed under the
provisions of this chapter shall be done in accordance with any and all city
standards, specifications, and requirements, and shall be approved by and be
subject to the inspection of the City Engineer. All of the city’s expenses
incurred as the result of the required improvements shall be paid by the
applicant either directly, indirectly, or by reimbursement to the city.
Required improvements are as follows.
         1.   Monuments.
            a.   Official monuments, as designated and adopted by the county
surveyor’s office or approved by the County District Court for use as judicial
monuments, shall be set at corners or angle points on the outside boundary of
the final plat or in accordance with a plan as approved by the City Engineer.
            b.   Monuments shall also be placed at each point at which a lot
line intersects a wetland boundary with a maximum spacing of 200 feet. These
monuments shall be permanent and shall clearly state the purpose of the
monument upon its face.
            c.   Pipes or steel rods shall be placed at each lot corner.
            d.   All United States, state, county, or other official
benchmarks, monuments or triangular stations in or adjacent to the property
shall be preserved in precise position and shall be recorded on the plat.
         2.   Street Improvements.
            a.   The right-of-way, including the subgrade, shall be graded
pursuant to plans approved by the city.
            b.   Pursuant to the standards and specifications for street
construction as approved by the City Council, the following shall be
accomplished.
               i.   All streets shall be improved.
               ii.   All streets to be surfaced shall be of an overall width in
accordance with such standards and specifications.
               iii.   Curb and gutter shall be installed.
            c.   The portion of the right-of-way outside the area surfaced
shall be sodded or riprapped by the developer if deemed necessary by the city.
            d.   Street signs and traffic control devices of standard design
and street lighting fixtures, all as approved by the City Council, shall be
installed at each intersection or such other location as the Council requires.
         3.   Sanitary Sewers and Water Facilities. Sanitary sewers and water
facilities shall be installed by the city in accordance with the standards and
specifications as provided for in the Engineering Design Standards, as may be
amended, and shall be subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
         4.   Trees and Boulevard Sodding. Trees and boulevard sodding shall be
planted in conformance with City Engineering Design Standards and
specifications.
         5.   Utility Lines. Telephone, electric, gas service, and/or other
public utility lines are to be placed underground in accordance with the
provisions of all applicable city ordinances.
         6.   Erosion and Sediment Control.
            a.   Erosion and siltation control measures shall be coordinated
with the different stages of construction. Appropriate control measures shall
be installed prior to and maintained during development.
            b.   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size such
that adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one
period of time.
            c.   When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for the shortest
feasible period of time.
            d.   Where the topsoil is removed, sufficient arable soil shall be
set aside for re-spreading over the developed area. The soil shall be restored
to a depth of four inches and shall be of a quality at least equal to the soil
quality prior to development.
            e.   In addition, all erosion and sediment control shall be
conducted in accordance with subsection
1107.08.
         7.   Mailbox Units. Mailbox units, as recommended by the United States
Postal Services and approved by the City Engineer, shall be installed. All
development plans shall include the requirements of the City Engineer for
cluster box units. The final plat will not be released until the city is
provided with a maintenance declaration, subject to the review and approval of
the City Engineer, for the responsibility and cost to maintain the cluster box
units, and no certificate of occupancies shall be issued until the city is
provided with recording information.
   Subd. 2.   Development Contact. Prior to commencing grading or the
installation of any required improvements and prior to approval of the final
plat, the developer shall enter into a written development contract with the
city requiring the developer to furnish, construct, and complete said grading
and improvements in accordance with plans and specifications and usual
agreement conditions and/or pay appropriate costs for improvements or other
costs associated with the plat. Further, the contract shall provide for the
development of any restrictions, covenants, easements, signage, park or open
space requirements, or other conditions of the approved preliminary plat and
provide for the proper execution, recording or other action required. Approval
of the development contract shall be by City Council resolution.
         1.   For a project involving a phasing plan, the initial development
contract shall allow for grading, wetland mitigation, and installation of storm
water management facilities on the entire site included in the approved
preliminary plat. Such work may begin after approval of the preliminary plat
but only after approval, execution, and recording of the development contract
and payment of financial securities. Such work must comply with the approved
grading plan.
         2.   The construction of streets, facilities for sanitary sewer and
water, and other improvements beyond grading, wetland, and storm water
facilities shall not begin until approval of a final plat. Each subsequent
phase shall require a separate development contract for improvements beyond
those covered in previous contracts. Improvements in each phase shall not begin
until the final plat for that phase is approved and the development contract
for the phase is approved, executed, and recorded.
         3.   The initial development contract (for grading) may address
construction of streets and facilities for sanitary sewer and water for the
first phase and list the financial securities and other requirements. However,
the contract shall stipulate that the work on these improvements shall not
begin until approval of the final plat for the first phase and the provision of
all financial securities by the developer.
         4.   Each approved and executed development contract shall be
recorded. Each contract shall require that it is to be binding upon the
developer, his, her, or their heirs, personal representative, and assigns. It
shall stipulate that:
            a.   All improvements called for in the plat, or in any
supplementary contracts, must be complete within the time specified by the
city; and
            b.   No private construction shall be conducted on any lots in the
plat or filing of applications for building permits for said construction on
said lots, until all improvements required under the city regulations for the
proposed subdivision have been made or arranged in a manner provided for in
this section.
         5.   The development contract shall include provisions for
construction work inspection by the city and assurance that the developer will
conform with current testing requirements and quality control procedures of the
city. The developer shall provide documentation from a qualified testing
laboratory and/or registered professional engineer that all improvements have
been constructed in accordance with the requirements of the approved plans and
specifications.
         6.   The development contract shall require the developer to provide a
certification from a registered land surveyor or engineer that the land
included in the plat has been graded in conformance with the approved grading
plan prior to the issuance of building permits.
         7.   The development contract shall require the developer to provide a
financial security in the amount of 125% of the engineer’s estimate and ensure
payment of fees related to the subdivision.
         8.   A time schedule for completion of the work shall be determined by
the city upon recommendation of the City Engineer after consultation with the
developer and shall be reasonable in relation to the work to be done, the
seasons of the year, and proper coordination with construction activity in the
subdivision.
         9.   The development contract shall include action remedies in the
event of default, including:
            a.   The city may complete the improvements by contract or force
and obtain reimbursement of its costs from the posted security deposit; and
            b.   The city reserves the right to withhold building permits for
violation of any terms of the development contract.
         10.   The development contract shall require, when a plat includes an
area of 100 year flood, as indicated on the flood insurance rate map of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), an application for a letter of map
amendment (LOMA) or letter of map revision (LOMR) shall be submitted to FEMA,
and a copy furnished to the city, prior to the issuance of any building permits
in the platted area. The development contract may include financial security to
ensure the preparation of the FEMA application.
   Subd. 3.   The city reserves the right to install all or any part of the
improvements required under the provisions of this chapter pursuant to M.S.
Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time, and no applicant,
developer, owner, or subdivider shall install any such improvement unless
otherwise authorized to do so by the city.
SECTION 1110: ENFORCEMENT
§ 1110.01 Violations.
The violation of any provision of this chapter or the violation of the
conditions or provisions of any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, the violator shall be subject to
fine or imprisonment or both, as set forth in Minnesota Statutes plus, in
either case, the cost of prosecution.
   Subd. 1.   Sale of Lots from Unrecorded Plats. It shall be a misdemeanor to
sell, trade, or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land as part of, or in
conformity with, any plan, plat or replat of any subdivision or area located
within the jurisdiction of the city, unless said plan, plat, or replat shall
have first been recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds.
   Subd. 2.   Receiving or Recording Unapproved Plats. It shall be unlawful for
a private individual to receive or record in any public office any plans, plats
of land laid out in building lots and streets, alleys, or other portions of the
same intended to be dedicated to public or private use, or for the use of
purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto, and located
within the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless the same shall bear thereon, by
endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the City Council.
   Subd. 3.   Misrepresentations. It shall be a misdemeanor for any person
owning an addition or subdivision of land within the city to represent that any
improvement upon any of the streets, alleys or avenues of said addition or
subdivision or any sewer in said addition or subdivision has been constructed
according to the plans and specifications approved by the City Council, or has
been supervised or inspected by the city, when such improvement have not been
so constructed, supervised, or inspected.
§ 1110.02 Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day during which compliance is delayed or such
violation continues or occurs shall constitute a separate offense and may be
prosecuted as such.
§ 1110.03 Application to City Personnel.
The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any official duty
imposed by this chapter shall not subject the officer or employee to a penalty
imposed for violation unless a penalty is specifically provided for such
failure.
§ 1110.04 Injunction.
In the event of a violation or the threatened violation of any provision of
this chapter, or any provision or condition of a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter, the city, in addition to other remedies, may institute appropriate
actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate such violation
or threatened violation.
SECTION 1111: SEVERABILITY, SUPREMACY, AND EFFECTIVE DATE
§ 1111.01 Severability.
   Subd. 1.   Every section, provision, or part of this chapter or any permit
issued pursuant to this chapter is declared separable from every other section,
provision, or part thereof to the extent that, if any section, provision, or
part of this chapter or any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not invalidate any
other section, provision, or part thereof.
   Subd. 2.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall judge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property,
building, or structure, such judgment shall not affect other properties,
buildings, or structures.
§ 1111.02 Supremacy.
   Subd. 1.   When any condition imposed by a provision of this chapter on the
use of land or building or on the bulk of buildings is either more restrictive
or less restrictive than similar conditions imposed by any provision of any
city ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive conditions shall prevail.
   Subd. 2.   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easements,
restrictions, or covenants relating to the use of land within the city by
private declaration or agreement, but where the provisions of this chapter are
more restrictive than any such easement, restriction, or covenant, or the
provision of any private agreement, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail.
§ 1111.03 Effective Date.
Adopted by the City Council this April 26, 2023.
CHAPTER 12: RESERVED
CHAPTER 13: SIGNS
Subsection
Section 1300: Sign Ordinance
   
1300.01   Purpose
   
1300.02   Definitions
   
1300.03   Sign Permits
   
1300.04   General Sign Regulations
   
1300.05   Sign Area and Location Regulation
   
1300.06   Standards for Permanent Signs
   
1300.07   Multi-Tenant Buildings
   
1300.08   Standards for Temporary Signs
   
1300.09   Prohibited Signs
   
1300.10   Exemptions
   
1300.11   Non-Conforming Signs
   
1300.12   Abandoned Signs
   
1300.13   Enforcement
   
1300.14   Variances
   
1300.15   Substitution Clause
   
1300.16   Severability
SECTION 1300: SIGN ORDINANCE
§ 1300.01 Purpose.
   Subd. 1.   It is not the purpose or intent of this chapter to regulate the
message displayed on any sign; nor is it the purpose or intent of this chapter
to regulate any building design or any display not defined as a sign, or any
sign which cannot be viewed from outside a building. The purpose and intent of
this chapter is to:
         1.   Regulate the number, location, size, type, illumination, and
other physical characteristics of signs within the city in order to promote the
public health, safety, and welfare;
         2.   Maintain, enhance, and improve the aesthetic environment of the
city by preventing visual clutter that is harmful to the appearance of the
community;
         3.   Improve the visual appearance of the city while providing for
effective means of communication, consistent with constitutional guarantees and
the city’s goals of public safety and aesthetics;
         4.   Provide for fair and consistent enforcement of the sign
regulations set forth herein under the zoning authority of the city;
         5.   Ensure adequate means of expression as allowed by the first
amendment of the U.S. Constitution and other federal, state, and local laws;
and
         6.   Minimize hazards caused by signs that are structurally unsound,
interfere with sightlines, or unduly distract drivers, pedestrians, or
bicyclists.
   Subd. 2.   Applicability. Any sign visible from a public street erected,
altered, or maintained after the effective date of this ordinance shall conform
to the regulations in this chapter.
   Subd. 3.   Interpretation.
         1.   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals,
and general welfare.
         2.   When any condition imposed by any provision of this chapter is
either more restrictive or less restrictive than similar conditions imposed by
any provision of any other applicable law, City Code provision, statute,
resolution, or regulation of any kind, the more restrictive one, which imposes
higher standards or requirements, shall prevail.
§ 1300.02 Definitions.
The following terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings stated.
All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest tenth of a
foot. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Awning Sign. A building sign attached to, affixed to, or painted on an awning.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7630f31a49d9a5c72bf6cd42e5fcccf773532671/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.jpg]
Banner Sign. A sign made of fabric or other similar nonrigid material with no
enclosing framework or electrical components that is supported or anchored on
two or more edges or at all four corners.
Billboard. An off-premises sign intended by the sign owner to be available for
sale, lease, or rental for the purpose of promoting any commercial activity
which is not situated on the same property as the billboard or of promoting any
product or service which is not primarily available on the same property as the
billboard; and incidentally used for the display of public service messages.
Building Sign. A building sign is attached to or supported by a building
whether it is the wall, window, or roof of the building. This sign type
includes awning, canopy, marquee, projecting, roof, and wall signs.
Canopy Sign. A building sign attached to, affixed to, or painted on a canopy.
Double-Faced Sign. A sign with two identical faces that is designed so only one
face can be viewed at one time. Only one side of a double face or V-type sign
structure shall be used in computing total surface area, provided the maximum
angle between faces of double-faced or V-type signs is 45 degrees.
Electronic Message Center (EMC). A sign that can display words, symbols,
figures, or images that can be electronically changed by remote or automatic
means.
Flag. Any fabric or flexible material attached to or designed to be flown from
a flagpole or other similar structure.
Freestanding Sign. A sign on a frame, pole, or other, support structure not
attached to any building. This sign type includes pylon, post and arm, and
monument signs.
Internal Wayfinding. A sign used to aid customers in circulation within parking
areas for multifamily or non-residential uses. These signs could come in the
form of monument, pylon, post and arm, or wall sign types.
Marquee Sign. Any building sign attached to a marquee, a permanent roof-like
structure projecting beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond
the wall of the building, generally designed and constructed to provide
protection from the weather.
Menu Board. A freestanding menu sign oriented to the drive-through lane for a
restaurant, coffee shop, or other establishment.
Monument Sign. A freestanding sign supported primarily by an internal
structural framework or integrated into landscaping or other solid structural
features other than support poles.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7630f31a49d9a5c72bf6cd42e5fcccf773532671/
IMAGES/0-0-0-29.jpg]
Mural. All or any portion of artwork upon the exterior wall of a building or
other structure which would not constitute a sign under this section.
Off-Premise Sign. A sign whose message is unrelated to the premises or the
activity and use occurring on the premises on which the sign is located.
On-Premise Sign. A sign whose message is related to the premises or the
activity and use occurring on the premises on which the sign is located.
Permanent Sign. A sign structure that is intended for permanent display due to
the construction, materials, placement, or installation. See also “building”
and “freestanding sign” definitions.
Post and Arm Sign. A type of freestanding sign supported by a post and arm.
Projecting Sign. A type of building sign extending outward from the face of the
building.
Pylon Sign. A freestanding sign supported by two posts so that the sign and
supports are finished to grade by encasing the posts in a material consistent
with the sign.
Roof Sign. Any single or double-faced signs mounted upon the roof of a
building. This also includes signs painted or displayed directly upon the roof
surface.
Rotating Sign. A sign that revolves, rotates, or mechanically moves.
Sign. A device, structure, or fixture which communicates a message using words,
graphics, letters, figures, symbols, trademarks, or other visual
representations. Painted wall designs or patterns are not considered signs.
Temporary Sign. A sign intended to display either commercial or non-commercial
messages of a transitory or temporary nature. Portable signs or any sign not
permanently embedded in the ground, or not permanently affixed to a building or
sign structure that is permanently embedded in the ground, are considered
temporary signs.
Wall Sign. A building sign mounted flat against a wall or painted on the wall
of a building or structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane
parallel to the face of the wall.
Window Sign. A sign posted, painted, placed, or affixed to the interior or
exterior of a window.
§ 1300.03 Sign Permits.
   Subd. 1.   Applicability. Permanent and temporary sign structures shall
require a sign permit in all districts.
   Subd. 2.   Application.
         1.   A sign permit application shall be submitted for all signs
requiring a permit.
         2.   All sign permit applications shall be accompanied by a permit fee
according to the adopted fee schedule.
         3.   A sign permit application shall be accompanied by the following
items:
            a.   A site plan and/or building elevations showing the position,
height, and dimensions of the sign(s) in relation to all nearby existing or
proposed buildings, structures, and property lines;
            b.   Written consent of the property owner of the building or site
upon which a sign is to be erected, constructed, or maintained; and
            c.   Such other information as the Zoning Administrator requires to
show full compliance with this and all other laws and ordinances of the city.
   Subd. 3.   Review. Sign permits are reviewed administratively by the Zoning
Administrator with a determination made within ten days from the time an
application has been deemed complete.
   Subd. 4.   Appeals.
         1.   Applicants wishing to appeal a determination by the Zoning
Administrator shall do so in writing within 30 days of said determination.
         2.   Appeals from the Zoning Administrator’s determination shall be
heard by the Board of Adjustment and Appeals and a recommendation made to City
Council.
         3.   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall consider the appeal
within 45 days of filing of said appeal by the applicant.
   Subd. 5.   Nullification. A sign permit shall become null and void if the
work for which the permit was issued has not been completed within a period of
six months after the date of the permit. A permit may be renewed, and no
additional fee shall be collected for the renewal.
   Subd. 6.   Revocation. The city may revoke a permit when a sign is in
violation of this chapter or any other ordinance in the city. Any signs
installed under a revoked permit shall be removed within ten days of written
notice of the revocation. If the owner or lessee fails to remove the sign, the
Zoning Administrator shall give the owner 30 days’ written notice to remove it.
Upon failure to comply with the notice, the Zoning Administrator may have the
sign removed at the owner’s expense.
§ 1300.04 General Sign Regulations.
   Subd. 1.   Applicability. All permanent and temporary signs, except official
traffic and street signs, shall conform to the provisions of this section and
any other ordinance or regulations of the city.
   Subd. 2.   Sign Area Measurement.
         1.   The area to be calculated is the area within the smallest
rectilinear perimeter that contains the entire signboard or module. The area of
a sphere shall be computed as the area of a circle.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7630f31a49d9a5c72bf6cd42e5fcccf773532671/
IMAGES/0-0-0-31.jpg]
         2.   Only one side of a double-faced sign shall be considered in
determining the total display surface area. The face shall be that portion of a
sign upon which the message, advertisement, or similar display is presented, as
distinguished from the structural members.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7630f31a49d9a5c72bf6cd42e5fcccf773532671/
IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
   Subd. 3.   Sign Height Measurement. The height of a sign shall be measured
from the post construction grade, or, if elevations of the centerline of the
nearest frontage street are provided by the sign applicant, this point of
elevation may be used rather than the existing grade.
   Subd. 4.   Setbacks. Unless specifically noted otherwise, all permanent
freestanding signs shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from any property
line and a minimum of five feet from any parking area or driveway. The city may
require a greater or lesser setback due to public safety reasons, which may
include the following conditions: vehicle sight distance, distance from
intersection, designation of adjacent right-of-way. Menu boards and internal
wayfinding signs are exempt from the setback from the parking area or driveway.
   Subd. 5.   Placement.
         1.   No sign shall be placed in such a position as to endanger
pedestrians, bicyclists, or traffic on a street by obscuring the view or by
interfering with official street signs or signals.
         2.   No sign may be located within a clear view triangle as specified
in subsection
1001.02.
         3.   Signs and their supporting structures shall not interfere with
any surface and underground utility or communications lines or equipment.
         4.   No sign shall be mounted on chimneys, rooftop equipment, towers,
cooling towers, elevator penthouses, commercial antennas, communication towers,
belfries, church spires, and cupolas.
         5.   No sign shall be pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         6.   No sign shall be pasted or attached to city property or equipment
without permission from the governing body and shall be subject to all related
laws and ordinances.
   Subd. 6.   Materials and Construction.
         1.   All signs shall be constructed of durable materials using
noncorrosive fastenings.
         2.   All signs shall be constructed in such a manner and of such
material to be considered safe and substantial.
         3.   Signs which utilize electricity must meet the following
provisions:
            a.   Be installed in accordance with the current applicable
electrical code;
            b.   All necessary electrical and building permits must be obtained
prior to placement;
            c.   Electrical service to freestanding signs shall be underground;
            d.   Exposed wiring or conduit shall not be allowed, unless the
conduit matches the surface it is attached to; and
            e.   All work must be completed by an electrical contractor
licensed by the state.
   Subd. 7.   External Lighting.
         1.   Lighting must be directed at the sign and must be shielded (not
be visible to pedestrians, motorists, or neighboring residents or businesses).
         2.   Lighted signs shall be no closer than 20 feet from the nearest
residential property and shall be illuminated in compliance with subsection
1006.01, Subd. 8.
   Subd. 8.   Maintenance.
         1.   All signs and components thereof shall be kept in good repair and
in safe, neat, clean, and attractive condition and in compliance with all
applicable Building Code requirements.
         2.   All permanent signs shall be properly painted, including all
parts and supports of the sign unless such parts or supports are galvanized or
otherwise treated to prevent rust.
         3.   Any sign which becomes structurally unsafe or endangers the
safety of a building or premises, or endangers the public safety, shall be
considered a public nuisance and shall repaired or removed by the owner, agent,
or person having the beneficial use of the building, structure, or land upon
which the sign is located within ten days after written notification from the
Zoning Administrator.
§ 1300.05 Sign Area and Location Regulation.
   Subd. 1.   Applicability. The following district regulations and sign
standards are applicable to all permanent and temporary sign types.
   Subd. 2.   Acceptable Sign Types and Sign Dimensional Standards by Zoning.
See standards for sign types in subsection
1300.06.
Sign Types Zoning
Permanent  R-1, R-2, R-4, R-5 R-3 B-1, B-2, I-1, I-2, I-3 TOD
Sign Types     Zoning
Permanent      R-1, R-2, R-4, R-5 R-3     B-1, B-2, I-1, I- TOD
                                          2, I-3
Awning         NA                 NA      Allowed           Allowed
Canopy         NA                 NA      Allowed           Allowed
Electronic     NA                 NA      Allowed           Allowed
Message Center
                                                            Allowed, see
Freestanding   Allowed            Allowed Allowed           subsection 1004.06
                                                            for restrictions
Internal       NA                 Allowed Allowed           Allowed
Wayfinding
Menu Board     NA                 NA      Allowed           Allowed
Temporary (all Allowed            Allowed Allowed           Allowed
types) *
Wall           NA                 Allowed Allowed           Allowed
Window         NA                 NA      Allowed           Allowed
Notes to Table:
NA means “not allowed.”
*   Refer to subsection
1300.08 for a list of temporary sign types
 
   Subd. 3.   Planned Unit Developments. All developments must comply with
standards for the underlying zoning district. PUD sign plans may be requested
as part of the preliminary PUD development plan.
§ 1300.06 Standards for Permanent Signs.
   Subd. 1.   Awning Sign.
         1.   Signs shall not exceed 75% of individual awning area or awning
width.
         2.   One awning sign per side of structure with street frontage.
         3.   The awning structure shall have a minimum eight-foot vertical
clearance above sidewalk or pathway.
   Subd. 2.   Canopy Sign.
         1.   Signs shall not exceed 75% of individual canopy area or canopy
width.
         2.   One canopy sign per side of structure with street frontage.
         3.   The canopy structure shall have a minimum eight-foot vertical
clearance above sidewalk or pathway.
         4.   The sign may be placed on the front, above, or suspended below
the canopy.
   Subd. 3.   Electronic Message Centers (EMC).
         1.   General.
            a.   EMCs shall only be permitted on freestanding signs and wall
signs.
            b.   Non-conforming signs shall not be eligible for conversion to
an electronic message center.
            c.   EMC wall signs shall be limited to a maximum of 40% of the
allowed wall signage for the building front.
         2.   Structures per Site. One electronic message center sign structure
may be allowed per street frontage, not to exceed two EMC sign structures per
site. Each structure may have two sign faces.
         3.   Height. EMCs shall adhere to the height standards for
freestanding signs.
         4.   EMC Display.
            a.   EMCs shall maintain no less than an eight-second cycle time
for any images and messages.
            b.   Any change from one static display to another must be
instantaneous and shall not include any distracting effects, such as
dissolving, spinning, or fading. Animation, motion, or video displays are
prohibited.
            c.   The images and messages displayed must be complete in
themselves without continuation in content to the next image or message or to
any other sign.
            d.   No EMC shall have a brightness level that exceeds three-tenths
foot-candle above ambient light as measured from the property line.
            e.   Signs using an LED (light emitting diode) light source shall
not exceed a luminance level of 500 candela per square meter (nits) between
sunset and sunrise, and shall not exceed a luminance level of 5,000 candela per
square meter between sunrise and sunset.
            f.   All EMC signs shall include certification from the sign’s
manufacturer that the sign has been preset to conform to the luminance levels
noted above, and these settings are protected from end users’ manipulation by
password protected software.
            g.   EMCs may use multiple colors within the display, but the use
of color shall not create distraction or a hazard to the public health, safety,
or welfare.
         5.   Operation.
            a.   All EMCs shall be equipped with a means to immediately
discontinue the display if it malfunctions.
            b.   The owner of an EMC must immediately cease operation of their
sign when notified by the city that it fails to comply with the standards of
this chapter.
   Subd. 4.   Freestanding (includes monument, pylon, and post and arm sign
types).
         1.   The total area of a freestanding sign face shall not exceed:
            a.   Thirty-two square feet for a residential subdivision sign in
the R-1, R-2, R-4, and R-5 Districts.
            b.   One square foot of surface area per one foot of lineal street
frontage, not to exceed 100 square feet in the R-3 District and 150 square feet
in the business and industrial zoning districts.
         2.   One freestanding sign per lot, except in the R-1, R-2, R-4, and
R-5 where one monument sign is permitted per subdivision.
         3.   Height:
            a.   Post and arm signs shall not exceed five feet above existing
grade;
            b.   Monument signs shall not exceed eight feet above existing
grade;
            c.   Pylon signs shall not exceed 30 feet above existing grade; and
            d.   Electronic message center signs shall not exceed eight feet
above existing grade.
   Subd. 5.   Internal Wayfinding Sign.
         1.   Appropriate number of signs to provide directional assistance
given size of site and circulation pattern as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
         2.   Individual signs may not exceed six square feet in size.
         3.   Signs shall not exceed eight feet in height.
         4.   Internal wayfinding signs may come in the form of monument,
pylon, or post and arm sign types.
         5.   Signs shall be designed in a uniform manner (within individual
subdivision or center) using consistent background color and typeface colors.
   Subd. 6.   Lake Service Signs.
         1.   Any business which provides a service to a lake and/or is located
within 200 feet of a lake may apply for a permit.
         2.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the Shoreland
Management Zoning District if they are designed and sized to be the minimum
necessary to convey needed information as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
         3.   Lake service signs may not exceed ten feet above the natural
grade level and the maximum size of such sign is limited to 32 square feet in
area.
         4.   If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be shielded
or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters.
   Subd. 7.   Marquee.
         1.   Signs shall not exceed 75% of the size of the marquee.
         2.   Placement.
            a.   Marquee structure shall have a minimum eight feet vertical
clearance above sidewalk or pathway.
            b.   May be placed on the front, above, or below the canopy.
   Subd. 8.   Menu Board Signs.
         1.   No more than two signs that serve customers via automobiles are
allowed with a maximum total combined area of 64 square feet.
         2.   In no instance shall a sign be greater than 50 square feet or
exceed nine feet in height from grade to the top of the sign.
         3.   Extenders shall not be attached to any sign in excess of the
maximum size allowed. The menu board sign area may be additional to the
permitted wall and freestanding sign area allotted to the building.
   Subd. 9.   Wall.
         1.   One sign per tenant per facade visible from an adjacent street,
alley, or customer parking lot.
         2.   Total wall signage shall not exceed the following: 10% of the
building front.
         3.   Wall signs shall not stand more than four inches away from the
wall.
         4.   Wall signs shall maintain a minimum vertical clearance of eight
feet above sidewalk grade.
   Subd. 10.   Window. Permanent window signs are limited to one-third of the
total surface area of the window to which they are affixed.
(Ord. 2025-04, passed 4-23-2025)
§ 1300.07 Multi-Tenant Buildings.
   Subd. 1.   The property owner shall be responsible for allocating the
allowable sign area among the tenants of multi-tenant buildings. If the owner
does not allocate the sign area, the city may do so based on the relative floor
area or tenant frontage.
   Subd. 2.   The total surface area of all individual signs on the buildings
shall not exceed the maximum square footage requirements per subsection
1300.05, Subd. 3.
   Subd. 3.   A master sign plan is required to control total sign area and
sign placement to help eliminate incongruities as tenants/occupants change.
         1.   No permit shall be issued for an individual sign per subsection
1300.03 without a submittal of a master sign plan as part of the permit
application.
         2.   A master sign plan shall contain the following information:
            a.   A scaled site plan showing location of buildings, parking
lots, driveways, and landscaped areas and an accurate indication on the site
plan of the proposed location of present and future signs of any type, whether
requiring a permit or not.
            b.   Scaled color drawings clearly showing the location of the sign
on the site or building elevation.
            c.   Dimensions of each sign per the plan, including a summary
table with said dimensions.
            d.   The plan shall bear the signature of all owners or their
authorized agents in such form as required by the city or as a part of
applicable and active restrictive covenants.
            e.   A master sign plan may be amended by filing administratively a
new master sign plan that conforms to all requirements of this chapter.
            f.   After approval of a master sign plan by the Zoning
Administrator, no sign shall be erected, placed, painted, or maintained, except
in conformance with approved master sign plan and such plan may be enforced in
the same way as provisions of this chapter.
§ 1300.08 Standards for Temporary Signs.
   Subd. 1.   Applicability. Temporary signs are not intended for permanent
installation. Temporary signs come in a variety of types, each of which are
regulated below. Where not specifically defined, temporary signs shall be
regulated per Subd. 2 below.
   Subd. 2.   General Regulations.
         1.   Permit. A permit shall be obtained for each location and time
period for placement of temporary signs, except:
            a.   A permit for temporary signs under eight square feet in area
shall not be required to obtain a permit provided that the posting date of the
sign is legibly and permanently printed on the sign; and/or
            b.   Farm stands in any district are permitted to display a
temporary sign less than 16 square feet in area during the period of sales.
Temporary commercial signs shall advertise an activity on the property on which
they are located.
         2.   Location. If attached to a building, sign shall be flat and shall
not project above the room line.
         3.   Limit. No more than four temporary signs may be placed on a site
at any one time.
         4.   Time. No temporary sign shall be located on a property for more
than 60 consecutive days.
         5.   Placement. Per M.S. § 211B.045, as it may be amended from time to
time, all non-commercial signs of any size may be posted in any number
beginning 46 days before the state primary in a state general election year
until ten days following the state general election. The same time limitations
shall apply to local elections. Placement of such signs shall adhere to Subd.
2.1 above.
         6.   Maintenance. All temporary signs must be maintained and shall be
removed if material shows signs of wear such as fraying, fading, chipping, or
other physical damage.
   Subd. 3.   Specific Regulations by Type of Temporary Sign.
         1.   A-Frame (Sandwich Board).
            a.   Signs must leave a minimum of six feet of clear walkway on the
sidewalk.
            b.   One sign allowed per business, ten square feet per side, four
feet in height.
            c.   Such signs shall not be left on the sidewalk overnight.
         2.   Banner Sign.
            a.   Banner signs may extend across a public street only by
permission of the governing body and shall be subject to all related laws and
ordinances.
            b.   One sign per property.
            c.   The maximum sign area for a banner sign shall be 32 square
feet.
            d.   Signs may be supported by posts or stakes which are attached
to the ground or securely attached to the face of a building.
         3.   Flag.
            a.   Sign shall be set back no less than ten feet from the curb or
street.
            b.   The maximum aggregate area of all flag signs shall not exceed
32 square feet.
            c.   A flagpole shall not exceed a height of 25 feet.
         4.   Freestanding.
            a.   The top of the sign shall not extend more than six feet above
ground level.
            b.   The maximum sign area is 32 square feet.
            c.   The sign shall be set back no less than ten feet from the curb
or street.
         5.   Window signs.
            a.   Location. No limit on the location of the sign except as
otherwise specified in this Code.
            b.   Limit. Window signs are limited to 75% of the total surface
area of the window to which they are affixed.
§ 1300.09 Prohibited Signs.
   Subd. 1.   Prohibited sign types:
         1.   Billboards;
         2.   Flashing lights;
         3.   Inflatable signs;
         4.   Marquee signs;
         5.   Off-premises signs;
         6.   Projecting signs;
         7.   Roof signs;
         8.   Rotating signs;
         9.   Signs that produce sound or include a noisemaking device or
instrument for any purpose other than regulatory;
         10.   Signs on or attached to mobile equipment where the sign is a
principal use of the equipment on either a temporary or permanent basis; and
         11.   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed as
a traffic control device, or which hide from view any traffic or street sign or
signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
   Subd. 2.   Prohibited signs are subject to removal by the city at the
owner’s expense.
§ 1300.10 Exemptions.
The following are not regulated by this chapter:
         1.   Building addresses;
         2.   Historic plaques;
         3.   Governmental signs for control of traffic and other regulatory or
notification purposes as governed under Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices (MUTCD) and State MUTCD;
         4.   Murals;
         5.   Real estate signs;
         6.   Notices required to be posted by law, including, but not limited
to warning signs, dangerous dog, hazardous building, building permit, and the
like;
         7.   Seasonal decorations, including inflatable seasonal decorations;
and
         8.   Sculptures.
§ 1300.11 Non-Conforming Signs.
   Subd. 1.   Intent. A non-conforming sign is any sign that was legally
established and maintained in compliance with the provisions of all applicable
laws in effect at the time of original installation but that does not now
comply with the provisions of this chapter. It is the intent of this chapter to
recognize that the eventual elimination of signs that do not comply with the
provisions of this chapter is as important as the prohibition of new signs that
would violate these standards.
   Subd. 2.   General Requirements. A non-conforming sign may not be:
         1.   Changed to another non-conforming sign;
         2.   Expanded;
         3.   Re-established after a business discontinued for more than one
year; or
         4.   Re-established after damage or destruction of more than 50% of
its value, as determined by the Building Official, and no building permit has
been applied for within 180 days of when the damage occurred.
   Subd. 3.   Amortization. After the date of enactment of this chapter, non-
conforming signs located within any zoning district shall be brought into
compliance with this chapter if said sign is to be expanded.
   Subd. 4.   Maintenance and Repair. Non-conforming signs and sign structures
may be maintained and repaired.
§ 1300.12 Abandoned Signs.
An abandoned sign is a sign that has been inactive for a period of at least one
year. An abandoned sign shall be removed by the owner or lessee of the premises
upon which the sign is located when the activity related to said sign is no
longer conducted on the premises. If the owner or lessee fails to remove the
sign, the Zoning Administrator shall give the owner 30 days’ written notice to
remove it. Upon failure to comply with the notice, the Zoning Administrator may
have the sign removed at the owner’s expense.
§ 1300.13 Enforcement.
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced and administered in accordance
with the provision of the Zoning Code.
§ 1300.14 Variance.
The city may grant a variance to provide relief to a property owner when the
strict enforcement of the regulations for sign size, setbacks, height, and the
like imposes practical difficulty on the property owner’s ability to reasonably
display a message. Financial considerations are not justification for
variances. The procedure for reviewing a variance shall follow that process
outlined for zoning variances in subsection 1002.14.
§ 1300.15 Substitution Clause.
Any sign allowed under this section may contain, in lieu of any other message
or copy, any lawful non-commercial message or copy.
§ 1300.16 Severability.
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
section or its application to any person or situation should be held to be
invalid or unconstitutional for any reason by a court or competent
jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the
validity or constitutionality of the remaining portions of this section or its
application to any other person or situation. -of-Way Management
CHAPTER 14: RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
 
   
1400.01   Findings, Purpose, and Intent
   
1400.02   Election to Manage the Public Right-of-Way
   
1400.03   Definitions
   
1400.04   Administration
   
1400.05   Registration and Right-of-Way Occupancy
   
1400.06   Registration Information
   
1400.07   Permit Requirement
   
1400.08   Permit Applications
   
1400.09   Issuance of Permit; Conditions
   
1400.10   Action on Small Cell Wireless Facility Permit Applications
   
1400.11   Permit Fees
   
1400.12   Right-of-Way Patching and Restoration
   
1400.13   Joint Trench Applications
   
1400.14   Supplementary Applications
   
1400.15   Other Obligations
   
1400.16   Denial of Permit
   
1400.17   Installation Requirements
   
1400.18   Inspection
   
1400.19   Work Done Without a Permit
   
1400.20   Supplementary Notification
   
1400.21   Revocation of Permits
   
1400.22   Mapping Data
   
1400.23   Location and Relocation of Facilities
   
1400.24   Pre-Excavation Facilities Location
   
1400.25   Damage to Other Facilities
   
1400.26   Right-of-Way Vacation
   
1400.27   Indemnification and Liability
   
1400.28   Abandoned and Unusable Facilities
   
1400.29   Appeal
   
1400.30   Severability
1400.RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
§ 1400.01 Findings, Purpose, and Intent.
   Subd. 1.   To provide for the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens,
and to ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the
rights-of-way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good
repair and free from unnecessary encumbrances. Accordingly, the city hereby
enacts this new chapter of this code relating to right-of-way permits and
administration. This chapter imposes reasonable regulation on the placement and
maintenance of facilities and equipment currently within its rights-of-way or
to be placed therein at some future time. It is intended to complement the
regulatory roles of state and federal agencies. Under this chapter, persons
excavating and obstructing the rights-of-way will bear financial responsibility
for their work. Finally, this chapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket
and projected costs from persons using the public rights-of-way.
   Subd. 2.   This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session
Laws, Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the “Act”) and the other laws governing applicable
rights of the city and users of the right-of-way, as they may be amended from
time to time. This chapter shall also be interpreted consistent with Minn.
Rules 7819.0050 to 7819.9950, as they may be amended from time to time, where
possible. To the extent any provision of this chapter cannot be interpreted
consistently with the Minnesota Rules, that interpretation most consistent with
the Act and other applicable statutory and case law is intended. This chapter
shall not be interpreted to limit the regulatory and police powers of the city
to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the public.
§ 1400.02 Election to Manage the Public Rights-of-Way.
Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant to
M.S. § 237.163, subd. 2(b), as it may be amended from time to time, to manage
rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
§ 1400.03 Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Abandoned Facility. A facility no longer in service or physically disconnected
from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other facility, that is
in use or still carries service.
Applicant. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way.
City. The City of Big Lake, Minnesota. “City” also means its elected officials,
officers, employees, and agents.
Collocate or Collocation. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure or utility pole that is owned privately or by the
city or other governmental unit.
Commission. The State Public Utilities Commission.
Congested Right-of-Way. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, over a continuous length in excess of 500 feet.
Construction Performance Bond. Any of the following forms of security provided
at permittee’s option:
         1.   Individual project bond;
         2.   Cash deposit;
         3.   Letter of credit in a form acceptable to the city; or
         4.   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
Degradation. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
Degradation Cost. Subject to Minn. Rules part 7819.1100, as it may be amended
from time to time, means the cost to achieve a level of restoration, as
determined by the city at the time the permit is issued, not to exceed the
maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to 13, set forth in Minn. Rules parts
7819.9900 to 7819.9950, as they may be amended from time to time.
Degradation Fee. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by the
city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of the
right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation cost.
This fee is in addition to the permittee’s obligation to fully restore the
right-of-way.
Delay Penalty. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in right-
of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established by
permit.
Department. The Department of Public Works of the city.
Department Inspector. Any person authorized by the city to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this chapter.
Director. The Director of the Department of Public Works of the city, or his or
her designee.
Emergency. A condition that poses a danger to life or health, or a significant
loss of property, or requires immediate repair or replacement of facilities in
order to restore service to a customer.
Equipment. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain facilities
in any right-of-way.
Excavate. To dig into, directionally bore, or in any way remove or physically
disturb or penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
Facility or Facilities. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service.
Five-Year Project Plan. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next five years.
High Density Corridor. A designated portion of the public-right-of-way within
which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and competing
facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a common conduit
system or other common structure.
Hole. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length less
than the width of the pavement.
Local Representative. A local person or persons, or designee of such person or
persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions for
that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
Management Costs. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-of-
way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way or small wireless
facility permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-
way work; determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way or small wireless facility permits.
Management costs do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way, the fees and costs of litigation relating
to the interpretation of 1997 Session Laws 1997, Chapter 123; M.S. §§ 237.162
or 237.163, as they may be amended from time to time; or any ordinance enacted
under those sections, or the city fees and costs related to appeals taken
pursuant to this chapter.
Obstruct. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder free
and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
Patch or Patching. A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A patch consists of:
         1.   The compaction of the sub-base and aggregate base; and
         2.   The replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum
of two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions.
Pavement. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-way
and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
Permit. The meaning given “right-of-way permit” in M.S. § 237.162, as it may be
amended from time to time.
Permittee. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-way
has been granted by the city under this chapter.
Person. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or non-profit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
Probation. The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions of
this chapter.
Probationary Period. One year from the date that a person has been notified in
writing that they have been put on probation.
Public Right-of-Way. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, cartway, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk in which the city has an
interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and
utility easements of the city. A right-of-way does not include the airwaves
above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other nonwire
telecommunications or broadcast service. Public right-of-way includes outlots,
parks, and drainage and utility easements.
Registrant. Any person who:
         1.   Has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities located in any
right-of-way; or
         2.   In any way occupies, or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the
right-of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the right-of-way.
Restore or Restoration. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement, foundation, sidewalk, and trail is
returned to the same condition and life expectancy that existed before
excavation.
Restoration Cost. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to the plates 1 to 13 of State
Public Utilities Commission rules.
Right-of-Way Permit. Either the excavation permit, the obstruction permit, the
small cell permit, or any combination thereof, depending on the context,
required by this chapter.
Right-of-Way User.
         1.   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by M.S. §
237.162, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time; or
         2.   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way
that is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has
a right under law, franchise, or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
Service or Utility Service. Includes:
         1.   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time;
         2.   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
         3.   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in M.S.
Chapter 238, as it may be amended from time to time;
         4.   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
         5.   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Chapter 308A, as it may be amended from time to time; and
         6.   Water and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling, or
heating services.
Service Lateral. An underground facility that is used to transmit, distribute,
or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common source to
an end-use customer. A service lateral is also an underground facility that is
used in the removal of wastewater from a customer’s premises.
Small Wireless Facility. A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
         1.   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or could fit within such an enclosure; and
         2.   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility, provided such equipment is, in aggregate, no more than 28 cubic feet
in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any equipment
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment.
Supplementary Application. An application made to excavate or obstruct more of
the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend a permit that had already been
issued.
Telecommunications Right-of-Way User. A person owning or controlling a facility
in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the right-of-
way, that is used or is intended to be used for transporting telecommunication
or other voice or data information. For purposes of this chapter, a cable
communication system defined and regulated under M.S. Chapter 238, as it may be
amended from time to time, and telecommunication activities related to
providing natural gas or electric energy services whether provided by a public
utility as defined in M.S. § 216B.02, as it may be amended from time to time, a
municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized under M.S. Chapters 453
and 453A, as they may be amended from time to time, or a cooperative electric
association organized under M.S. Chapter 308A, as it may be amended from time
to time, are not telecommunications right-of-way users for purposes of this
chapter.
Temporary Surface. The compaction of sub-base and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation.
Trench. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
Wireless Facility. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision of
wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including equipment associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and a
small wireless facility, but not including wireless support structures,
wireline backhaul facilities, or cables between utility poles or wireless
support structures, or not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
Wireless Service. Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless spectrum,
including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means of a mobile
device, that is provided using wireless facilities. Wireless service does not
include services regulated under Title VI of the Communications Act of 1934,
being 47 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., as amended, including cable service.
Wireless Support Structure. A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the city.
§ 1400.04 Administration.
The Director is the principal city official responsible for the administration
of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances related thereto.
The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
§ 1400.05 Registration and Right-of-Way Occupancy.
   Subd. 1.   Registration. Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to
occupy or use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on
the right-of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance
responsibilities by lease, sublease, or assignment, must register with the
city. Registration will consist of providing application information and paying
a registration fee.
   Subd. 2.   Registration Prior to Work. No person may construct, install,
repair, remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities
or any part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with
the city.
   Subd. 3.   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend
the provisions of city ordinances concerning boulevard plantings or gardens in
the area of the right-of-way between their property and the street curb.
However, nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the provisions of
the M.S. Chapter 216D, Gopher One-Call Law, as it may be amended from time to
time.
§ 1400.06 Registration Information.
   Subd. 1.   Information Required. The information provided to the city at the
time of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
         1.   Each registrant’s name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
number;
         2.   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and
telephone and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local
representative or designee shall be available at all times. Current information
regarding how to contact the local representative in an emergency shall be
provided at the time of registration;
         3.   A certificate of insurance:
            a.   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state
acceptable to the city;
            b.   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
               i.   Placement and occupancy of the right-of-way by the
registrant, its officers, agents, employees, and permittees; and
               ii.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the
right-of-way by the registrant, its officers, agents, employees, and
permittees, including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising
from completed operations, damage of underground facilities, and collapse of
property.
            c.   Naming the city and its engineering consultants as an
additional insured as to whom the coverages required herein are in force and
applicable and for whom defense will be provided as to all such coverages;
            d.   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
            e.   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers’ compensation, and umbrella coverage. The limits of
the coverage shall not be less than $1,000,000.
         4.   The city will require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
         5.   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed as recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State;
         6.   The registrant shall submit a construction performance bond, cash
deposit, letter of credit, or blanket bond in the amount of $10,000 to the
city. The security is to ensure compliance with the approved plan; and
         7.   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the State Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or federal
agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such certificate from
said Commission or other state or federal agency.
   Subd. 2.   Notice of Changes. The registrant shall keep all of the
information listed above current at all times by providing to the city
information as to changes within 15 days following the date on which the
registrant has knowledge of any change.
§ 1400.07 Permit Required.
   Subd. 1.   Permit Required. Except as otherwise provided in this Code, no
person may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained
the appropriate right-of-way permit from the city to do so.
         1.   Permit. A permit is required by a registrant to excavate or
directionally bore that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and
to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way
by placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
         2.   Small Wireless Facility Permit. A small wireless facility permit
is required by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support structure,
to collocate a small wireless facility, or to otherwise install a small
wireless facility in the specified portion or the right-of-way, to the extent
specified therein, provided that such permit shall remain in effect for the
length of time the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked.
   Subd. 2.   Permit Extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-
of-way beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless:
            a.   Such person makes a supplementary application for another
right-of-way permit before the expiration of the initial permit; and
            b.   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   Subd. 3.   Delay Penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000,
subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time, and notwithstanding Subd. 2
above, the city shall establish and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable
delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration. The
delay penalty shall be established from time to time by City Council
resolution.
   Subd. 4.   Permit Display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
§ 1400.08 Permit Applications.
Application for a permit is made to the city. Right-of-way permit applications
shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon compliance with, the
requirements of the following provisions:
         1.   Registration with the city pursuant to this chapter;
         2.   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities;
         3.   Payment of money due the city for:
            a.   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs, and other management
costs;
            b.   Prior obstructions or excavations;
            c.   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city; and/or
            d.   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
         4.   Payment of disputed amounts due the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing; and
         5.   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction performance
bond inadequate under applicable standards.
§ 1400.09 Issuance of Permit; Conditions.
   Subd. 1.   Permit Issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements
of this chapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   Subd. 2.   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
   Subd. 3.   Small Wireless Facility Conditions. In addition to Subd. 2 above,
the erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the collocation
of a small wireless facility, or other installation of a small wireless
facility in the right-of-way, shall be subject to the following conditions:
         1.   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application.
         2.   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-
way shall exceed 50 feet in height without the city’s written authorization,
provided that the city may impose a lower height limit in the applicable permit
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare or to protect the right-of-
way and its current use, and further provided that a registrant may replace an
existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a
structure of the same height subject to such conditions or requirements as may
be imposed in the applicable permit.
         3.   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet above its
wireless support structure.
         4.   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the city may impose separation requirements
between such structure and any existing wireless support structure or other
facilities in and around the right-of-way.
         5.   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign, or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, such equipment shall be consistent with the city’s
aesthetic standards regarding wireless equipment as adopted by the City
Engineer. Such standards shall ensure that wireless equipment is installed with
a stealth design and that equipment does not detract from the character of the
area in which it is installed. In addition, the City Engineer shall adopt
standards that ensure city assets can continue to effectively perform their
intended function. Standards shall be made available with the application
required for a small cell permit.
         6.   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the city may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of such structure.
         7.   A permit will be deemed void if the approved equipment is not
installed within one year of issuance of the permit.
   Subd. 4.   Small Wireless Facility Aesthetic Requirements. The list below is
the standards set by the city for the design of small wireless facilities.
         1.   Each small wireless antenna shall be located entirely within a
shroud or canister type enclosure.
         2.   The diameter of the antenna enclosure at its widest point should
not be wider than two times the diameter of the top of the wireless support
structure. The enclosure shall not exceed six cubic feet in volume.
         3.   All antenna enclosures shall either be mounted to the top of the
wireless support structure pole and aligned with the centerline of the wireless
support structure, noted in the application and approved by the city, but at
least ten feet above ground level at its lowest point.
         4.   Tree “topping” or the improper pruning of trees is prohibited.
Any proposed pruning or removal of trees, shrubs, or other landscaping already
existing in the right-of-way must be noted in the application and must be
approved by the city.
         5.   All cables, wires, and connectors related to the small wireless
facility must be fully concealed on the wireless support structure and shall
match the color of the wireless support structure. There shall be no external
cables and wires related to the small wireless facility hanging off or
otherwise exposed on the wireless support structure.
         6.   All colors shall match the background of any wireless support
structure that the facilities are located upon, including equipment cabinets.
         7.   Equipment enclosures, including electric meters, shall be as
small as possible, but in no event larger than 28 cubic feet in volume. Ground-
mounted equipment shall incorporate concealment elements into the proposed
design matching color and materials of the wireless support structure, unless
other materials or colors are approved by the city. Concealment may include,
but shall not be limited to, landscaping, strategic placement in less obtrusive
locations, and placement within existing or replacement street furniture.
         8.   Radio equipment shall be fully enclosed within an equipment
cabinet or concealed within the antenna shroud enclosure matching the color and
materials of the wireless support structure, unless other materials or colors
are approved by the city.
         9.   Landscaping concealing equipment enclosures shall be planted in
such quantity and size such that 100% screening is achieved within two years of
installation.
         10.   The small wireless facility permittee shall post its name,
location, identifying information, and emergency telephone number in an area on
the cabinet of the small wireless facility that is visible to the public.
Signage required under this section shall not exceed four inches by six inches,
unless otherwise required by law (e.g. radio-frequency (RF) ground notification
signs) or the city. If no cabinet exists, the signage shall be placed at the
base of the pole.
         11.   New small wireless facilities and wireless support structures
shall not be illuminated, except in accord with state or federal regulations,
or unless illumination is integral to the camouflaging strategy, such as design
intended to look like a street light pole.
         12.   The small wireless facility operator/permittee shall remove or
paint over unnecessary equipment manufacturer decals. The color shall match or
shall be as approved by the city. Small wireless facilities and wireless
support structures shall not include advertisements and may only display
information required by a federal, state, or local agency. The small wireless
facility operator/permittee shall utilize the smallest and lowest visibility RF
warning sticker required by government or electric utility regulations.
Placement of the RF sticker shall be as close to the antenna as possible.
         13.   In residential areas, the small wireless facility operator/
permittee shall use a passive cooling system. In the event that a fan is
needed, the small wireless facility operator/permittee shall use a cooling fan
with a low noise profile.
   Subd. 5.   Small Wireless Facility Most Preferable Locations. The following
are the most preferred areas for new small wireless facilities in the order of
preference (item 1 below being most preferable):
         1.   Industrial districts if not adjacent to a park or residential
district;
         2.   Highway rights-of-way areas if not adjacent to a park or
residential district; or
         3.   Business districts if not adjacent to a park or residential
district.
   Subd. 6.   Small Wireless Facility Collocation Preference. It is the city’s
strong preference that, whenever an applicant proposes to place a new small
wireless facility, the applicant collocate the same on existing wireless
support structures.
   Subd. 7.   Small Wireless Facility Consideration of Alternate Locations. The
city reserves the right to propose an alternate location for a wireless support
structure to the location proposed in the application within three hundred feet
of the proposed location or within a distance that is equivalent to the width
of the right-of-way in or on which the wireless support structure is proposed,
whichever is greater, which the operator shall use if it has the right to use
the alternate location on reasonable terms and conditions and the alternate
location does not impose technical limits or additional costs.
   Subd. 8.   Small Wireless Facility Guidelines on Placement. The city desires
to promote cleanly organized and streamlined facilities using the smallest and
least intrusive means available to provide wireless services to the community.
Generally, a small wireless facility and/or wireless support structure shall
match and be consistent with the materials and finish of the wireless support
structure, adjacent city poles, and of the surrounding area adjacent to their
location. In the absence of adjacent city poles, the wireless support structure
shall match the materials and finish of the adjacent utility poles. The
following additional guidelines on placement shall apply.
         1.   Wireless support structures shall be located no closer than 100
feet away, radially, from another wireless support structure.
         2.   A combination wireless support structure and streetlight pole
should only be located where an existing pole can be removed and replaced, or
at a new location where it has been identified that a streetlight is necessary.
         3.   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located in a manner that does not impede, obstruct, or hinder usual public
pedestrian or vehicular travel or public safety on a right-of-way.
         4.   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located in a manner that does not obstruct the legal use of a right-of-way
by a utility provider.
         5.   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located in a manner that does not violate the federal Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
         6.   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located in a manner that does not negatively impact the structural integrity
of the associated wireless support structure.
         7.   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located in alignment with existing trees, utility poles, and streetlights.
         8.   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located equal distance between trees when possible, with a minimum of 15
feet separation such that no proposed disturbance shall occur within the
critical root zone of any tree.
         9.   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located with appropriate clearance from existing utilities.
         10.   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located so as not to be located along the frontage of any building deemed to
be of historic significance on a federal, state, or local level.
         11.   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall
be located not within sight triangles at street intersections.
         12.   New wireless support structures shall not be located directly in
front of any existing residential, commercial, or industrial structure.
         13.   To the greatest extent possible, new wireless support structures
shall be located in line with existing lot lines or an equidistance from any
two existing structures. In areas of the city where multiple structures abut
each other and/or where no side lot setback requirements exist, new wireless
support structures shall not be located directly in front of an entrance or
window of any existing structure.
   Subd. 9.   Small Wireless Facility Agreement.
         1.   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on a small
wireless support structure owned or controlled by the city, or any other city
asset in the right-of-way, after the applicant has executed a standard small
wireless facility collocation agreement with the city. The standard collocation
agreement may require payment of the following:
            a.   Up to $150 per year for rent to collocate on the city
structure;
            b.   Twenty-five dollars per year for maintenance associated with
the collocation;
            c.   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
               i.   Seventy-three dollars per radio node less than or equal to
100 maximum watts;
               ii.   One-hundred eighty-two dollars per radio node over 100
maximum watts; or
               iii.   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual cost
exceeds the foregoing.
         2.   The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and
not in lieu of, the required small wireless facility permit; provided, however,
that the applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or
franchise in order to collocate. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit
does not supersede, alter, or affect any then-existing agreement between the
city and applicant.
§ 1400.10 Action on Small Wireless Facility Permit Applications.
   Subd. 1.   Deadline for Action. The city shall approve or deny a small
wireless facility permit application within 90 days after filing of such
application should the associated support structure be new. The city shall
approve or deny a small wireless facility permit application within 60 days
after filing of such application should the associated support structure be
existing. The small wireless facility permit, and any associated building
permit application, shall be deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within 90 days.
   Subd. 2.   Consolidated Applications.
         1.   An applicant may file a consolidated small wireless facility
permit application addressing the proposed collocation of up to 15 small
wireless facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a local government
unit, provided that all small wireless facilities in the application:
            a.   Are located within a two-mile radius;
            b.   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
            c.   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
         2.   In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the
city may approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may not
use denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless
facilities in the application.
   Subd. 3.   Tolling of Deadline. The 90-day deadline for action on a small
wireless facility permit application may be tolled if:
         1.   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or
information and the city provides written notice of incompleteness to the
applicant within 30 days of receipt the application. Upon submission of
additional documents or information, the city shall have ten days to notify the
applicant in writing of any still-missing information; and/or
         2.   The city and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing
to toll the review period.
§ 1400.11 Permit Fees.
   Subd. 1.   Permit Fee. There shall be established a permit fee in an amount
sufficient to recover the following costs:
         1.   The city management costs;
         2.   Degradation costs, if applicable; and
         3.   City labor and engineering costs.
   Subd. 2.   Small Wireless Facility Permit Fee. The city shall impose a small
wireless facility permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover:
         1.   Management costs; and
         2.   City engineering, make-ready, and construction costs associated
with collocation of small wireless facilities.
   Subd. 3.   Payment of Permit Fees. No permit shall be issued without full
payment of the permit or small wireless facility permit fees.
   Subd. 4.   Non-Refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the
city has revoked for a breach as stated in subsection
1400.21 are not refundable.
   Subd. 5.   Application to Franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a
franchise, management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to
the franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
§ 1400.12 Right-of-Way Patching and Restoration.
   Subd. 1.   Timing. The work to be done under the permit, and the patching
and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be completed
within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days as work
could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the permittee.
   Subd. 2.   Patch and Restoration. Permittee shall patch and restore his or
her own work. The city may choose to restore the right-of-way itself if the
work is not completed in accordance with the deadlines outlined in the permit.
         1.   City Restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way,
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following
such restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee’s improper backfilling,
the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with correcting the defective work.
         2.   Permittee Restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall, at the time of application for an excavation permit, post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
part 7819.3000, as it may be amended from time to time.
   Subd. 3.   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching, and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with Minn. Rules part 7819.1100, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   Subd. 4.   Duty to Correct Defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or his or her agents. The
permittee, upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work
to the extent necessary, using the method required by the city. Said work shall
be completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the
city, not including days during which work cannot be done because of
circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonable or unreasonable.
   Subd. 5.   Failure to Restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-
of-way in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city, at its option, may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
§ 1400.13 Joint Trench Applications.
   Subd. 1.   Joint Application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   Subd. 2.   Shared Fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
excavation, which the city does not perform, may share in the payment of the
permit fee. In order to obtain a joint permit, registrants must agree among
themselves as to the portion each will pay and indicate the same on their
applications.
   Subd. 3.   With City Permits. Registrants who join in a scheduled excavation
performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint application by two or more
registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the permit fee,
but a permit would still be required.
§ 1400.14 Supplementary Applications.
   Subd. 1.   Limitation on Area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the
area of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must, before working in that greater
area:
         1.   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional
fees required thereby; and
         2.   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   Subd. 2.   Limitation on Dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the
dates specified in the permit. No permittee may begin his or her work before
the permit start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the
end date. If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, he or
she must apply for a new permit for the additional time he or she needs, and
receive the new permit or an extension of the old permit before working after
the end date of the previous permit. This supplementary application must be
submitted before the permit end date.
§ 1400.15 Other Obligations.
   Subd. 1.   Compliance with Other Laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does
not relieve permittee of his or her duty to obtain all other necessary permits,
licenses, and authority and to pay all fees required by the city or other
applicable rule, law, or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state, and federal laws, including, but not limited to,
M.S. §§ 216D.01 to 216D.09 (Gopher One-Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn.
Rules Chapter 7560, as they may be amended from time to time. A permittee shall
perform all work in conformance with all applicable codes and established rules
and regulations, and is responsible for all work done in the right-of-way
pursuant to his or her permit, regardless of who does the work.
   Subd. 2.   Prohibited Work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of
the city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   Subd. 3.   Interference with Right-of-Way. A permittee shall not so obstruct
a right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with city parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   Subd. 4.   Trenchless Excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to Horizontal Directional Drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Chapter 216D and Minn. Rules Chapter 7560, as they may be amended from
time to time, and shall require potholing or open cutting over existing
underground utilities before excavating, as determined by the Director.
§ 1400.16 Denial of Permit.
The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and conditions
of this chapter, or if work is not completed on a previous permit issued to the
same applicant, or if the city determines that the denial is necessary to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
§ 1400.17 Installation Requirements.
The excavation, backfilling, patching, and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way, shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
parts 7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163, as they
may be amended from time to time. Installation of service laterals shall be
performed in accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 7560, as it may be amended
from time to time, and these ordinances. Service lateral installation is
further subject to those requirements and conditions set forth by the city in
the applicable permits and/or agreements referenced in subsection
1400.18.
§ 1400.18 Inspection.
   Subd. 1.   Notice of Completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
with Minn. Rules part 7819.1300, as it may be amended from time to time.
   Subd. 2.   Site Inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to
the city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   Subd. 3.   Authority of Director.
         1.   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
         2.   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work
that does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within
the required time, the Director may revoke the permit.
§ 1400.19 Work Done Without a Permit.
   Subd. 1.   Emergency Situations.
         1.   Each registrant shall immediately notify the Director of any
event regarding its facilities that it considers to be an emergency. The
registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the
emergency. Excavators’ notification to Gopher State One-Call regarding an
emergency situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two business days
after the occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply for the
necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the rest of
the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter
for the actions it took in response to the emergency.
         2.   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a
registrant’s facilities, the city will attempt to contact the local
representative of each registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the
emergency. In any event, the city may take whatever action it deems necessary
to respond to the emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant
whose facilities occasioned the emergency.
   Subd. 2.   Non-Emergency Situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way, must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
city code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to
the right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
§ 1400.20 Supplementary Notification.
If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
§ 1400.21 Revocation of Permits.
   Subd. 1.   Substantial Breach. The city reserves its right, as provided
herein, to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule,
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
         1.   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way
permit;
         2.   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the
right-of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or
deceit upon the city or its citizens;
         3.   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
         4.   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee’s control; or
         5.   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued by the city.
   Subd. 2.   Written Notice of Breach. If the city determines that the
permittee has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any
statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the permit, the city
shall make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The
demand shall state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the
permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its
discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate
and remedy the breach.
   Subd. 3.   Response to Notice of Breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. Permittee’s failure to so
contact the city, or permittee’s failure to timely submit an acceptable plan,
or permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee’s failure to
so contact the city, or permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   Subd. 4.   Cause for Probation. From time to time, the city may establish a
list of conditions of the permit, which, if breached, will automatically place
the permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to,
working out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly
outside of the permit authorization.
   Subd. 5.   Automatic Revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits
a breach as outlined above, permittee’s permit will automatically be revoked
and permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   Subd. 6.   Reimbursement of City Costs. If a permit is revoked, the
permittee shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs,
including restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable
attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such revocation.
§ 1400.22 Mapping Data.
   Subd. 1.   Information Required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules parts
7819.4000 and 7819.4100, as they may be amended from time to time. Within 90
days following completion of any work pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall
provide the Director accurate maps and drawings certifying the “as-built”
location of all equipment installed, owned and maintained by the permittee.
Such maps and drawings shall include the horizontal and vertical location of
all facilities and equipment and shall be provided consistent with the city’s
electronic mapping system, when practical or as a condition imposed by the
Director. Failure to provide maps and drawings pursuant to this subsection
shall be grounds for revoking the permit holder’s registration.
   Subd. 2.   Service Laterals.
         1.   All permits issued for the installation or repair of service
laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules part 7560.0150,
subpart 2, as it may be amended from time to time, shall require the
permittee’s use of appropriate means of establishing the horizontal locations
of installed service laterals, and the service lateral vertical locations in
those cases where the Director reasonably requires it. Permittees or their
subcontractors shall submit to the Director evidence satisfactory to the
director of the installed service lateral locations. Compliance with this
subdivision and with applicable Gopher State One-Call law and Minnesota Rules
governing service laterals install after December 31, 2005, shall be a
condition of any city approval necessary for:
            a.   Payment to contractors working on a public improvement project
including those under M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time;
and
b.   City approval of performance under development agreements, or other
subdivision or site plan approval under M.S. Chapter 462, as it may be amended
from time to time.
         2.   The Director shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of
providing such information to the city. Failure to provide prompt and accurate
information on the service lateral installed may result in the revocation of
the permit issued for the work or for future permits to the offending permittee
or its subcontractors.
§ 1400.23 Location and Relocation of Facilities.
   Subd. 1.   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply
with the Act, with other applicable law, and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100,
7819.5000, and 7819.5100, as they may be amended from time to time, to the
extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   Subd. 2.   Corridors.
         1.   The city may assign a specific area within the right-of-way, or
any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facilities
that is, or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will someday be,
located within the right-of-way. All excavation, or other permits issued by the
city involving the installation or replacement of facilities shall designate
the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
         2.   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a
position at variance with the corridors established by the city shall, no later
than at the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the
facilities are located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the city for good cause
shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
facilities, public safety, customer service needs, and hardship to the
registrant.
   Subd. 3.   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this chapter, any
facilities found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be
deemed to be a nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at
law or in equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   Subd. 4.   Limitation of Space. To protect health, safety, and welfare, or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the city shall
have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
facilities within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the city shall
strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users
of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the
public interest, the public’s needs for the particular utility service, the
condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential
utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and
future city plans for public improvements and development projects which have
been determined to be in the public interest.
§ 1400.24 Pre-Excavation Facilities Location.
In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01 to 216.09
(“One-Call Excavation Notice System”), as they may be amended from time to
time, before the start date of any right-of-way excavation, each registrant who
has facilities or equipment in the area to be excavated shall mark the
horizontal and vertical placement of all said facilities. Any registrant whose
facilities are less than 20 inches below a concrete or asphalt surface shall
notify and work closely with the excavation contractor to establish the exact
location of its facilities and the best procedure for excavation.
§ 1400.25 Damage to Other Facilities.
When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to maintain,
support, or move a registrant’s facilities to protect it, the city shall notify
the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. If the registrant
does not maintain support or move the facilities at the city request, and the
city maintains, supports, or moves the facilities, the costs associated
therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid within 30 days
from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its facilities damage.
Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any damage to
the facilities of another registrant caused during the city’s response to an
emergency occasioned by that registrant’s facilities.
§ 1400.26 Right-of-Way Vacation.
If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules part 7819.3200, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 1400.27 Indemnification and Liability.
By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this chapter, a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance
with the provisions of Minn. Rules part 7819.1250, as it may be amended from
time to time.
§ 1400.28 Abandoned and Unusable Facilities.
   Subd. 1.   Discontinued Operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant’s obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by
another registrant.
   Subd. 2.   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any
right-of-way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction
with other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this
requirement is waived by the city.
§ 1400.29 Appeal.
A right-of-way user that: (1) has been denied registration; (2) has been denied
a permit; (3) has had a permit revoked; (4) believes that the fees imposed are
not in conformity with M.S. § 237.163, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time
to time; or (5) disputes a determination of the Director regarding subsection
1400.22, Subd. 2 may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or decision
reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act
on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting, provided
the right-of-way user has submitted its appeal with sufficient time to include
the appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by the City Council affirming
the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in writing and supported by
written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
§ 1400.30 Severability.
If any portion of this chapter is for any reason held invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof. Nothing in this chapter precludes the city from
requiring a franchise agreement with the applicant, as allowed by law, in
addition to requirements set forth herein.
CHAPTER 15: RURAL AND URBAN TAXING DISTRICTS
Section
 
   
1500.01   Taxing Districts Established
   
1500.02   Urban Service District
   
1500.03   Rural Service District Designated
   
1500.04   Benefits Tax Ratio
   
1500.05   Modification of Districts and Benefits Tax Ratio
   
1500.06   Termination of District
1500.RURAL AND URBAN TAXING DISTRICTS
§ 1500.01 Taxing Districts Established.
The city is hereby divided into an Urban Service District and a Rural Service
District pursuant to M.S. § 272.67, as it may be amended from time to time, for
the purpose of all municipal property taxes, except those levied for the
payment of bonds and judgements and interest thereon.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2010; Ord. 2017-17, passed 4-12-2017)
§ 1500.02 Urban Service District.
The Urban Service District shall include all property within the limits of the
city, except those set forth by ordinance as part of the Rural Service
District.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2010; Ord. 2017-17, passed 4-12-2017)
§ 1500.03 Rural Service District Designated.
The rural service district shall include the following unplatted lands,
identified by their legal descriptions, which are not developed for commercial,
industrial, or urban residential purposes, and for these reasons are not
benefitted to the same degree as other lands by municipal services financed by
general taxation:
         1.   The South Half of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter
of Section 14, Township 33, Range 28, Sherburne County, Minnesota;
         2.   That part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of
Section 23, said Township 33, Range 28, lying Northeasterly of the following
described line: Commencing at the North Quarter corner of said Section 23,
thence South 00 degrees 16 minutes 20 seconds East (assumed bearing) along the
West line of said Northwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter a distances of
915.65 feet to the point of beginning of the line to be described; thence
771.75 feet along a non-tangential curve concave to the southwest, having a
radius of 2736.00 feet, a central angle of 16 degrees 09 minutes 42 seconds,
and a chord bearing of South 57 degrees 42 minutes 02 seconds East to the South
line of said Northwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter and there terminating;
         3.   The East Half of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter
of the Northwest Quarter of Section 26, Township 33, Range 27, Sherburne
County, Minnesota;
         4.   The West Half of the West Half of the Northwest Quarter of
Section 26, Township 33, Range 27, Sherburne County, Minnesota, lying north of
the railroad, EXCEPT the East Half of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest
Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 26;
         5.   That part of the East Half of the Northwest Quarter of Section
26, Township 33, Range 27, Sherburne County, Minnesota, described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the North-South quarter section line in said
Section 26 and the north railroad right of way line; thence north along said
North-South quarter section line, distant 550.00 feet, more or less, to the
centerline of driveway as now laid out and traveled; thence west, parallel with
the north line of Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of said Section
26, distant 660.00 feet; thence south, parallel with said North-South quarter
section line, to an intersection with the northerly railroad right of way line;
thence southeasterly along said northerly railroad right of way line to the
point of beginning;
         6.   The Northwest Quarter of Section 26, Township 33, Range 27,
Sherburne County, Minnesota, lying north of the railroad right-of-way, except
therefrom the following described tracts:
            a.   The North 210 feet of the East 250 feet of the Northeast
Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 26, Township 33, Range 27,
Sherburne County, Minnesota;
            b.   The West Half of the West Half of the Northwest Quarter of
Section 26, Township 33, Range 27, Sherburne County, Minnesota, lying north of
the railroad; and
            c.   That part of the East Half of the Northwest Quarter of Section
26, Township 33, Range 27, Sherburne County, Minnesota, described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the North-South quarter section line in said
Section 26 and the north railroad right-of-way line; thence north along said
North-South quarter section line, distant 550.00 feet, more or less, to the
centerline of driveway as now laid out and traveled; thence west, parallel with
the north line of Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of said Section
26, distant 660.00 feet; thence south, parallel with said North-South quarter
section line, to an intersection with the northerly railroad right of way line;
thence southeasterly along said northerly railroad right of way line to the
point of beginning.
         7.   The North Half of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter
of Section 14, Township 33, Range 28, Sherburne County, Minnesota; and the
Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 14; Subject to
County Road easement at the Northeast corner of the subject property. Subject
to any other easements of record. Contains 59.82 acres, more or less.
         8.   The Northeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 14,
Township 33, Range 28, Sherburne County, Minnesota, lying Easterly of the West
665.75 feet of said Northeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 14,
as measured at right angles to the West line thereof; and The Southeast Quarter
of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 14, lying Easterly of the West 665.75
feet of said Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 14, as
measured at right angles to the West line thereof. Subject to any easements of
record. Contains 39.15 acres, more or less.
         9.   That part of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of
Section 23, Township 33, Range 28, Sherburne County Minnesota, lying
Northeasterly of the following described line:
            a.   Commencing at the North Quarter corner of said Section 23;
thence South 00 degrees 16 minutes 20 seconds East (assumed bearing) along the
East line of said Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter a distance of
915.65 feet to the point of beginning of the line to be described; thence
462.59 feet along a non-tangential curve concave to the southwest, having a
radius of 2736.00 feet, a central angle of 09 degrees 41 minutes 14 seconds,
and a chord bearing of North 70 degrees 37 minutes 29 seconds West; thence
North 75 degrees 28 minutes 05 seconds West, tangent to the last described
curve, a distance of 910.60 feet to the West line of said Northeast Quarter of
the Northwest Quarter and said line there terminating; and
            b.   Subject to any easements of record. Contains 21.74 acres, more
or less.
         10.   The Northeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (NE 1/4 of SW 1/
4), Section 20, Township 33, Range 27, except the following described parcels.
            a.   i.   Beginning at the Southeast corner of the Northeast
Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (NE 1/4 of SW 1/4), Section 20, Township 33,
Range 27; thence West on the South line of said Northeast Quarter of the
Southwest Quarter (NE 1/4 of SW 1/4) 28.00 rods; thence North 28 rods and 9
feet; thence East 28.00 rods; thence South 28 rods and 9 feet to place of
beginning;
               ii.   That part of the South 548.50 feet, as measured at right
angles, of the Northeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (NE 1/4 of SW 1/4)
Section 20, Township 33, Range 27, Sherburne County, Minnesota, lying West of
the West line of the East 462.00 feet (28 rods), as measured at right angles,
thereof. Subject to that part thereof taken for right-of-way of U.S. Highways
No. 10 and 52. Also subject to that part taken for County Road No. 43; and
               iii.   Any portion thereof taken by MNDOT Right-of-Way Plat No.
71-20 and Sherburne County Highway Right-of-Way Plat No. 21.
            b.   The Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (SE 1/4 of NW
1/4), Section 20, Township 33, Range 27, except the following described
parcels.
               i.   The North 100.00 feet of the Southeast Quarter of the
Northwest Quarter (SE 1/4 of NW 1/4), Section 20, Township 33, Range 27,
Sherburne County, Minnesota, lying East of the West 606.66 feet of said
Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (SE 1/4 of NW 1/4);
               ii.   The North 376.00 feet of the West 606.66 feet of the
Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (SE 1/4 of NW 1/4), Section 20,
Township 33, Range 27;
               iii.   That part of the West 447.11 feet of the Southeast
Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (SE 1/4 of NW 1/4). Section 20, Township 33,
Range 27, Sherburne County, Minnesota, lying North of the South 456.00 feet of
said Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (SE 1/4 of NW 1/4) and lying
South of a line described as follows: Beginning at a point on the West line of
said Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (SE 1/4 of NW 1/4), a distance
of 231.50 feet North of the Northwest corner of said South 456.00 feet of said
Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (SE 1/4 of NW 1/4); thence East
along a line passing through a point on the East line of the West 660.00 feet
of said Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (SE 1/4 of NW 1/4), distant
205.21 feet North from the Northeast corner of said West 660.00 feet of the
South 456.00 feet of the Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter and there
terminating; and
               iv.   That part of the North 376.00 feet of the Southeast
Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (SE 1/4 of NW 1/4), Section 20, Township 33,
Range 27, Sherburne County, Minnesota, which lies East of the East line of the
West 606.66 feet of said Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (SE 1/4 of
NW 1/4), and South of the South line of Triple Oaks Second Addition, according
to the recorded plat thereof, Sherburne County, Minnesota.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2010; Ord. 2017-17, passed 4-12-2017)
§ 1500.04 Benefits Tax Ratio.
The city determines the ratio between the benefits resulting from tax-supported
municipal services to parcels of land of like market value, situated in the
rural service district and in the urban service district, respectively, is two
and one-half to 100.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2010; Ord. 2017-17, passed 4-12-2017)
§ 1500.05 Modification of Districts and Benefits Tax Ratio.
By amendment of this chapter, land may be added to or removed from the rural
service district and the benefits tax ratio may be changed.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2010; Ord. 2017-17, passed 4-12-2017)
§ 1500.06 Termination of District.
Whenever any parcel of land, owned by one person or by two or more persons
jointly or in common at the time of its inclusion in the rural service district
is platted, in whole or in part, and whenever application is made for a permit
for the construction of a commercial, industrial, or residential development or
improvement to be situated on such parcel or any part thereof, the commission
or officer approving such plat or building permit shall report this to the City
Council, which shall make and enter an order transferring such parcel from the
rural service district to the urban service district.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2010; Ord. 2017-17, passed 4-12-2017)
APPENDIX A: FEE SCHEDULE
APPENDIX A: FEE SCHEDULE
Code Description Amount
Code           Description                                         Amount
   General Fees
Administrative citations - if not paid will be submitted to collections
            1st offense                                         $75
140.07
              2nd offense within 12 months of most recent similar $150
               offense
              3rd offense within 12 months of most recent similar $300
               offense
                                                                   Will be
                                                                   charged up
               4th offense and beyond within 12 months of most     to the
              recent similar offense                              maximum
                                                                   allowed by
                                                                   state
                                                                   statute
Adult use                                                          
380
              Principal - per year                                $1,000
              Accessory - per year                                $2,000
Alcohol
beverage       Lake liquors - 2-hour limit per hour fee            $75
tasting event
fee
Animal                                                             
licensing/fees
              Pet pig license - biennial (every 2 years)          $10
            Dangerous dog registration - every year             $300
391.01
              Potentially dangerous dog registration - every year $150
              Animal impound fee                                  $50
              Hearing fee for potentially dangerous or dangerous  $250
               dog
Antenna site                                                       
application
              Lease application for antennas on city’s          $850
               infrastructure
              Escrow will be determined by consultant to proceed   
               with the review of plans
               All plans will reference a site lease agreement
              which will determine the monthly league payment due  
               from the lessee
Assessments                                                        
              Searches/utility billing history search - per tax   $25
               parcel
              Delinquent account certification fees - per tax     $20
               parcel
              Delinquent account certification interest - per tax 6%
               parcel
              Snow removal violation plus contractor invoice -    $100
               per property - 2nd offense
              Snow removal violation plus contractor invoice -    $150
               per property - 3rd offense
              Administrative fee for developer- requested Chapter 1% of bond
               429 improvement bonding projects - bond amount      total
              Special assessments 429 interest terms based on     1.5% above
               policy - interest is based on bond rate             bond rate
Big Lake Fire
Department -
maintenance
billing,
includes
snowplowing,                                                       
streets and
equipment
repairs, signs
and striping,
sweeping, and
the like
              Operator fee rate - per hour                        $42.78
                                                                   Actual cost
              Materials used - salt/sand/asphalt/parts            of product
                                                                   used
Big Lake
Township -
maintenance
billing,
includes
snowplowing,                                                       
street
repairs, signs
and striping,
sweeping, and
the like
              Operator fee rate - per hour                        $42.78
                                                                   Actual cost
              Materials used - salt/sand/asphalt                  of product
                                                                   used
Citations -
theft and/or
property
damage - if                                                        
not paid will
be submitted
to collections
140.07
              1st offense                                         $125
              2nd offense within 12 months of most recent similar $250
               offense
              3rd offense within 12 months of most recent similar $375
               offense
Collection     Recovery service fee                                $20
Compost site -
Municipal                                                          
Recycling
Board (MRB)
              County residential user one per family              No fee
              Electronic key card replacement fee                 $10
              Non-county residents will no longer be able to      Not allowed
               utilize county sites
Dock license   Per year                                            $350
560.03 
Document
services -                                                         
(includes
sales tax)
              Bound Big Lake City Code book                       $50
              Comprehensive Plan                                  $50
              Copies - letter size (8.5" x 11") per sheet         $0.25
              Copies - large construction plan (24" x 36") black  $6
               and white per sheet
              Copies - large construction plan (24" x 36") color  $10
               per sheet
              Copies - large construction plan (24" x 36") Scan   $6
               to PDF
              Downtown design standards                           $5
              Map - plat 11" x 14"                                $1
              Park plan                                           $15
Events permits                                                     
              Temporary use (non-profit or community events,      $25
               within city limits waived)
               In addition to the fee for the permit review,
              additional cost for police, clean up, deposit, or    
               incidental expenses may be charged
            Parking fees at Lakeside Park may be waived for
570.13         events benefitting non-profits, community events,    
               and for city businesses events open to the public
False alarm
fee - alarm
system -
Police
Department -                                                     
at the          
discretion of
the Police
Chief
325
              1st violation within calendar year                  Waived
              2nd violation within calendar year                  Waived
              3rd violation within calendar year                  Waived
              4th violation within calendar year                  $50
              5th violation within calendar year                  $100
              Further violations within calendar year             $200
Farmers Market                                                     
              Application fee - for full summer season            $140
              Application fee - for full winter season            $60
              Application fee - business/organization -           $50
               fundraising for nonprofit - per year
              Application fee - per week                          $10
              Bags - per bag (includes sales tax)                 $2
              Application fee refunded                            $5
Fire box       Purchased                                           $165
Fire
inspection
placeholder if                                                     
service is
approved
              Business fire inspections - per business            $50
              Single-family rental fire inspections - per home    $65
Fireworks      Fireworks permit application fee                    $25
396
Franchise fee                                                      
- utilities
              Residential - per account per month                 $4
              Commercial - per account per month                  $8
Food unit
vendors -                                                          
mobile
              1 to 4 day permit (days do not need to be           $50
               concurrent)
              5 to 10 day permit (days do not need to be          $100
               concurrent)
Gambling       Investigation fee - lawful gambling application     $100
370.05
Garden plot    Fee - per year                                      $30
Hunting
permits        Hunting on privately-owned property permit          Waived
530.01.4
Hydrant flush
maintenance -
owner is
responsible    Privately-owned hydrants - yearly fee per hydrant   $35
for all
repairs to
hydrant
Junked autos   Special use permit - junked autos - 6 months        $75
340.02
              One time 3-month extension                          $125
Lakeside park
vendor permit                                                      
- May to
October
              Combined seasonal Lakeside Park vendor permit/      $300
               annual mobile food unit permit
              Seasonal Lakeside Park vendor permit                $200
              Maximum number of vendors at a time will be 2        
              Preference will be given to business in the City of  
               Big Lake, Big Lake Township and Orrock Township
              Fee can be administratively waived for city-         
               sponsored events
Lake Mitchell
launch access
keys - for                                                         
city residents
only
              Per key                                             $20
              Replacement key                                     $20
Late fee       For non-utility billing - per month                 1.50%
Liquor                                                             
licenses
            Per year                                            $4,000
400.04
              Wine license - per year                             $500
              Sunday license - per year                           $200
              Brewpub license - per year                          $500
              Brewpub off-sale license - per year                 $100
              Permanent expansion of premises - per expansion of  $100
               license premises
              Temporary license - per event                       $25
              Temporary license - per event - club or non-profit  Waived
               license requests
              Temporary outdoor on-sale event                     $25
            3.2% malt liquor - per year                         $75
420.01
              Taproom license - per year                          $500
              Small brewer off-sale license - per year            $100
Liquor
licenses
investigation                                                      
fee - new
liquor license
application
            Liquor license                                      $1,000
400.04
              Brewpub, taproom, small brewer license              $500
              Wine license                                        $500
            3.2% malt liquor                                    $100
420.05
Mail box
installation -                                                    No fee
permit must be
filled out
              All mailbox locations and designs are subject to     
               the city and postmaster approval
Massage
license                                                            
395
              Massage enterprise license - new                    $200
              Massage therapist license - new                     $75
              Combination massage enterprise and massage          $275
               therapist license - new
              Massage enterprise license - renewal                $75
              Massage therapist license - renewal                 $25
              Combination massage enterprise and massage          $100
               therapist license - renewal
              Massage enterprise and therapist investigation      $100
               background check fee (per person)
Park shelter   Rental fee - per day -non refundable                $30
Parking fines
- if not paid
in 30 days
will be                                                            
submitted to
collections
620.12
              Improper parking                                    $25
              Improper parking - original ticket not paid within  $50
               14 days
              Prohibited parking                                  $25
              Prohibited parking - original ticket not paid       $50
               within 14 days
              Fire lane parking                                   $25
              Fire lane parking - original ticket not paid within $50
               14 days
              Snow removal parking                                $50
              Snow removal parking - original ticket not paid     $100
               within 14 days
              Fire hydrant parking                                $50
              Fire hydrant parking - original ticket not paid     $100
               within 14 days
              No parking (12:01 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. 11/01 to 4/15)  $50
              No parking (12:01 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. 11/01 to 4/15)  $100
               - original ticket not paid within 14 days
              Handicapped parking                                 $200
              Handicapped parking - original ticket not paid      $400
               within 14 days
Parking passes
- includes                                                         
sales tax
              Seasonal resident - vehicle only - May through      $10
               October (zip code is 55309)
              Seasonal resident - vehicle and trailer - May       $20
               through October (zip code is 55309)
                 Resident - Mitchell Boat Launch - pass with ke$20
                 Resident - Mitchell Boat Launch - replacement $20
               key
              Seasonal non-resident - vehicle only - May through  $30
               October
              Seasonal non-resident - vehicle and trailer - May   $60
               through October
                 Farmers Market - Wednesdays - May through     Waived
               September
                 Music in the Park - Thursdays - June through  Waived
               August
              Daily pass vehicle only - May through October       $5
              Vehicle and trailer May through October             $20
               Parking fees at Lakeside Park may be waived for
            events benefitting non-profits, community events     
570.13         and for Big Lake businesses events open to the
               public
Peddler/
transient
merchant                                                           
permits
320.03 
              Peddler/transient merchant application              $25
              Peddler/transient merchant permits - per day/per    $10
               person
              (No fee is required for solicitor registrations)     
              “No soliciting” window clings - includes sales t$3
Police
Department                                                         
fees
              Police reports/copies (includes sales tax) - non-   $0.25
               subject of police data up to 100 pages - per page
              Police reports/copies (includes sales tax) - non-   Actual cost
               subject of police data 101 pages or more
              Police reports/copies - data requested by crime     Waived
               victim/subject of data
              Police squad - per hour                             $35
              Fingerprinting (free for adoptions)                 $25
              Photo CD (includes sales tax) - per copy            $15
              Electronic case file data (includes sales tax) -    $35
               per copy
              Impound release fee                                 $50
Police lift
assist -
Police
Department -                                                       
at the
discretion of
the Police
Chief
              1st call                                            Waived
              2nd call                                            $250
              3rd and beyond call                                 $500
Police yard
signs for sale NO LONGER AVAILABLE                                 $10
- includes
sales tax
Property
violations -                                                       
also see
assessments
              Snow removal violations plus contractor invoice -   $163
               per property
              Weed/grass violation plus contractor invoice - per  $196
               property
Revolving loan Application fee - EDA                               1% of loan
Rental housing                                                     
registration
            Single-family units - yearly                        $25
915.01
              Duplex units - yearly                               $25
            Multi-family building containing 3 dwelling units - $320
910.07         yearly inspections
              Multi-family dwelling units additional charge/ unit $13
               after original 3 units
                                                                   Staff
              Re-inspection fee - see staff billing rates         billing
                                                                   rates
Return check   Fee                                                 $30
Right-of-way                                                       
1400.1
              Permit fee                                          $150
              Permit escrow                                       $3,000
Room rentals                                                       
              Meeting room use - (on a case by case basis)        Actual cost
              Big Lake Community Room (790 Minnesota Ave.) for-   $50
               profit community businesses - per hour
              Big Lake Community Room (790 Minnesota Ave.) non-   $75
               community groups - per hour
              Big Lake Community Room (790 Minnesota Ave.) Big    Waived
               Lake non-profit groups - per hour
Signs                                                              
1300
              Permanent sign permit - including wall mount and    $100
               pylon (could include multi-signs) - each permit
              Temporary sign permit - days allowed based on code  $50
               - (plus escrow listed below) - each permit
              One fee waiver allowed for all city non-profit       
               events
              Temporary sign fee - escrow                         $100
              Sign code violation - per offense                   $50
Small wireless
facility                                                           
permit
            Permit on new pole                                  $1,000
1400.11
              First five in a batched application on existing     $500
               pole
              Beyond the first five, per permit                   $100
Snow removal
violation                                                          
500
              Plus contractor invoice - per property - 1st        $50
               offense
              Plus contractor invoice - per property - 2nd        $100
               offense
              Plus contractor invoice - per property - 3rd        $150
               offense
Special
vehicle permit Special vehicle permit                              –
- place holder
Staff/
equipment
billing rates
(staff time                                                        
includes
hourly fringe
plus overhead
cost)
              Accounting clerk                                    $55
              Building and inspections                            $75
              City Administrator                                  $120
              City Clerk                                          $65
              Clerical/support                                    $55
              Community Development Director                      $105
              Finance Director                                    $105
              City Engineer                                       $115
              City Planner                                        $65
              Consultant Planner                                  $75
              Liquor store manager                                $75
   Police Department staff - per hour
              Police Investigator                                 $120
              Police Captain                                      $160
              Police officer                                      $110
              Police Sergeant                                     $120
              Police Chief                                        $190
   Public Work Staff - per hour
              Maintenance                                         $80
              Fleet mechanic                                      $90
              Foreman                                             $105
              Director/Superintendent                             $110
   Equipment charge - per hour
              Air compressor                                      $36
              Bucket truck - NEW 2017                             $120.50
              Chain saw                                           $29.50
              Dump truck                                          $64.50
              Holder - NEW 2017                                   $65
              Hydrant meter - per month                           $50
              Jet rodder                                          $45.50
              Jet/vac                                             $211
              Lawn mower                                          $36
              Loader                                              $120.50
              Patrol vehicle                                      $25
              Pickup truck                                        $36
              Sign rental                                         $4.50
              Skid steer                                          $65
              Small tools miscellaneous                           $7
              Street sweeper                                      $42
              Tandem dump truck                                   $120.50
              Tapping machine                                     $66
              Tapping machine rap                                 $28
              Tractor                                             $65
              Trailer                                             $45.50
              Up-armor vehicle                                    $120
              UAV/robot                                           $25
              Weed whip                                           $29
Street
excavation                                                         
710.01
              Permit fee                                          $223
              Permit escrow - as determined by City Engineer       
Street light                                                       
830
              Utility system fee residential unit - per month     $3
              Utility system fee non-residential unit - per front $0.042
               footage/month
Tobacco
license        Per calendar year                                   $100
350.03
THC -
cannabinoid    Licenses - place holder                             TBD
product
retailers
Trash hauler   License - per calendar year                         $150
335.02
Traveling
shows          Permit                                              $25
310.01
Temporary      Tent permit - approved by Fire Department - (could  $25
structure      be multi-tents) each permit
Water tower                                                        Per
lease fee                                                         individual
                                                                   contract
Weed/grass
violation      Plus contractor invoice and sales tax- per property $196
510
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BUILDING FEES
            Building permit fee schedule - based on valuation   See schedule
900.03                                                             below
                 Total Valuation                                  Fee
              $1 to $1,100                                        $50
                                                                   $28 for 1st
                                                                   500, plus
                                                                   $3.70 for
                                                                   each
                                                                   additional
              $1,101 to $2,000                                    100, or
                                                                   fraction
                                                                   thereof, to
                                                                   and
                                                                   including
                                                                   2,000
                                                                   $83.50 for
                                                                   1st 2,000,
                                                                   plus $16.55
                                                                   for each
                                                                   additional
              $2,001 to $25,000                                   1,000, or
                                                                   fraction
                                                                   thereof, to
                                                                   and
                                                                   including
                                                                   50,000
                                                                   $464.15 for
                                                                   1st 25,000,
                                                                   plus $12 for
                                                                   each
                                                                   additional
              $25,001 to $50,000                                  1,000 or
                                                                   fraction
                                                                   thereof, to
                                                                   and
                                                                   including
                                                                   100,000
                                                                   $764.15 for
                                                                   1st 50,000,
                                                                   plus $8.45
                                                                   for each
                                                                   additional
              $50,001 to $100,000                                 1,000, or
                                                                   fraction
                                                                   thereof, to
                                                                   and
                                                                   including
                                                                   100,000
                                                                   $1,186.65
                                                                   for 1st
                                                                   100,000,
                                                                   plus $6.75
                                                                   for each
              $100,001 to $500,000                                additional
                                                                   1,000, or
                                                                   fraction
                                                                   thereof, to
                                                                   and
                                                                   including
                                                                   500,000
                                                                   $3,886.65
                                                                   for 1st
                                                                   500,000,
                                                                   plus $5.50
                                                                   for each
              $500,001 to $1,000,000                              additional
                                                                   1,000, or
                                                                   fraction
                                                                   thereof, to
                                                                   and
                                                                   including
                                                                   1,000,000
                                                                   $6,636.65
                                                                   for 1st
                                                                   1,000,000,
                                                                   plus $4.50
              $1,000,000 and up                                   for each
                                                                   additional
                                                                   1,000, or
                                                                   fraction
                                                                   thereof
Administrative Permit refund                                       $25
fee
Basement                                                          $150
refinish
Plan review                                                       65% of
                                                                   permit fee
Duplicate plan Upon review                                         25% of
                                                                   permit fee
              Accessory structure                                 65% of
                                                                   permit fee
              Revisions - per hour                                $50
Air                                                               $50
conditioner
Deck permit    Residential                                         $150
Demo                                                              $100
Minnesota      Expired permit - continue work and inspections of   $75
Building Code  project - investigation fee of original project
10000.0120.    Expired permit - continue work and inspections of   50% of
Subp           project - new permit for original project           original
                                                                   permit fee
Fence permit   < 7' (zoning)                                       $55
               >7' - see valuation table listed above with         See 900.03
              building permit fees                                building
                                                                   fees
Fireplace                                                         $100
Fire                                                              2% of job
suppression                                                        value
Fire                                                               65% of
suppression                                                       permit fee
plan review
Furnace                                                           $50
replacement
After hours/
weekend
inspection                                                        $63.25
minimum 2
hours - per
hour
Investigation                                                      Up to 100%
fee                                                               of permit
                                                                   fee
Land
alteration
permit (i.e.   Fee                                                 $50
landscape,
grading)
                                                                   As
              Escrow                                              determined
                                                                   by Engineer
Lawn           Residential permit                                  $50
irrigation
              Commercial permit                                   $100
Mechanical     New residential                                     $150
              Remodel, addition                                   $100
              New commercial                                      Use building
                                                                   fee schedule
              Remodel, addition - commercial                      Use building
                                                                   fee schedule
Mechanical                                                         50% of
plan review                                                       permit fee
fee
Moving                                                            $100
structure
              Site inspection                                     $50
At the         Partial certificate of occupancy (PCO) commercial
Building       escrow (refunded if completed by 30 days)           $1,500
Official
              Partial certificate of occupancy (PCO) residential  $1,500
               escrow (refunded if completed by 30 days)
Permit card    Copy replacement                                    $5
Plumbing       New homes                                           $200
residential
              Remodel, addition                                   $100
Plumbing       New                                                 Use building
commercial                                                         fee schedule
              Remodel, addition                                   Use building
                                                                   fee schedule
Re-inspection                                                     $75
fee
Roofing        Residential                                         $100
                                                                   See
                                                                   valuation
                                                                   table listed
                                                                   above with
              Commercial                                          building
                                                                   permit fees
                                                                   see 900.03
                                                                   building
                                                                   fees
Seed/sod fee   Plus escrow listed below                            $140
              Escrow                                              $1,860
Siding         Residential - includes replacement of water meter   $180
               device on siding
Swimming pools In ground                                           $150
              Swimming pools / hot tubs                           $55
Water softer                                                      $50
Water heater                                                      $50
replacement
Window         Residential                                         $100
replacement
Fee refunds - refund requests must be submitted in writing by permit applicant
before any work has started. The applicant shall be responsible for 100% of
plan review fee; all other fees may be refunded.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FEES
Revolving loan
application                                                       1% of loan
fee - EDA
Tax abatement  Plus escrow listed below                            $500
districts
              Escrow                                              $10,000
Tax Increment
Financing      Plus escrow listed below                            $500
(TIF)
Districts
              Escrow                                              $10,000
Water access
charge (WAC)
and sewer
access charge                                                     $500
(SAC) - 429
assessment
agreement
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LAND USE FEES (PLANNING, ZONING, SUBDIVISION)
In addition to the fees listed, the City Engineer, City Attorney, Planning
Consultant, or other consultant fees will be charged on an actual cost basis
and will be pass through to developer's escrow account
Amendments -
ordinance,
map,           Plus escrow listed below                            $500
Comprehensive
Plan
              Escrow                                              $1,000
Administrative Permit refund                                       $25
fee
Appeals                                                           $600
Annexations    Residential                                         $1,000
Annexations -  Commercial/industrial                               Waived
Annexation     Escrows - residential and commercial/industrial     $500
Concept plan   Plus escrow listed below                            $250
              Escrow                                              $1,000
Conditional
use permit     Plus escrow listed below                            $500
(CUP)
              Escrow                                              $1,000
Conditional
use extension  First time for an additional year                   $100
fee
              Second renewal approved by Council                  $400
Environmental
review - EAW/  Plus escrow listed below                            $500
AUAR/EIS
              Escrow                                              $5,000
Home
occupation                                                        $55
permit
Interim use    Plus escrow listed below                            $500
permit
              Escrow                                              $1,000
Investigation                                                     $55
fee
Map upgrade                                                        See
fee for new    Per lot as determined in the development agreement  agreement
developments
                                                                   10% of land
                                                                   value or
Park and trail Residential - $2,500/unit - (city values a unit at  land
dedication     $25,000)                                            ($2,500/unit
                                                                   for cash in-
                                                                   lieu of)
Per state statue, this meets the requirement of Subd 2C, Nexus; which indicates
that the fee must bear a rough proportionality to the need created by the
proposed subdivision or development
                                                                   4% of land
              Commercial or industrial                            value or
                                                                   land
*All new subdivisions must satisfy park dedication requirements (land and/or
cash) as determined by the City Council
Planned unit
development
(PUD) -        Plus escrow listed below                            $750
development
stage and
final plan
              Escrow                                              $3,000
Plat -final    Plus escrow listed below                            $300
              Escrow                                              $3,000
Plat -         Plus escrow listed below                            $300
preliminary
              Escrow                                              $5,000
Recording fee  Includes administration cost                        $66
Rezoning                                                          $500
Site plan      Plus escrow listed below                            $300
review
              Escrow                                              $2,000
Special
Planning                                                          $350
Commission
meeting
**Requested by developer and not one of regular scheduled meeting - fee covers
cost of expense for extra meeting
Subdivisions                                                      $300
administrative
              Escrow                                              $1,000
Subdivisions   Plus escrow listed below                            $500
simple
              Escrow                                              $3,000
Temporary use  Non-profit or community events - within city limits $25
permits        - waived
Temporary      Approved by Fire Department - (could be multi
structure      tents) each permit                                  $25
(tent) permit
Vacations      Plus escrow listed below                            $500
              Escrow                                              $1,000
Variances      Residential/commercial/industrial - (plus escrow    $350
               listed below)
              Residential - escrow                                $1,000
              Commercial/industrial - escrow                      $1,000
Wetland        Application pus escrow listed below plus actual     $500
               cost
              Escrow                                              $350
Zoning letter  Formal letter attesting to the land use regulations $55
               for a specific site
Zoning permit
- i.e.,
chicken coops,
bee hives,
parking pad,                                                      $55
accessory
structures
less than 200
sq. ft
WATER/SEWER/STORM SEWER FEES
   Water Rates - Residential
            0 - 6,500 gallons monthly usage - per 1,000 gallons $4.30
800.21 
              Over 6,500 gallons monthly usage - per 1,000        $5.36
               gallons
              Monthly fixed fee                                   $6.81
   Water Rates - Multi-Family
              0 - 88,600 gallons monthly usage - per 1,000        $4.30
               gallons
              Over 88,600 gallons monthly usage - per 1,000       $5.36
               gallons
              Monthly fixed fee - if less than 2" otherwise see   $15.63
               charge under commercial based on meter size
   Water Rates - Municipal
              All gallons monthly usage - per 1,000 gallons       $11.40
              Monthly fixed fee                                   $19.65
   Water Rates - Irrigation
              0 - 88,600 gallons monthly usage - per 1,000        $4.30
               gallons
              Over 88,600 gallons monthly usage - per 1,000       $5.36
               gallons
              Monthly fixed fee                                   $15.63
   Water Rates - Commercial
            0 - 51,000 gallons monthly usage - per 1,000        $2.65
800.21         gallons - plus sales tax
              Over 51,000 gallons monthly usage - per 1,000       $2.91
               gallons - plus sales tax
              Monthly fixed fee - based on meter size - see chart  
               below all rates per month fee:
                 5/8" - 1"                                     $6.81
                 1-1/2 "                                       $9.72
                 2"                                            $15.63
                 3"                                            $59.32
                 4"                                            $75.50
                 6"                                            $113.24
                 8"                                            $156.38
   Water Rates - Industrial (per Contract)
            0 - 51,000 gallons monthly usage - per 1,000        $4.10
800.21         gallons - plus sales tax
              Over 51,000 gallons monthly usage - per 1,000       $4.56
               gallons - plus sales tax
              Monthly fixed fee                                   $416.55
   Water Service Fees
Water access   Anticipated daily use of water less than 25,000     $3,585
charges (WAC)  gallons - per unit
Units will be determined by Building Official and/or Engineer, based on Met
Council formula. Credit will be given for prior WAC paid for property WAC total
charge is calculated utilizing the same unit charge per multiplier as per the
Metropolitan Council Environmental Services (MCES) sewer availability charge
(SAC) procedure manual.
              For multi-tenant buildings greater than 4 units -   $2,200
               per unit
Units will be determined by Building Official and/or Engineer, based on Met
Council Formula. Credit will be given for prior WAC paid for property WAC total
charge is calculated utilizing the same unit charge per multiplier as per the
Metropolitan Council Environmental Services (MCES) sewer availability charge
(SAC) procedure manual.
              Anticipated daily use of water greater than 25,000   
               gallons - per unit determined by City Engineer
Water          Parcels that have city water available but are not
availability   connected - fee per year                            $75
charge
Water          New hook-up                                         $75
Inspections
              Repair                                              $35
Water late                                                         10% or $5,
charges        Per monthly billing                                 whichever is
                                                                   greater
OPT - out for automatic meter reading - per month fee to have meter read by
staff - fee to be determined once project is completed
**Old meters will still be replaced with new meters during the 2024 meter
replacement project
Water meters   Residential                                         $469
              Commercial - can fluctuate depending on model and    
               brand - based on size
                 1" meter                                      $350 to $400
                 1-1/2" meter                                  $1,000
                 2" meter                                      $1,500
                 3" meter                                      $2000 to
                                                                   $3000
                 4" meter                                      $3000 to
                                                                   $9000
              Certificate of occupancy inspection                 $40
              Siding inspection                                   $40
              Rental billing - yearly                             $40
              Rental - water consumption use - billed at current  $4.30
               residential rate per 1,000 gallons
Water shut off At owner’s request                                $30
charge
              Delinquency - 2 employees always sent for safety    $60
               reasons
Water turn on  At owner’s request                                $30
charge
              Delinquency - 2 employees always sent for safety    $60
               reasons
Water test fee State of Minnesota - per month - new amount per     $0.81
               state
Water trunk    Per acre                                            $1,650
area fee
Water use      1st violation within calendar year                  Waived
restrictions
              2nd violation within calendar year                  $25
              3rd violation within calendar year                  $50
              4th violation within calendar year                  $100
              5th violation within calendar year                  $250
Utility        Change of ownership/service processing              $30
              Meter reading (owner requested)                     $30
              Credit for opting out of paper bills - per month    ($0.50)
   Sewer Rates - Residential
            Per 1,000 gallons of monthly water usage-summer
810.17         months bills are based on average of November -     $9.17
               April water bills
              Monthly fixed fee                                   $11.55
   Sewer Rates - Multi-Family
            Per 1,000 gallons of monthly water usage-summer
810.17         months bills are based on Average of November -     $9.17
               April water bills
              Monthly fixed fee                                   $11.55
   Sewer Rates - Municipal
            Per 1,000 gallons of monthly water usage - summary
810.17         months based on November - April average usage of   $11.63
               water
              Monthly fixed fee                                   $16.66
   Sewer Rates - Commercial
            Per 1,000 gallons of monthly water usage-summer
810.17         months bills are based on Average of November -     $9.17
               April water bills
              Monthly fixed fee                                   $18.28
   Sewer Rates - Industrial
            Per 1,000 gallons of monthly water usage based on   $13.71
810.17        actual water usage
              Monthly fixed fee                                   $28.72
   Sewer Rates - Significant Industrial User (SIU) Charge Without Treatment
Agreement
              Per 1,000 gallons of monthly usage based on actual  $27.42
               water usage - (double the current industrial rate)
              Monthly fixed fee (double the current industrial    $57.44
               rate)
   Brewery
              Per barrel based on actual monthly production       $4.27
   Cargill Contract
              Flow                                                $12.55
              BOD                                                 $ 0.29
              TSS                                                 $ 0.05
              TP                                                  $7.29
              Sewer base rate                                     $31.02
   Sewer usage will be determined as follows for new accounts and non-winter
residents:
              New owner - existing property: usage will be based   
               on 4,000 gallons
              New owner or new construction: usage will be based   
               on 4,000 gallons
              Non-winter residents: usage will be based on 4,000   
               gallons
   Sewer Service Fees
              Sanitary sewer trunk area fee - per acre            $5,330
              Septage/solids dumping - billed at current          $9.17
               commercial sewer rates per 100/gallons
              Septage dumping - Minnesota limited - pipe water -  $40
               per 1000 gallons (new)
              Sewer access charges (SAC) - anticipated daily use  $5,325
               of water less than 25,000 gallons - per unit
Units will be determined by Building Official And/or Engineer, based on met
council formula. Credit will be given for prior sac paid for property SAC total
charge is calculated utilizing the same unit charge per multiplier as per the
Metropolitan Council Environmental Services (MCES) sewer availability charge
(SAC) procedure manual.
              Sewer access charges (SAC) - for multi-tenant       $3,235
               buildings greater than 4 units - per unit
Units will be determined by the Building Official and/or Engineer, based on met
council formula. Credit will be given for prior sac paid for property SAC total
charge is calculated utilizing the same unit charge per multiplier as per the
Metropolitan Council Environmental Services (MCES) sewer availability charge
(SAC) procedure manual.
               Sewer access charges (SAC) - anticipated daily use  Determined
              of water greater than 25,000 gallons - per unit     by City
                                                                   Engineer
Sewer          New hook-up                                         $75
inspections
              Repairs                                             $35
                                                                10% or $5,
810.19         Sewer late charges - per monthly billing            whichever is
                                                                   greater
              Sludge processing fee - per dry pound               $0.65
              Storm sewer service fees                             
Storm sewer
drainage       Properties less than 1 acre - per month             $4.93
utility fee
820
              Properties greater than 1 acre - per month per acre $4.93/month/
                                                                   acre
Storm sewer                                                       Determined
trunk area fee                                                     by Engineer
              Developments where storm water is contained within  Waived
               the plat boundary
 
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 11-27-2023; Ord. passed 2-14-2024)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section                  Code Section
Ch. 12                        260.03;
                              260.09
12.25(3)                      260.05
12.31                         260.02
12.37                         260.05
12.43                         260.03
                              205;
Chapter 13                    240.09;
                              240.10
13.01 et seq.                 205
Chapter 13D                   205;
                              210.04
14.57 to 14.69                400.10
Chapter 15                    1004.05
                              1002.06;
15.99                         1002.08;
                              1002.11—
                              1002.13
18.75 et. seq.                510.01
18G.02, subd. 24              520.06
18G.13                        520.04
84.64 to 84.65                1004.03
84.787, subd. 7               630.02
84.81                         630.03
84.90                         630.02
84.92, subds. 8 through 10    630.02
84.92, subd. 8                630.03
84.92, subd. 10               630.03
84.9256, subd. 2              630.03
Chapter 86B                   560.01;
                              570.07
Chapter 103A                  1101.09;
                              1107.05
103A.201 et seq.              1005.08
Chapter 103F                  1004.02;
                              1004.03
Chapter 103G                  1004.02
103G.005, subd. 15            1001.02
103G.005, subd. 15a           1001.02
103G.221 et. seq.             1004.04
103G.245                      1004.05
Chapter 116                   1006.01
116.06, subd. 10              335.01
120A.05                       1001.02
120A.24                       1001.02
144.391                       350.01
Chapter 144G                  1001.02
Chapter 146A                  1001.02
                              570.02;
Chapter 152                   595.02;
                              595.03
152.01 et seq.                915.06
152.0263, subd. 5             1005.15
Chapter 157                   321.02
157.16                        420.02
157.16, subd. 3(d)            420.02
Chapter 168B                  340.05
168B.011                      340.01
168B.02                       280.01
Chapter 169                   600.01;
                              620.11
169.011                       620.13
169.011, subd. 27             640.01
169.011, subd. 40(a)          631.01
169.011, subd. 45             640.01
169.045                       631.02
169.045, subd. 1(3)           631.01
169.222, subd. 6a             640.01
169.223                       640.01
169.69                        625.01;
                              625.02
169.693                       625.01;
                              625.02
Chapter 176 et seq.           260.09
205.10, subd. 3a              200.01;
                              200.03
211B.045                      1300.08
Chapter 216D                  1400.15
216D.01 to 216D.09            1400.15;
                              1400.24
216D.04, subd. 3              1400.03
216B.097                      800.20
237.16                        1400.01
                              1400.01;
237.162                       1400.03;
                              1400.17
237.162, subd. 4              1400.03
                              1400.01;
237.163                       1400.03;
                              1400.17
237.163, subd. 2(b)           1400.02
237.163, subd. 6              1400.29
237.79                        1400.01
237.81                        1400.01
Chapter 238                   1400.03
238.086                       1400.01
243.166                       596.03
243.167                       596.03
244.052                       596.02
245.462, subd. 23             1001.02
245A.02, subd. 4              1001.02
245A.02, subd. 10             1001.02
272.67                        1500.01
278.01 through 278.13         395.10
303.02                        395.06
Chapter 308A                  1400.03
326B.101 through 326B.194     900.01
326B.121                      900.02;
                              900.03
326B.133                      900.02
326B.148                      900.04
327.32, subd. 1               1003.10
Chapter 329                   320.03
                              400.01;
                              410.01;
Chapter 340A                  420.01;
                              420.09;
                              1001.02
340A.24                       420.03
340A.26                       420.03
340A.28                       420.03
340A.285                      420.03
340A.29                       420.03
340A.301, subd. 6, clause (d) 400.02
340A.401 et seq.              395.11
340A.404, subd. 5             400.02
340A.404, subd. 5, clause (b) 400.02
340A.409                      400.03
340A.503, subd. 1(a)(1)       580.02
                              310.01,
Chapter 342                   595.03,
                              1005.15
342.01                        310.02
342.01, subd. 50              1001.02
342.13(c)                     1005.15
342.17                        1001.02
342.22, subd. 1               310.04
342.28                        1001.02
342.29                        1001.02
342.39, subd. 2               1005.15
Chapter 343                   391.02
347.51                        391.12
347.515                       391.12
347.52                        391.12
347.56                        391.12
                              360.02;
Chapter 349                   360.03;
                              370.02
351.02                        200.01
358.05                        240.08
364.03                        400.07;
                              420.07
364.03, subd. 2               395.09;
                              395.13
364.03, subd. 3               380.07;
                              395.09
364.06                        240.09;
                              240.10
364.09                        240.09;
                              240.10
412.02                        200.01
412.02, subd. 2a              200.03
412.851                       1101.10
                              520.08;
Chapter 429                   910.08;
                              1109.01;
                              1400.22
429.021                       830.01
                              510.05;
429.101                       520.08;
                              550.03
Chapter 444                   820.01
444.075, subd. 3              820.04
Chapter 453                   1400.03
Chapter 453A                  1400.03
                              1002.12;
                              1002.13;
Chapter 462                   1004.02;
                              1004.03;
                              1400.22
462.351                       565.01
462.351 et seq.               1001.02
462.351 to 462.365            1000.04
462.352, subd. 12             1102
462.354, subd. 1              250.01
462.357                       1005.15
462.357, subd. 6              1001.02
462.357, subd. 7              1001.02
462.357, subd. 8              1001.02
462.358, subd. 4b             1101.04
462.3593                      1005.13
462.3593, subd. 9             1005.13
462.364                       565.01
471.895                       205
Chapter 473                   1000.03
Chapter 505                   1101.04
Chapter 508                   1101.06
Chapter 508A                  1101.06
515.01 through 515.29         1001.01
609.02, subd. 7a              391.02
609.02, subd. 8               391.02
609.205, clause (4)           391.12
609.221 through 609.224       915.06
609.226, subd. 1              391.12
609.226, subd. 2              391.12
609.321 through 609.322       915.06
609.595                       915.06
609.72                        915.06
617.23 through 617.299        915.06
617.241                       1001.02;
                              1005.10
624.20 through 624.25         396.03
624.712, subd. 5              396.07
626.862                       100.13
Chapter 645                   100.03
Chapter 2161                  1400.05
21613.02, subd. 4             1400.03
                              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2001-37  5-23-2001   1003.18
2001-67  10-10-2001  1003.18
2002-34  7-10-2002   1003.18
2003-19  2-19-2003   1003.18
2003-39  6-11-2003   1003.18
2003-59  7-23-2003   1003.18
2003-61  7-23-2003   1003.18
2003-123 12-10-2003  1003.18
2004-76  6-23-2004   1003.18
2004-116 10-13-2004  1003.18
2005-118 8-10-2005   1003.18
2006-08  1-11-2006   1003.18
2006-26  2-22-2006   1003.18
2006-29  2-22-2006   1003.18
2006-36  3-8-2006    1003.18
2006-49  4-12-2006   1003.18
2006-65  5-10-2006   1003.18
2006-130 11-8-2006   1003.18
2007-52  5-23-2007   1003.18
2007-119 11-24-2007  1003.18
2008-86  9-24-2008   1003.18
2009-49  6-10-2009   1003.18
2011-12  1-26-2011   1003.18
2011-52  7-13-2011   1003.18
2011-94  12-14-2011  1003.18
2016-24  3-23-2016   1003.18
2016-80  9-28-2016   1003.18
2016-97  11-9-2016   1003.18
2018-38  5-9-2018    1003.18
2018-115 12-12-2018  1003.18
2019-41  6-12-2019   1003.18
2019-47  7-24-2019   1003.18
2019-94  12-11-2019  1003.18
2020-15  2-26-2020   1003.18
2020-40  4-22-2020   1003.18
2020-48  5-27-2020   1003.18
2021-10  1-27-2021   1003.18
2021-20  3-24-2021   1003.18
2022-36  4-27-2022   1003.18
2022-38  4-27-2022   1003.18
2022-61  7-27-2022   1003.18
2022-82  10-26-2022  1003.18
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2003-02  2-19-2003   1003.18
2004-02  1-28-2004   520.02
2004-09  4-14-2004   1003.01
2004-31  10-27-2004  810.18;
                     810.19
–      12-8-2010   1500.01—
                     1500.06
2011-08  12-14-2011  1003.18
2013-04  12-11-2013  400.02
2013-05  12-11-2013  830.01—
                     830.05
–      4-22-2015   595.01—
                     595.04
2015-08  6-23-2015   140.01—
                     140.07
2015-12  12-9-2015   530.01
2017-17  4-12-2017   1500.01—
                     1500.06
2019-10  6-12-2019   1003.18
2019-17  12-11-2019  1003.18
2020-03  2-26-2020   1003.18
2020-10  4-22-2020   1003.18
2020-12  5-27-2020   1003.18
2022-05  4-27-2022   1003.18
2022-06  4-27-2022   1003.18
2023-06  6-14-2023   1003.03
                     1003.18;
2023-07  6-14-2023   1104.01;
                     1104.03;
                     1106.03
                     400.12;
2023-08  6-14-2023   1002.10;
                     1006.07
2023-11  11-27-2023  Appendix A
–      2-14-2024   Appendix A
2024-01  2-14-2024   395.01—
                     395.16
2024-02  2-28-2024   250.01—
                     250.05
2024-06  5-8-2024    640.01
2024-07  5-22-2024   530.01
2024-10  8-28-2024   1001.02
                     310.01—
                     310.07,
2025-01  1-22-2025   1001.02,
                     1003.05,
                     1005.15
2025-03  3-26-2025   1101.04
2024-04  4-23-2025   1300.06
2025-05  5-14-2025   595.03
                    
 
