BRAHAM, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 311, passed 11-7-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application for future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
   
Appendix A:   Notice of code violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Braham City Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to, and cited by, its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may
be referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as
“§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent, or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated, unless expressly so
limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION FOR FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of this chapter compatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code,
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only, and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Braham, Minnesota. The term CITY, when used in this
code, may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Isanti County and Kanabec County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person, and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to, and includes, an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code, as now or later amended, or its application
to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word, or words, necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word, or words, when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word, or words, supplied, omitted, or substituted, as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time, or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from, and after, the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect, unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from, and after, the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance, or part of an ordinance, shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance, or part of an ordinance,
thus repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing, or modifying, it when publication is required to give
effect to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT A CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed,
and a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in
its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance, which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section, shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted, and remain punishable, as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed, as if this code had not been
enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Administrator for public inspection. The City Administrator shall provide a
copy for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code, or referenced in this code, are hereby
adopted by reference, or referenced as if they had been in existence at the
time this code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the
code to the contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting the code
of ordinances, all future supplements are hereby adopted, as if they had been
in existence at the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention
expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff, shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Administrator shall have the authority to administer and enforce
this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code, or by the City Administrator or City Council, shall
have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and
any person, or persons, designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Administrator and any city official or employee designated by
this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may,
with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property, or
resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect, or
otherwise enter, any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of, or entrance, to the property, the City
Administrator, peace officer, or any employee or official charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection, or otherwise entering, the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with, and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit, at reasonable times, inspections of, or
entrance to, the property by the City Administrator, or any other authorized
city officer or employee, only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the people are being
complied with, and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit
the inspection of, or entrance to, the property shall be grounds for
termination of any and all permits, licenses, or city service to the property.
Mailed notice shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident, or other person
in control of the property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the
licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of the property shall be
given an opportunity to appear before the City Administrator to object to the
termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the City Administrator’s
decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled, or special, meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
The resolution may be in the form established in the
Appendix to this chapter. The resolution may not proscribe administrative
penalties for traffic offenses designated by M.S. § 169.999, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective, and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the Peace Officer, City Administrator, or other
person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, in a
written notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the person
who is alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may request
the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation directly to
the City Administrator within 14 days of the notice of the violation. In the
sole discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the
time for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not
requested by the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the
administrative penalty, the person giving notice may request, in the notice to
the alleged violator, to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation
resulting in the alleged violation, and may provide that if the alleged
violator corrects the situation resulting in the alleged violation within the
time specified in the notice, that the payment of the administrative penalty
will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment, or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty, which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90
days, or a fine the amount of which shall be set by Council from time to time,
or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty, which may be imposed for any petty offense
which is a petty misdemeanor, shall be a sentence of a fine the amount of which
shall be set by Council from time to time.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, or in §
10.98, if any person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision
of this code, the Council, or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings, at law or at equity, to restrain, correct, or abate
the violation.
APPENDIX A: NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of section of the city code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                 
of the city code relating
to                                                                                                                                     
.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $         for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash or money
order to the City Treasurer.
Signed:                                                               
      (Name and title of person giving notice)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City’s official seal, logo; use of name
§ 11.01 CITY’S OFFICIAL SEAL, LOGO; USE OF NAME.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY NAME. City of Braham, City of Braham, Minnesota, or Braham,
Minnesota.
      CORPORATE SEAL. Contains the words “City of Braham Corporate Seal,
Isanti/Kanabec Co, Minnesota”, typecast in a circular format.
      LOGO.
      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b36b9d42e9370ada2703e0869412408390d30e7d/IMAGES/0-0-0-1510.png]
      ORGANIZATION. All formal and informal groups, associations, and
aggregates of persons, groups, and/or associations which are not themselves
legal entities, whether singular or plural.
      PERSON. Any and all persons, whether natural or corporate, and all other
entities and organizations, whether singular or plural.
      PROPERTY. All real property, as well as all tangible and intangible
personal property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the name, logos, or
official seal of the city, whether directly or indirectly, expressly, or by
implication, in a way that creates the perception that the city and/or its
departments, agencies, or programs, are involved in, or supports or endorses in
any way, a person or organization in any pursuit, activity, or thing of any
kind whatsoever, including, but not limited to, causes or events.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall restrict the City Administrator from
entering into a licensing agreement with any person or organization for the use
of the city’s name, logos, or official seal for any purpose and without
monetary consideration, provided such licensing agreement is in writing and
signed by the City Administrator. However, the City Administrator may, from
time to time, be authorized, by resolution of the City Council, to enter into
licensing agreements with revenue generating potential on behalf of the city
for the use of the city’s name, logos, or official seal.
   (D)   If a person intends to use the city’s name, logo, and/or official seal
without the city’s consent, the city shall have the right to seek an injunction
to prevent the use. If a person uses the city’s name, logo, or official seal
without the city’s consent, the city shall have the right to an injunction to
prevent future use, as well as damages for the unauthorized use of the city’s
name, logo, or official seal.
(Ord. 289, passed 1-7-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS; ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   PERMITS AND FEES
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   FEE SCHEDULE
      
34.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 30: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS; ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Officers and Employees
   
30.01   Combining offices of City Clerk and Treasurer; City Administrator
   
30.02   Salaries; Mayor and Council
   
30.03   Voluntary police reserve
Planning Commission
   
30.15   Composition
   
30.16   Term of office
   
30.17   Vacancies
   
30.18   Oath of office
   
30.19   Compensation
   
30.20   Removal from office
   
30.21   Organization
   
30.22   Secretary
   
30.23   Meetings
   
30.24   Procedures
   
30.25   Powers and duties
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 30.01 COMBINING OFFICES OF CITY CLERK AND TREASURER; CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. §§ 412.02, subd. 3, and
412.591, subd. 2, as they are amended from time to time, the offices of Clerk
and Treasurer in the city are hereby combined into the office of Clerk-
Treasurer, which office shall also be known as the office of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   Beginning with the year in which this subchapter became effective, and
each year thereafter, there shall be an audit of the city’s financial affairs
by the State Auditor, or a public accountant in accordance with minimum
auditing procedures prescribed by the State Auditor.
(Ord. 115, passed 3-2-1987)
§ 30.02 SALARIES; MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   (A)   Commencing January 1, 2021, the salary for the Mayor is fixed at
$2,787 per year, and the salary for each Council member is fixed at $2,145 per
year.
   (B)   Commencing January 1, 2021, the per diem amount for the Mayor and each
Council member is fixed at $30 per special Council meeting, other public
meetings, approved conferences, and training sessions, or required time spent
on city business. No per diems will be paid for regularly scheduled Council
meetings. No more than one per diem per day will be paid without Council
approval. No more than ten per diems per month will be paid, except that a per
diem will be paid for a properly called special meeting of the Council, which
will not be included in the ten per diem limit.
   (C)   Commencing January 1, 2021, appointed members of any committees
appointed by the City Council shall be paid a per diem of $25 for each meeting
attended, and where the committee member is also a member of the City Council,
the compensation will be at the current per diem rate for a Council meeting in
place of the $25 committee per diem. Only one per diem payment per day will be
paid, regardless of the number of meetings attended, and no more than a total
of three per diems per month (for one regular meeting and two special
meetings). Per diems for committee members require preapproval by the City
Administrator or Mayor, and will not be paid for activity outside of a meeting
quorum.
(Ord. 288, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 288, passed 11-1-2022)
Editor’s note:
   The temporary salary reductions enacted by Ord. 288, passed 11-1-2022,
lapsed after 12 months, pursuant to M.S. § 415.11, subd. 3.
§ 30.03 VOLUNTARY POLICE RESERVE.
   (A)   Under the direction of the Mayor and City Council, the Police Chief
shall establish a voluntary police reserve within the city to be known as the
“Braham Police Reserve Unit”, pursuant to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   The qualifications of the members of the Reserve shall be determined
by the Chief of Police, with final appointment to be made by the Mayor and City
Council.
   (C)   The size of the Reserve shall be determined by the Chief of Police, as
approved by the Mayor and City Council. The Chief of Police shall be
responsible for the administration of the Police Reserve Unit.
   (D)   The duties and obligations of the members of the Reserve shall be to
aid in the enforcement of all laws and in the suppression of disturbances, the
preservation of peace, and the protection of life and property, all under the
authority of the laws of the state and supervision of the Chief of Police.
   (E)   Individual members may be used as deemed necessary by the Chief of
Police, but the entire Reserve shall not be called out to duty, except upon
direct order of the Mayor or his or her designate. No member of the Reserve, or
the Reserve itself, shall exercise any authority outside the limits of the
city.
   (F)   Members of the Reserve shall receive no compensation for their
services, except that they shall be covered by Worker’s Compensation Insurance
while on duty.
   (G)   The Policy and Procedures Manual of the Braham Police Reserve Unit is
hereby adopted as the formal policy for the guidelines to follow in the
recruitment and operation of this unit.
   (H)   Any amendments to the Policy and Procedures Manual of the Braham
Police Reserve Unit must be made by resolution as approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 200, passed 5-1-2000)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 30.15 COMPOSITION.
   The Planning Commission shall be composed as follows.
   (A)   Members. The Planning Commission shall consist of five members
selected from the city residents, and/or people who own property within the
city limits and are approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Ex-officio member. Each year, the Mayor shall appoint one member of
the City Council to serve as a non-voting, ex-officio member of the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   Advisors. The City Attorney, City Engineer, City Zoning Administrator,
and City Building Official shall be official advisors to the Planning
Commission. The advisors shall attend Planning Commission meetings upon
request.
(Ord. 119, passed 8-3-1987; Ord. 285, passed 1-7-2020)
§ 30.16 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The members of the Commission first appointed:
      (1)   Two shall be appointed for the term of one year;
      (2)   Two shall be appointed for the term of two years; and
      (3)   One shall be appointed for the term of three years.
   (B)   All successors shall be appointed for the term of three years. Both
original and successor of a member shall hold his or her offices until his or
her successors are appointed and qualified. The terms of ex-officio members
shall correspond to his or her respective official tenures.
(Ord. 119, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 30.17 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies occurring during the term shall be filed for the remainder of the
current year by the City Council.
(Ord. 119, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 30.18 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every appointed member of the Planning Commission shall, before entering
upon the discharge of his or her duties, take an oath that he or she will
faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office.
(Ord. 119, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 30.19 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Planning Commission may receive compensation for his or
her duties as the City Council may deem appropriate.
(Ord. 119, passed 8-3-1987; Ord. 158, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 30.20 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   Any regular member of the Planning Commission may be removed from office by
a four-fifths vote of the City Council.
(Ord. 119, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 30.21 ORGANIZATION.
   The Planning Commission will elect, from among the regular members, a
Chairperson of the Commission.
(Ord. 119, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 30.22 SECRETARY.
   The City Administrator, or a designated staff person, shall act as Secretary
for the Planning Commission. The Secretary shall, in no event, be a member of
the Commission, except that in absence of the Secretary from a regular meeting,
the Chairperson of the Planning Commission shall designate a temporary
Secretary, either from among the members of the Commission, or non-members of
the Commission to serve as a temporary Secretary.
(Ord. 119, passed 8-3-1987; Ord. 158, passed 10-7-1996)
§ 30.23 MEETINGS.
   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each month
at a time and place determined by the Commission. All meetings of the
Commission, at which business is transacted, shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 119, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 30.24 PROCEDURES.
   The Planning Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business,
and shall keep a public record of all motions, resolutions, transactions,
findings, minutes, and reports, which shall be promptly reduced to writing, and
a copy forwarded to each member of the Commission.
(Ord. 119, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 30.25 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall act in an advisory capacity to the City
Council, and shall have the powers and duties given such agencies generally by
M.S. §§ 462.351 through 462.365, as they are amended from time to time. It
shall also exercise the duties conferred upon it by this subchapter, the duties
conferred upon by the ordinances of the city pertaining thereto, and the duties
conferred by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 119, passed 8-3-1987)
CHAPTER 31: PERMITS AND FEES
Section
Special Events
   
31.01   Purpose
   
31.02   Definitions
   
31.03   Permit required
   
31.04   Application
   
31.05   Issuance of permit, conditions, posting
   
31.06   Exceptions
   
31.07   Authorization
Fire Services; Fees
   
31.20   Purpose
   
31.21   Definitions
   
31.22   Parties affected
   
31.23   Rates
   
31.24   Billing, collection
   
31.25   Mutual aid agreement
   
31.26   Billing procedure for fire protection contracts
   
31.27   Application of collections to budget
 
   
31.99   Penalty
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 31.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the citizens of the city by regulating the time, place, and manner of
conduct of special events, and by establishing permit requirements for
conducting special events as such are herein defined. The City Council finds
that special events often exceed the city’s capacity to provide usual city
services. The city services include, but are not limited to, sanitary, fire,
police, and utility service. The City Council also finds these regulations
necessary to ensure that such events are conducted with sufficient
consideration given to public safety issues including, among other things, the
impact of such events on parking and vehicular traffic within the city.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 31.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. A natural person, association, organization, club, group formed for
a common purpose, partnership of any kind, limited liability company,
corporation, or any other legal entity.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An outdoor gathering of at least 50 individuals on public
property, assembled with a common purpose for a period of one hour or longer.
SPECIAL EVENTS include, but are not limited to, concerts, fairs, carnivals,
circuses, parades, flea markets, marathons, walkathons, festivals, races,
bicycle events, celebrations, or any other gathering or event of similar
nature. SPECIAL EVENTS do not include events held on private property.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 31.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall hold, conduct, or participate in a special event within the
city unless a permit has been issued for such event upon timely written
application made to the city.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-2-2002) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.04 APPLICATION.
   Written application for special event permits must be made at least 30 days
in advance of the event’s proposed date in a form prescribed by the City
Council. This application period shall not begin to run until a complete
application has been filed with the city. Application forms shall be made
available in the office of the City Administrator. A fee, in the amount set by
the city’s fee schedule, shall be paid to the city along with the completed
application form. Failure to provide a complete application or to pay the fee,
as herein required, is sufficient reason to deny the special events permit.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 31.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT, CONDITIONS, POSTING.
   (A)   Special events permits will be issued upon Council approval. The
Council may attach such reasonable conditions to the permit as are deemed
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the community. Such
conditions may pertain to any of the following:
      (1)   Location and hours during which the event may be held;
      (2)   Sanitation/availability of potable water;
      (3)   Security/crowd management;
      (4)   Parking and traffic issues;
      (5)   Emergency and medical services;
      (6)   Cleanup of premises and surrounding area/trash disposal;
      (7)   Insurance;
      (8)   Lighting;
      (9)   Fire service/safety;
      (10)   Temporary construction, barricades, fencing;
      (11)   Removal of advertising/promotional materials;
      (12)   Noise level;
      (13)   Alcohol consumption; and/or
      (14)   Any other condition which the Council deems necessary.
   (B)   Upon Council approval, the City Administrator shall issue a permit to
the person(s) named in the permit application. The permit shall clearly state
the conditions, if any, imposed by the Council. Copies of the permit shall be
posted in three prominent locations during the special event.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 31.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   The permit requirement contained in §
31.05 does not apply to the following:
   (A)   Special events sponsored and managed by the city;
   (B)   Funerals and funeral processions;
   (C)   The grounds of any school, playground, place of worship, hotel,
conference center, stadium, athletic fields, arena, auditorium, or similar
permanent place of assembly when used for regularly established assembly
purpose;
   (D)   Any events on private property; or
   (E)   Persons or organizations operating a concession authorized by a non-
profit association in connection with a fair, festival, or celebration which is
being held under the direction of that non-profit association.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-2-2002)
§ 31.07 AUTHORIZATION.
   Persons or organizations are prohibited from operating a concession, or
selling products or services, on public property within the defined fair,
festival, or celebration area without authorization from the non-profit
association sponsoring the event. The entity sponsoring the event shall submit
a description of the defined festival area in the permit application to the
City Council for approval.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-2-2002)
FIRE SERVICES; FEES
§ 31.20 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted for the purpose of authorizing the city to charge
for fire service as authorized by M.S. §§ 366.011, 366.012, and 415.01, as they
may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 279, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 31.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT. A contract between the city and a town, or other
city, for the city to provide fire service.
   FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of firefighting personnel, and/or equipment, to
extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to protect
equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire. It also includes
the deployment of firefighting personnel, and/or equipment, to provide fire
suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire and
rescue, as may occasionally occur.
   FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed, and originally
manufactured, to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes SEMI-TRAILERS. It does
not include snowmobiles, manufactured homes, all-terrain vehicles, or park
trailers.
   MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a town, or other
city, for the city’s Fire Department to provide assistance to the fire
department of a town or other city.
(Ord. 279, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 31.22 PARTIES AFFECTED.
   Those who fall under the protection of the Fire Department are:
   (A)   Owners of property who receive fire service;
   (B)   Anyone who receives fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire; or
   (C)   Owners of property to which the city provides fire service pursuant to
a fire protection contract.
(Ord. 279, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 31.23 RATES.
   Rates for fire services are:
   (A)   Fire calls: $500;
   (B)   False alarms and CO2 detectors: $250;
   (C)   Car accidents: $500, split between parties;
   (D)   Foam charge: dependent upon usage; and
   (E)   Medical responses: no charge.
(Ord. 279, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 31.24 BILLING, COLLECTION.
   (A)   Parties requesting and receiving fire services will be billed directly
by the city within 30 days of the fire service. Additionally, if the party
receiving fire services did not request services, but a fire or other situation
exists which, at the discretion of the Fire Department personnel in charge,
requires fire service, the party will be charged and billed. All parties will
be billed whether or not the fire service is covered by insurance. Any billable
amount of the fire charge not covered by a party’s insurance remains a debt of
the party receiving the fire service.
   (B)   Parties billed for fire service will have 30 days to pay. If the fire
service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent and
the city will send a notice of delinquency.
   (C)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the notice
of delinquency is sent, the city may use all practical and reasonable legal
means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire service
shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city including, but
not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
   (D)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the notice
of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also certify the unpaid fire
service charge to the County Auditor in which the recipient of the services
owns real property for collection with taxes. The County Auditor is responsible
for remitting to the city all charges collected on behalf of the city. The city
must give the property owner notice of its intent to certify the unpaid fire
service charge 30 days in advance of certification.
   (E)   False alarms will be billed in accordance with §
31.23(B).
(Ord. 279, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 31.25 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT.
   When the City Fire Department provides fire service to another fire
department pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the billing will be determined
by the mutual aid agreement.
(Ord. 279, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 31.26 BILLING PROCEDURE FOR FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACTS.
   When the City Fire Department provides fire service to another fire
department pursuant to a fire protection contract, the billing will be
determined by the contract.
(Ord. 279, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 31.27 APPLICATION OF COLLECTIONS TO BUDGET.
   All collected fire charges will be city funds, and used to offset the
expenses of the City Fire Department in providing fire services.
(Ord. 279, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any condition of a special event permit,
or any provision of §§
31.01 through
31.07, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as prescribed by state law.
      (2)   Enforcement of §§
31.01 through
31.07 may, at the Council’s discretion, take any of the following forms:
         (a)   Citation/criminal prosecution;
         (b)   Injunctions, declaratory judgments, or other civil remedies;
         (c)   Permit revocation; and/or
         (d)   Dispersion of persons gathered.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-2-2002)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Policy and purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Establishment of Emergency Management Organization
   
32.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
32.05   Local emergencies
   
32.06   Emergency regulations
   
32.07   Emergency management a government function
   
32.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds, or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to ensure that preparations of the city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of the city, it is hereby found, and declared, to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city Emergency Management Organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between the city and other
political subdivisions of the state, and of other states, with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in, or
is likely to result in, catastrophic loss to property, and for which
traditional sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are
unable to repair or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for, and the carrying out of, all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as CIVIL DEFENSE
FUNCTIONS.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities, and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 32.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an Emergency Management
Organization, which shall be under the supervision and control of the city
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term, and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council, and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and
operation of the Emergency Preparedness Organization, subject to the direction
and control of the Council. The Emergency Management Organization shall conform
to, and be consistent with, where applicable, all state and federal
requirements, including the National Incident Management System framework found
at 44 C.F.R. part 201, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city, as deemed necessary, to
determine their adequacy for emergency management, and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent, and fully integrated, with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state, and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs, and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises, as may be necessary, to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with, and extend services and facilities to, the city’s Emergency Management
Organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
Emergency Management Personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
Emergency Personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies,
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the State Emergency Services Law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city, and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 32.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by, or with, the consent of the Council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity, and shall be filed in the office of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or interjurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an interjurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may, by resolution, promulgate regulations
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies, the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Administrator. A copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of these regulations, and their availability for
inspection at the City Administrator’s office, shall be conspicuously posted at
the front of the City Hall or other headquarters of the city, or at other
places in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution.
By resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date, or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.37, as it may be amended from time to time, and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property, and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this chapter or under the Worker’s Compensation
Law, being M.S. Chapter 176, or under any pension law, nor the right of any
person to receive any benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 32.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The Emergency Management Organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly, or indirectly, for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct, other than official
acts of city employees or officers, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 33: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
General City Fees
   
33.01   Fee schedule
Building Permit Fees
   
33.10   Building inspection services
   
33.11   Permit and inspection fees
   
33.12   Project valuation determination
   
33.13   Plan review fees
   
33.14   State surcharge on building, mechanical and plumbing permits
   
33.15   Refunds
   
33.16   Work without a permit
   
33.17   Validity, expiration, and suspension or revocation of permits
   
33.18   Residential mechanical permit fees
   
33.19   Residential plumbing permit fees
   
33.20   Other permits and fees
§ 33.01  FEE SCHEDULE.
Description Amount Notations
Description                                                                        Amount         Notations
Administrative citations and ordinance violations
Administrative citations                                                           $60 per         
                                                                                   citation
                                                                                   Actual costs
                                                                                   for repairing
Ordinance violations under Public Works, Title V                                   any damage to  Examples include: contaminating the municipal water supply, illegal connection
                                                                                   the city's     to sanitary sewer or water mains, disposing of chemicals in the sewage
                                                                                   system         collection system, and the like will be charged actual costs to repair the
                                                                                   $100 per       violation
Turning on disconnected water after the city has discontinued service for non-     violation
payment                                                                             

                                                                                   $50 per hour
Nuisance abatement pursuant to Title IX General Regulations                        for mowing and
                                                                                   snow removal
                                                                                   Actual costs
   Administrative warrant to enter property to fix violations if necessary      to obtain
                                                                                   billed to
                                                                                   violator
                                                                                   Actual costs
                                                                                   billed to      Minimum one-hour billed - each violation
                                                                                   violator.
   Abatement activities                                                      Specially
      (cleaning up junk, securing vacant dwellings, removing diseased trees, assessed to
abating nuisances, et al)                                                          property if
                                                                                   invoice
                                                                                   remains
                                                                                   unpaid.
                                                                                    
                                                                                   Operating
                                                                                   without a
                                                                                   license is a   Officers have the option to issue a state ticket for a misdemeanor offense.
                                                                                   misdemeanor
Ordinance violations under Business Regulations, Title XI                          citation
                                                                                   Administrative With respect to licensed establishments, Council has the authority to suspend,
                                                                                   citation is    impose a civil fine, or revoke a license for failed compliance with the
                                                                                   $100 per       ordinance
                                                                                   violation
Ordinance violations under General Offenses, Title XIII                                          Officers have the option to also issue a state ticket for a misdemeanor offense
Ordinance violations under Land Use, Title XV                                      $200 per       If the violation remains, the city can continue to issue new citations until the
                                                                                   violation      violation is corrected
Licenses
Adult entertainment                                                                $2,500 per     New licenses will also pay an investigation fee. Investigation fee is actual
                                                                                   year           costs.
Animals                                                                                           
   Dangerous dog certificate                                                    Actual costs    
   (M.S. § 347.51)
   Kennel license                                                               $50            Per year
   Kennel license - commercial                                                  $150           Per year
   Licenses - life of the animal                                                $5              
   License - duplicate                                                          $5              
   Chicken coop                                                                 $150           Application fee and site review
Cannabinoid                                                                        $150           New licenses will also pay an investigation fee. Investigation fee is actual
                                                                                                  costs.
Carnivals, circuses, tent shows                                                    $25 per day     
Garbage and refuse collection                                                      $400 per year   
Liquor                                                                                            
   Brew pub on-sale                                                             $1,000 per     New licenses will also pay an investigation fee. Investigation fee is actual
                                                                                   year           costs.
   Intoxicating liquor on-sale                                                  $1,000 per     New licenses will also pay an investigation fee. Investigation fee is actual
                                                                                   year           costs.
   Intoxicating liquor on-sale - Sundays                                        $100 per year  New licenses will also pay an investigation fee. Investigation fee is actual
                                                                                                  costs.
   3.2 malt liquor - on-sale                                                    $100 per year  New licenses will also pay an investigation fee. Investigation fee is actual
                                                                                                  costs.
   3.2 malt liquor - off-sale                                                   $100 per year  New licenses will also pay an investigation fee. Investigation fee is actual
                                                                                                  costs.
   Special club                                                                 $500 per year   
   Temporary on-sale - 3.2 malt liquor                                          $75 per event   
   Temporary on-sale - liquor                                                   $75 per event   
   Temporary on-sale - liquor per day                                           $75 per event   
   Wine and strong beer                                                         $400 per year  New licenses will also pay an investigation fee. Investigation fee is actual
                                                                                                  costs.
Pawnbroker                                                                         $750 per year  New licenses will also pay an investigation fee. Investigation fee is actual
                                                                                                  costs.
Peddler or solicitor (for profit)                                                  $25 per day     
Peddler or solicitor (non-profit)                                                  No charge       
Tobacco                                                                            $100 per year  New licenses will also pay an investigation fee. Investigation fee is actual
                                                                                                  costs.
Miscellaneous city services
Copies - over 100 including police reports                                         $0.25          Per page plus $25/hour labor costs
                                                                                   $0.25 per page Actual cost for DVDs, photographs, data stored electronically, over 100 copies.
Data practices request - search, copy information                                  under 100      Actual costs include staff time to search, retrieve, and prepare the medium
                                                                                   pages          requested (e.g. DVD).
Fax - in                                                                           $2 plus $1 per  
                                                                                   page
Fax - out                                                                          $4 plus $1 per  
                                                                                   page
Filing for office (affidavit of candidacy)                                         $2              
NSF Charge                                                                         $35             
Notary                                                                             $1             Per document
Rental of Council Chambers by non-profit groups                                    No charge       
                                                                                   $20 per week
Room lease                                                                         or              
                                                                                   $50 per month
Permits
Right-of-way (requiring a street opening or excavation of a paved surface)         $100 per       $3,000 escrow per opening
                                                                                   permit         Must complete permit application form and submit with required documents
Right-of-way - directional bore                                                    No cost        Must complete permit application form and submit with required documents
Building permits - see §§ 33.10 and 33.11 below                                                 
Special event permit                                                               $750           For events with more than 1,000 people in attendance
                                                                                   $50 damage
                                                                                  deposit for    Additional fees that may apply to special event permits are:
                                                                                   resident
                                                                                                     $5 per sign (such as detour, no parking)
                                                                                   $100 damage       $5 per traffic control device
                                                                                  deposit for       $20 per table to move in additional picnic tables from one park to another
                                                                                   non-resident   park
                                                                                                     $75 per hour per officer - 2 hour minimum
Police fees
Civil stand by fees                                                                $75 per hour   2 hour minimum
Copy of photo/police report                                                        $5              
Copying video from squad or BWC                                                    $40 per hour    
Labor rate - OT. Includes squad use                                                Actual costs   Consistent with TZD rates
Labor rate - overtime                                                              Actual costs   Consistent with TZD rates
Special use vehicle operators permit fee                                           $10            Per vehicle
Storage and impound fees                                                           $25 per day    Outside storage
                                                                                  $50 per day    Inside storage
Towing fees                                                                        Actual costs    
Planning, zoning, economic development fees
Assignment and assumption agreement                                                Costs           
Conditional use, interim use permit, planned unit development, platting, rezoning, $250           $250 fee for preliminary plat and a separate $250 fee for final plat
vacation of public right of way request or easement
Developer’s agreement                                                            Costs          Escrow of $5,000 is required
Lot split or lot combination                                                       $100           A legal description for the lot combination or split must be provided by the
                                                                                                  property owner
Park dedication fee                                                                $750 per       $550 for parks and $200 for trails
                                                                                   housing unit
Preliminary financial assistance review                                            Actual costs    
                                                                                   incurred
TIF District or tax abatement applications and developments                        Actual costs   Escrow deposit of $10,000 is required
                                                                                   incurred
Street Department/equipment
Equipment - add actual man hours (MH) unless noted                                               Equipment rental only for mutual aid purposes
Air compressor - portable                                                          $75 per day     
Chain saw - 12"                                                                    $75 per day     
Chain saw - 18"                                                                    $75 per day     
Chop saw - 14"                                                                     $75 per day     
Generator - portable                                                               $150 per hour   
Loader                                                                             $160 per hour   
Mowing                                                                             $125 per hour   
Pump - diaphragm                                                                   $75 per day     
Sewer Jetter/Vac - 2 people per OSHA                                               $275 per hour  Includes MH
Skid loader                                                                        $160 per hour  Includes MH
Snow blower                                                                        $160 per hour  Includes MH
Street sweeper                                                                     $160 per hour  Includes MH
Traffic control                                                                                   
   Barricades                                                                   $5 per          
                                                                                   barricade
   Cones                                                                        $5 per cone     
Truck - bucket - 2 people                                                          $250 per hour  Includes MH
Truck - 3/4-ton                                                                    $160 per hour  Includes MH
Truck - one-ton                                                                    $160 per hour  Includes MH
Truck - tandem/dump                                                                $190 per hour  Includes MH
Truck - single axle                                                                $160 per hour  Includes MH
Water pump (4")                                                                    $120 per hour   
Water and sewer rates
Late fee                                                                           $10 or 10%     Whichever is higher
Meter - fee                                                                        Actual cost    Irrigation meter
                                                                                   incurred
Meter - failure to allow access/noncompliance                                      Disconnect or  Fine up to $1,000 and/or up to 90 days in jail. Plus $50 per month starting the
                                                                                   citation       next billing until in compliance.
Meter - tampering fee                                                              $260           Fine plus costs
Meter - testing                                                                    Actual costs    
                                                                                   incurred
Meter deposit                                                                      $1,350          
Hydrant usage fee/rental fee                                                       $25 plus cost   
                                                                                   of water used
Sewer access charge - SAC                                                          $2,000         Per standard equivalent connection (SEC)
Water access charge - WAC                                                          $1,000         Per standard equivalent connection (SEC)
Reconnect fee                                                                      $55            Residents that request their water be shut off for several months due to being
                                                                                                  out of state will not have to pay a shut-off or reconnect fee but are required
Request to reconnect water after 3:30 p.m. or on a weekend day                     $150           to pay the monthly REU base rates for water and sewer even though the water is
                                                                                                  shut off.

Basic service charges (REUs/SFR) for water and sewer
   Wastewater                                                                   $10.08 per SFR
                                                                                   unit           Each account that is not a single-family residence account shall pay a basic
                                                                                   $17.85 per SFR service charge that is a multiple of the SFR unit basic service charge as
   Water                                                                        unit           calculated by staff pursuant to § 51.04(B)(2).

Per gallon operating charges for water and sewer
Water usage fees (gallons)                                                         Cost per        
                                                                                   gallon ($)
   Zero gallons to 6,000 gallons                                                0.005242       Minimum bill for water usage is 2,500 gallons
   6,001 gallons to 20,000 gallons                                              0.005626        
   20,001 to 38,000 gallons                                                     0.005907        
   38,001 to 50,000 gallons                                                     0.006188        
   Over 50,000 gallons per month                                                0.006604        
All gallons used will be billed on the appropriate usage tier. Example: 6,256 gallons used would be billed at the 6,001 to 20,000 gallon rate for all gallons used.
Sewer usage fees (gallons)                                                         Cost per        
                                                                                   gallon ($)
   0-6,000 gallons                                                              0.010320       Minimum bill is 2,500 gallons
   6,001 gallons to 20,000 gallons                                              0.0107000       
   20,001 to 38,000 gallons                                                     0.011030        
   38,001 to 50,000 gallons                                                     0.011340        
   Over 50,000 gallons per month                                                0.011650        
State drinking water fee                                                           Fee determined When the state changes the fee, the city will reflect the increased price on the
                                                                                   by the state   utility bill
Sprinkler systems - see ordinance                                                                 
NSF charge                                                                         $35             
Outside city limits water/sewer rates                                              See notation   Must pay WAC/SAC, additional 50% of the rates to all pre-existing users outside
                                                                                                  of the city limits
(Ord. 311, passed 11-7-2023)
BUILDING PERMIT FEES
§ 33.10 BUILDING INSPECTION SERVICES.
   (A)   The city contracts with Rum River Consultants for building inspection
services. The city hereby adopts their permit fee schedule as the city's fee
schedule:
   Rum River Consultants Permit and Inspection Fees
   (B)   The administration and issuance of permits and the collection of fees
shall be as authorized in M.S. Ch. 326B, Minn. Rules 1300.0120 and 1300.0160,
and as provided by this fee schedule. Fees are to be commensurate with the
service provided. Permit fees not specifically identified within this fee
schedule are based on the valuation determined by §
33.12.
(Ord. 311, passed 11-7-2023)
§ 33.11 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   Permit and inspection fees for residential building, commercial building,
fire suppression, fire alarm, commercial mechanical, and commercial plumbing.
The minimum fee for processing these permits is $100.
Total valuation Permit fee
Total valuation              Permit fee
$1.00 to $2,000.00           $100.00 minimum
                             $100.00 for the first $2,000.00 plus $16.55 for
$2,001.00 to $25,000.00      each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $25,000.00
                             $464.15 for the first $25,000.00 plus $12.00 for
$25,001.00 to $50,000.00     each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $50,000.00
                             $764.15 for the first $50,000.00 plus $8.45 for
$50,001.00 to $100,000.00    each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $100,000.00
                             $1,186.65 for the first $100,000.00 plus $6.75 for
$100,001.00 to $500,000.00   each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $500,000.00
                             $3,886.65 for the first $500,000.00 plus $5.50 for
$500,001.00 to $1,000,000.00 each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $1,000,000.00; and
$1,000,001.00 and up         $6,636.65 for the first $1,000,000.00 plus $4.50
                             for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof
(Ord. 311, passed 11-7-2023)
§ 33.12 PROJECT VALUATION DETERMINATION.
   The Designated Building Official has the authority and responsibility to
determine project valuation for the purposes of establishing applicable plan
review and permit fees. Valuation data may be referenced from the state and/or
the International Code Council.
(Ord. 311, passed 11-7-2023)
§ 33.13 PLAN REVIEW FEES.
   (A)   Where a plan review fee is performed and charged, the minimum plan
review fee for all permits is $50. Plan review fees for building, fire
suppression, and fire alarm permits shall be 65% of the building permit fees as
set forth in §
33.11. Plan review fees for similar plans are set forth in Minn. Rules
1300.0160.
   (B)   Plan review fees for all commercial mechanical permits shall be 10% of
the permit fee when a project job valuation is determined to exceed $30,000.
   (C)   In the event a permit applicant submits an application that requires
plan review and decides not to proceed with the building project after the plan
review has been completed, the plan review fee will be billed by the
jurisdiction to the permit applicant.
(Ord. 311, passed 11-7-2023)
§ 33.14 STATE SURCHARGE ON BUILDING, MECHANICAL AND PLUMBING PERMITS.
   In addition to the permit fees established in this fee schedule, a surcharge
fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work governed by the Minnesota
State Building Code in accordance with M.S. § 326B.148.
(Ord. 311, passed 11-7-2023)
§ 33.15 REFUNDS.
   (A)   The jurisdiction may refund up to 80% of the permit fees in which no
work has been done and no inspections have been made. Requests for refunds must
be made by the permit applicant in writing within 180 days of issuance. Within
ten days of receipt, the Building Official must review the refund request and
determine the amount to be refunded or deny the refund request for cause.
   (B)   No refunds will be approved or granted for the following: plan review
fees, state surcharge fees, re-inspection fees, or any other services that have
previously been rendered.
(Ord. 311, passed 11-7-2023)
§ 33.16 WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   Work commenced without a permit may result in additional fees as specified
in Minn. Rules 1300.010, subpart 8.
(Ord. 311, passed 11-7-2023)
§ 33.17 VALIDITY, EXPIRATION AND SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The validity, expiration, and suspension or revocation of permits shall be
as provided by Minn. Rules 1300.0120, subparts 10, 11, and 12.
(Ord. 311, passed 11-7-2023)
§ 33.18 RESIDENTIAL MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES.
New construction mechanical (includes HVAC system, mechanical $150 per unit
ventilation system, and gas lines)
Addition, alteration, remodel, or replacement mechanical      $125
Basement finish mechanical                                    $125
Fireplace                                                     $125
Garage heater                                                 $125
Gas lines                                                     $125
Miscellaneous mechanical appliance                            $125
All other minor mechanical work                               $125
Furnace and air conditioner units installed and inspected     $185
simultaneously
(Ord. 311, passed 11-7-2023)
§ 33.19 RESIDENTIAL PLUMBING PERMIT FEES.
New construction plumbing                     $150 per unit
Addition, alteration, remodel, or replacement $125
Basement finish                               $125
Water heater                                  $125
Water conditioning system                     $125
Miscellaneous plumbing fixtures               $125
Municipal sewer connection                    $125
Municipal water connection                    $125
 
(Ord. 311, passed 11-7-2023)
§ 33.20 OTHER PERMITS AND FEES.
                                         Refer to §
Accessory structures                     33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
                                         apply.
                                         Refer to §
Structure additions, alterations         33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
                                         apply.
                                         Refer to §
Structure remodel                        33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
                                         apply.
                                         Refer to §
Basement finishes                        33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
                                         apply.
                                         Refer to §
Deck                                     33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
                                         apply.
                                         Refer to §
Fence over 7 feet high                   33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
                                         apply.
Residential structure moving (additional
fees incurred exceeding 60 miles from    $250
the jurisdiction)
Residential roofing                      $125
Residential siding                       $125
Residential window replacement (same     $125
size)
                                         Refer to §
Commercial demolition                    33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
                                         apply.
Residential demolition                   $200
Manufactured home set-up                 $175
(foundation and connections only)
Solar/photovoltaic systems residential   $175
(up to 3.5kW)
Solar/photovoltaic systems residential   Refer to §
(over 3.5kW)                             33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
                                         apply.
                                         Refer to §
Solar/photovoltaic systems commercial    33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
                                         apply.
Residential irrigation system, including $125
backflow prevention
Association, commercial, industrial,     Refer to §
multi-family irrigation system           33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
                                         apply.
Miscellaneous commercial or residential  Refer to §
building permits for which no fee is     33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
specifically indicated                   apply.
Temporary heating equipment              $150
Inspections which no fee is specifically $125 per hour
indicated
Additional plan review required by
changes, additions, or revisions to      $95 per hour
previously approved plans
Re-inspection fees                       $95 per hour/inspection - whichever is
                                         greater (minimum charge of 1 hour)
Inspections outside of normal business   $150 per hour (minimum charge of 2
hours                                    hours)
                                         Refer to §
Change of use/occupancy                  33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
                                         apply.
Septic system - residential new          $250
                                         Refer to §
Septic system - commercial new           33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
                                         apply.
Septic system - residential alteration/  $200
repair
Septic system - commercial alteration/   Refer to §
repair                                   33.11 table. A 65% plan review may
                                         apply.
Operating permit                         $125 annually
Maintenance/pumping permit               $10 triennial
 
(Ord. 311, passed 11-7-2023)
CHAPTER 34: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
34.01   City Council meetings
   
34.02   Presiding officer
   
34.03   Minutes
   
34.04   Order of business
   
34.05   Voting
   
34.06   Ordinance, resolutions, motions, petitions and communications
   
34.07   Suspension or amendment of rules
   
34.08   Compensation of Mayor and Council members
   
34.09   Compensation of officers and employees
   
34.10   Quorum for conducting business
   
34.11   Fees and charges
   
34.12   Application of state laws
   
34.13   Background information
   
34.14   Special elections to fill certain vacancies
§ 34.01 CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held
at least once each month, at a date, time and place as established by the City
Council. Any regular meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next
following business day at the same time and place. All meetings, including
special and adjourned meetings, shall be held in the city hall unless the City
Council decides otherwise at a prior meeting, or meeting in the city hall is
impossible.
   (B)   Special meetings. The Mayor or any two members of the City Council may
call a special meeting of the City Council upon at least 24 hours written
notice to each member of the City Council. This notice shall be delivered
personally to each member or shall be left at the member’s usual place of
residence with some responsible person. Pursuant to M.S. Chapter 13D, as it may
be amended from time to time, written notice of any special meeting shall be
posted giving the date, time, place and purpose of the meeting at least three
days before the meeting. Written notice shall be mailed at least three days
before the meeting to anyone who has filed a written request for notice of
special meetings. In calculating the three days, if the last day falls on a
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the next regular business day shall be
counted as the third day.
   (C)   Emergency meetings. Notice of emergency meetings shall be given as
required by M.S. Chapter 13D, as it may be amended from time to time. An
emergency meeting is a meeting defined by M.S. Chapter 13D, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (D)   Initial meeting. At the first regular City Council meeting in January
of each year, the City Council shall:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose one of the Council members as Acting Mayor, who shall
perform the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor
from the city or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a
successor has been appointed and qualifies;
      (4)   Appoint officers and employees and members of departments, boards,
commissions and committees as may be necessary; and
      (5)   Establish and appoint Council members to those City Council
committees as are deemed appropriate for the efficient and orderly management
of the city.
   (E)   Public meetings. All City Council meetings, including special,
emergency and adjourned meetings and meetings of City Council committees, as
well as meetings of City Commissions and Boards, shall be conducted in
accordance with the Minnesota Open Meeting Law, M.S. Ch. 13D, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 34.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City
Council. In the absence of the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside. In the
absence of both, the City Administrator shall call the meeting to order and
shall preside until the Council members present at the meeting choose one of
their number to act temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce any
rules of procedure adopted by the City Council, and determine without debate,
subject to the final decision of the City Council on appeal, all questions of
procedure and order.
   (C)   Appeal procedure. Any member may appeal to the City Council a ruling
of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once
solely on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain the
ruling, but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion. The
appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present, including the presiding officer.
§ 34.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Generally. Minutes of each City Council meeting shall be kept by the
City Administrator or, in the City Administrator’s absence, by the Account
Clerk. In the absence of both, the presiding officer shall appoint a secretary
pro tem. Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be recorded in full in the
minutes if they appear in other permanent records of the City Administrator and
can be accurately identified from the description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten
form, shall be signed by the City Administrator, and copies thereof shall be
delivered to each Council member as soon as practicable after the meeting. At
the next regular City Council meeting following the delivery, approval of the
minutes shall be considered by the City Council. The minutes need not be read
aloud, but the presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections.
If there is no objection to a proposed addition or correction, it may be made
without a vote of the City Council. If there is an objection, the City Council
shall vote upon the addition or correction. If there are no additions or
corrections, the minutes shall stand approved.
§ 34.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the City Council shall convene at
the time and place appointed therefor. City Council business shall be conducted
in the following order unless varied by the presiding officer or by-laws or
other procedures adopted by Council resolution:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Approval of minutes;
      (4)   Consent agenda;
      (5)   Public hearings;
      (6)   Petitions, requests, and communications;
      (7)   Ordinances and resolutions;
      (8)   Reports of officers, boards, and committees;
      (9)   Unfinished business;
      (10)   New business;
      (11)   Miscellaneous; and
      (12)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Petitions and agenda. Petitions and other papers addressed to the City
Council shall be read or copies distributed by the City Administrator upon
presentation of the same to the City Council. All persons desiring to present
new business before the City Council shall inform the City Administrator
thereof at least 72 hours before new business is to be heard. The City
Administrator may prepare an agenda of the new business for submission to the
City Council on or before the time of the next regular meeting.
§ 34.05 VOTING.
   The votes of the Council members on any question may be taken in any manner
which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes of the
Council members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each Council member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except
for payments of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute. If any Council
member is present but does not vote, the minutes, as to his or her name, shall
be marked “Present-Not Voting.”
§ 34.06 ORDINANCE, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the City Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the City
Administrator, and filed by the City Administrator in the ordinance or
resolution book. Proof of publication of every ordinance shall be attached and
filed with the ordinance.
   (B)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall give
the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or code number of the
ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. Each ordinance or
resolution amending an existing ordinance or resolution or part thereof shall
set forth in full each amended section or subdivision as it will read with the
amendment.
§ 34.07 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by a two-thirds vote of the members
present and voting.
§ 34.08 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The compensation of the Mayor and the compensation of each Council member
shall be established from time to time by City Council ordinance pursuant to
M.S. § 415.11, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 34.09 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the city shall be compensated at a rate as
established from time to time by the City Council.
§ 34.10 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire City Council,
including the Mayor. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the City Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the City Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the City Council by
a majority vote of those present.
§ 34.11 FEES AND CHARGES.
   The City Council may enact an ordinance establishing those fees and charges
that are authorized by this code. Until that ordinance becomes effective, all
fees and charges established by ordinance or resolution prior to the adoption
of this code shall remain in effect. All fees and charges established by the
ordinance establishing fees and charges may be amended from time to time by
amendment of that ordinance.
§ 34.12 APPLICATION OF STATE LAWS.
   The provisions of the Government Data Practices Act, M.S. Chapter 13, the
Opening Meeting Law, M.S. Chapter 13D, and the laws relating to Gifts to Local
Officials, M.S. § 471.895, as these laws may be amended from time to time,
apply to the City Council and all boards and commissions of this city and their
members.
§ 34.13 BACKGROUND INFORMATION.
   (A)   Applicants for City employment.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota’s Computerized
Criminal History information for specified non-criminal purposes of employment
background checks for the positions described in division (2) below.
      (2)   Criminal history employment background investigations. Pursuant to
M.S. § 364.021, as it may be amended from time to time, with the exception of
the applicants for employment listed in M.S. § 364.09, as it may be amended
from time to time, the city shall not inquire into or consider the criminal
record or history of an applicant for public employment until the applicant has
been selected for an interview by the city or, if there is not an interview,
before a conditional offer of employment is made to the applicant. The City
Police Department or County Sheriff’s Department is hereby required, as the
exclusive entity within the city to do a criminal history background
investigation on the applicants for the following positions within the city,
unless the city’s hiring authority concludes that a background investigation is
not needed:
         (a)   All regular part-time or full-time employees of the city and
other positions that work with children or vulnerable adults.
         (b)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen employment applicants, the Police Department is authorized to
access data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions
Computerized Criminal History information system in accordance with BCA policy.
Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the Police
Department or County Sheriff’s Department under the care and custody of the
chief law enforcement official or his or her designee. A summary of the results
of the Computerized Criminal History data may be released by the Police
Department or County Sheriff’s Department to the hiring authority, including
the City Council, the City Administrator or other city staff involved in the
hiring process.
      (3)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department or County Sheriff’s Department by written
consent to undertake the investigation. The written consent must fully comply
with the provisions of M.S. Chapter 13, as it may be amended from time to time,
regarding the collection, maintenance and use of the information. Except for
the positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, as it may be amended from time to
time, the city will not reject an applicant for employment on the basis of the
applicant’s prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the
position of employment sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross
misdemeanor, or misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the
applicant’s request on this basis, the city shall notify the applicant in
writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
         (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
   (B)   Applicants for city licenses.
      (1)   The purpose and intent of this section is to establish regulations
that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota’s Computerized Criminal
History information for specified non-criminal purposes of licensing background
checks.
      (2)   The Police Department or County Sheriff’s Department is hereby
required, as the exclusive entity within the city, to do a criminal history
background investigation on the applicants and their employees for the
following licenses or permits within the city:
         City Licenses: Liquor Licenses, under
Chapter 110 of this code, and any applicants under
Chapters 111,
112,
113,
114, or
115 of this code.
      (3)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen license or permit applicants, the Police Department or Sheriff
Department is authorized to access data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of
Criminal Apprehensions Computerized Criminal History information system in
accordance with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be
maintained at the Police Department or Sheriff’s Department under the care and
custody of the chief law enforcement official or his or her designee. A summary
of the results of the Computerized Criminal History data may be released by the
Police Department to the licensing authority, including the City Council, the
City Administrator or other city staff involved in the license approval
process.
      (4)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department or Sheriff’s Department by written consent to
undertake the investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the
provisions of M.S. Chapter 13 as it may be amended from time to time regarding
the collection, maintenance and use of the information. Except for the
positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, as it may be amended from time to time,
the city will not reject an applicant for a license on the basis of the
applicant’s prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the
license sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or
misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request
on this basis, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license; and
         (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
§ 34.14 SPECIAL ELECTIONS TO FILL CERTAIN VACANCIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Braham, County of Isanti, State of Minnesota.
      GENERAL ELECTION. An election held at regular intervals on a day
determined by law or charter at which the voters of the state or any of its
subdivisions choose by ballot public officials or presidential electors.
      SPECIAL ELECTION. An election held at any time to fill vacancies in
public offices.
      VACANCY. A vacancy occurs for the reasons stated in M.S. § 351.02 or
other state law.
   (B)   Appointment to vacancy. Pursuant to M.S. § 412.02, subd. 2a, a person
shall be appointed to fill the vacancy until the special election is held and
the winner of the special election is qualified to take office.
   (C)   Special election timing. If a vacancy occurs and a special election to
fill the unexpired term is required pursuant to M.S. § 412.02, subd. 2a, and
there are more than 365 days until the next general election, then the special
election to fill the vacancy shall be held prior to the general election, but
no later than 180 days after the date of the vacancy.
(Ord. 34.14, passed 11-9-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWAGE
      
53.   GARBAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Unavailability of water or sewer
   
50.02   Application for service
   
50.03   Service connections, charges
   
50.04   Permit and bond
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 UNAVAILABILITY OF WATER OR SEWER.
   If either a public sewer or water supply system, or both, are not available,
an individual water supply or sewage disposal system, or both, conforming to
the published standards of the administrative authority, must be provided.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 50.02 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for a water and/or sewer service installation and service
shall be made to the City Administrator on forms prescribed by the City
Administrator and furnished by the city. By his or her signature, the applicant
shall agree to conform to this chapter, and to the rules and regulations that
may be established by the city as conditions for the use of water and/or sewer
service.
   (B)   Application for a service installation shall be made by the owner of
the property to be served, or by his or her agent. The applicant shall, at the
time of making application, pay to the city the amount of the fees required by
the installation of the service connection as provided for in city ordinance.
All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who personally, or by
his or her agent, shall apply for service.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 50.03 SERVICE CONNECTIONS, CHARGES.
   (A)   Permit and fee. No connection shall be made to the city water or
sanitary sewer system without a permit received from the City Administrator.
The fee for the permit shall be set by City Council resolution. These fees
shall be in addition to any fees required under divisions (B), (C), and (D)
below, and as amended.
   (B)   Connection fees. When a connection requires installation of a service
line from the main to the property, the applicant for a permit shall pay to the
city an amount not less than the cost of making the necessary connection, taps,
and installation of lines and appurtenances to provide service to the property
and the necessary street repairs.
   (C)   Certification. No permit shall be issued to connect with any water or
sanitary sewer main unless the applicant certifies to the truth of one of the
following, or payment required under division (D) below is made:
      (1)   The lot or tract to be served has been assessed for the cost of
construction of the main with which the connection is made, or that proceedings
for levying the assessment have been, or will be, commenced in due course;
      (2)   The cost of construction of the main has been paid by the developer
or builder platting the lot or tract; or
      (3)   If neither of divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above are true, a sum
equal to the portion of the cost of constructing the main, which would be
assessable against the lot or parcel, has been paid to the city.
   (D)   Additional connection fee. If no certificate can be issued, the
applicant shall pay an additional connection fee equal to the portion of the
cost of construction of the main attributable to the property upon the same
basis as any assessment previously levied against other property for the main.
The determination shall be made by the City Council. If no assessment has been
levied, the assessable cost shall be determined upon the basis of the uniform
charge which may have been, or will be, charged for similar connection with the
main. The amount shall be determined on the basis of the total assessable cost
of the main, allocated on the basis of frontage.
   (E)   Term of application. Applications for water access and sewer access
are good for a period of one year from the application date, with no
extensions. The water access charge (WAC) and the sewer access charge (SAC) are
forfeited to the city if connection is not made within a year from the
application date.
   (F)   Notice and hearing.
      (1)   Before the City Council makes a final determination of the
additional connection fee under division (D) above, it shall submit a written
notice to the applicant stating the amount of the proposed connection fee and
the basis of its calculation. The notice shall also state that the applicant
may, within ten days of receipt of the notice, demand a hearing on the matter.
If the applicant requests a hearing within that time, a hearing shall be held
on the matter by the City Council at least one week after the date on which the
request is made.
      (2)   If, as a result of the hearing, the City Council finds that the
proposed connection fee complies with the requirements of division (D) above,
it shall so determine. If it determines that the proposed fee is in excess of
the amount that would have been assessed had the property been assessed for the
main, or is in excess of the increase in market value attributable to
construction of the main, it shall make a determination of the proper amount of
the fee within the limits specified in division (D) above.
      (3)   No connection shall be made without payment of the connection fee
determined after the hearing, or determined after the expiration of ten days
from receipt of the notice when there has been no request within that time for
a hearing.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 50.04 PERMIT AND BOND.
   A permit for construction and connection of the extension between a building
drain and the sewer main or stub, herein called the building sewer, and/or
between the building water service pipes and a water main or stub, shall be
issued only upon application by the contractor licensed by the city who has
furnished a bond and proof of liability, and worker’s compensation insurance to
the City Administrator. The bond shall be in an amount as set by Council from
time to time, conditioned so as to secure compliance by the principal with the
provisions of this section, and to further secure performance by him or her of
all work undertaken within the city. Persons licensed and bonded with the state
as authorized to perform this work are exempt from city licensing. Adequate
proof of meeting state requirements and application for a city permit, which
provides for the city inspection of the water and sewer connections, are
required. Due to legislative changes requiring cities to locate water and sewer
lines within the public right-of-way, all contractors are required to run
tracing wires with the installation of water and/or sewer lines within the
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall willfully, and without authority from the city,
injure or remove any property under the control of the city, or interfere in
any way with the operation, construction, or repairing of the water or sewer
works, or who shall operate any valve or hydrant, or who shall unlawfully enter
any building of the water or sewer works shall, upon conviction, be punished by
imprisonment for a term not to exceed one year, or shall be fined in an amount
as set by Council from time to time.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-4-2010)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Purpose and establishment
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Accounts
   
51.04   Billing
   
51.05   Delinquent accounts
   
51.06   Applications, permits, fees, and connections
   
51.07   Installation of connections
   
51.08   Implied consent to rules, regulations, and rates
   
51.09   City not liable
   
51.10   Right to enter land
Regulations
   
51.20   Water meter regulations
   
51.21   Liability for repairs
   
51.22   Deficiency of water
   
51.23   Leak in service line
   
51.24   Private water not permitted in city system
   
51.25   Connection to municipal water system required
   
51.26   Individual connections to city water system
   
51.27   Other remedies
   
51.28   Severability
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PURPOSE AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The purpose of the city's public water utility is to provide safe
drinking water to the city and allow for a distribution system that permits
responsible residential, commercial, and industrial development. The public
water system is only sustainable when there are requirements to connect to the
system and set appropriate user fees to pay for all system costs.
   (B)   There is established a water utility of the city which shall be under
the supervision of the City Administrator. The water system as it is now
constituted or shall herewith be enlarged or extended shall be operated and
maintained under the provisions of this chapter, subject to the authority of
the City Council at any time to amend, alter, change, or repeal the same. The
Public Works Department shall have responsibility for the management,
maintenance, care, and operation of the water system of the city.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOUNT. A record of utility services used by each property and the periodic
costs for those utility services.
   AREA CHARGE. Fee set by ordinance paid at the time parcels are annexed and/
or subdivided (platted) into the city limits.
   CITY. The City of Braham, Counties of Isanti and Kanabec, State of
Minnesota.
   CITY UTILITY SYSTEM. Facilities used for providing public utility service
owned or operated by city or agency thereof, including sanitary sewer, storm
sewer, streetlight, and water service.
   PRIVATE SERVICE LINE/CONNECTION. The parcel or structure's connection(s)
from the city's water main into the water meter(s) for that parcel. PRIVATE
SERVICE LINES are owned and to be maintained by property owners.
   UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE. A schedule of all utility rates and charges set by
ordinance of the city.
   WATER ACCESS CHARGE. Fee set by ordinance paid at the time a new connection
to the city's water main is made.
   WATER MAIN. An underground transmission pipe that supplies water throughout
the city. Private service lines are connected to the city's WATER MAIN to
provide water to individual parcels. The WATER MAIN is owned and maintained by
the city.
   WATERWORKS SYSTEM. Water and sanitary sewer transmission pipes, lines,
fixtures, lift stations, meters and all necessary equipment and appurtenances
owned or operated by the city utility system for the purpose of providing water
and sanitary sewer services for public or private use.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.03 ACCOUNTS.
   All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who personally, or by
his or her authorized agent, applied for such service. A property owner shall
be liable for all utility services supplied to the property by the city,
whether he or she is occupying the property or not, and any unpaid charges
shall be a lien upon the property.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.04 BILLING.
   (A)   Water and sewer charges shall be billed on one bill for each meter
connection as applicable to each account. All charges shall be due upon receipt
and considered delinquent after the 14th day of the month. All bills shall
contain the title, address, and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing; the title, address and phone number shall be clearly visible and
easily readable. Bills shall be mailed to the customers on or before the fifth
day of each month and specify the water consumed, sewer charges, storm sewer
charges, and streetlight utility charges in accordance with the current fee
schedule set by ordinance of the City Council.
   (B)   Fees for municipal water and sewer service will be set from time to
time by the City Council by resolution or ordinance. Fees will include a basic
service charge and a charge based on volume of water used. The basic service
charge will be set by the City Council in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this section.
      (1)   Basic service charges for single family residence accounts. The
Council shall set a monthly basic service charge to be applied to all single-
family residence accounts (the "SFR unit basic service charge").
      (2)   Basic service charge for all other accounts. Each account that is
not a single-family residence account shall pay a basic service charge that is
a multiple of the SFR unit basic service charge. The multiple will be based on
the actual or projected volume of water usage and the annual system per unit
volume (ASPUV). The ASPUV will be set by the City Council in its fee ordinance
at an amount which, when applied in accordance with this section, will result
in the recovery of a fair and reasonable portion of the costs for the
construction, operation and maintenance of the water and sewer systems. The
multiple for each account will be determined by dividing the actual or
projected annual water usage for that account by the ASPUV, rounded to the
nearest whole number (with .5s rounded to the next higher whole number and no
number smaller than one). That multiple will be multiplied by the SFR unit
basic service charge to determine the monthly basic service charge for that
account.
         (a)   Annual determination of service charges. The basic service
charge will be set each year to be in effect for a one-year period, commencing
each January 1 based on water usage for the prior 12-month period from October
1 to September 30.
         (b)   Service charges for accounts with 12 months of meter readings.
If 12 months of meter readings are available, the multiple will be based on
actual annual water usage.
         (c)   Service charges for accounts with from three to 12 months of
meter readings. If fewer than 12 months, but at least three months, of meter
readings are available, the actual water usage shall be annualized and used to
determine the multiple for that account.
         (d)   Service charges for new accounts and accounts with changes in
use or structure. For new accounts and changes to the use or structure of the
account that require issuance of a building permit, the multiple shall be based
on projected water usage determined by the City Administrator or the
Administrator's designee after consideration of the square footage and use of
the structure and the water usage of other similar uses and structures in the
city. This multiple shall be used until the January following the first time
when there are at least three months of meter readings at full anticipated use,
as of September 30.
         (e)   Adjustment of unreasonable basic service charge. The City
Administrator or the Administrator's designee may increase or decrease the
basic service charge for accounts other than single-family residence accounts,
if the Administrator determines that the strict application of this results in
a substantially unreasonable basic service charge due to erroneous meter
readings; unbalanced or unrepresentative water usage during the applicable
meter reading period; or other extraordinary cause.
         (f)   Appeal. Decisions of the City Administrator or the City
Administrator's designee specifying a basic service charge based on projected
water use under division (A)(2)(d), or an increase of a basic service charge
under division (A)(2)(e) may be appealed to the City Council by written notice
of appeal to the City Administrator. Notice of appeal must be delivered to the
Administrator within 21 days of receiving the utility bill listing the basic
service charges for the account.
         (g)   Sprinkler accounts. Sprinkler accounts shall pay a basic service
charge at the monthly rate of one-twelfth of one annual SFR unit basic service
charge for each of the six months per year for which the city bills sprinkler
accounts.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.05 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Penalties. A past due payment penalty of 10%, with a minimum of $10,
shall be assessed on all accounts with a past due balance.
   (B)   Shut-off for nonpayment. Water shall be shut-off after a notice of
intent to shut-off has been mailed by first class mail and an opportunity for a
hearing before the City Council or an employee designated by the City Council
has been provided to the occupant and/or owner of the premises involved.
      (1)   If any bill is not paid by the due date listed on the bill, a
second notice will be hung on the door and shall state that if payment is not
made by the date listed on the door hanger, water service to the premises will
be shut off for nonpayment. If the utility customer provides the city with an
email address to be used for water/sewer billing notices, the city may email
all notices.
      (2)   The second notice (shut-off notice), which is the door hanger, must
contain the title, address, and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing; the title, address and phone number shall be clearly visible and
easily readable.
      (3)   The notice shall also state that the any occupant or owner has the
right to a hearing before the water service is shut off. The owner or occupant
may be represented in person and by counsel or any other person of his or her
choosing. The owner or occupant may present orally or in writing his or her
complaint to the city official in charge of utility billing. This official
shall be authorized to order continuation of the customer's service and shall
have the authority to adjust the customer's bill or enter into a mutually
agreeable payment plan. Payment arrangements are a mutually signed agreement
between the city and the utility customer. The payment arrangement needs to be
kept or the water will be shut off.
      (4)   If an occupant or owner requests a hearing, the water shall not be
shut off until the hearing process is complete.
      (5)   If a customer fails to pay and fails to request a hearing under
this part, service will be shut off at the time specified in the notice but not
until the charges have reached $200.
      (6)   If the customer's water is shut off by the city and the water is
turned back on by anyone other than a city employee without paying the utility
bill in full, the customer will be fined $500 per occurrence. This fine, if not
paid within 60 days, will be certified as an assessment for collection with
taxes. This matter can be sent to the city's prosecuting authority for criminal
charges of tampering with a municipal water supply.
   (C)   Certification for collection with taxes.
      (1)   Unpaid charges on sewer and water accounts shall not be certified
to the County Auditor until notice and an opportunity for a hearing have been
provided to the owner of the premises involved. The notice shall be sent by
first class mail and shall state that if payment is not made before the date
for certification, the entire amount unpaid plus penalties will be certified to
the County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected. The notice
shall also state that the occupant may, before such certification date, attend
or schedule a hearing on the matter to object to certification of unpaid
utility charges.
      (2)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this chapter, if any
person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this
chapter, the Council or any designated city official may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to procure payment.
      (3)   The city will have a maximum of 12 certification cycles per year.
Certifications will be scheduled and heard at the Council meeting which occurs
on the first Tuesday of each month. All city utility accounts, unless payment
arrangements have been made with the city or exempt for other legal reason,
which are delinquent and remain unpaid as of the certification cut-off date
shall have the balance on the account included in the preliminary certification
list.
   (D)   Optional payment before certification. The owner of the property shall
have the option of paying the balance due on the account until the date the
notice of the certification hearing is mailed. After the date the notice of
certification hearing is mailed, payments will still be accepted but will
include unpaid penalties.
   (E)   Hearing required. A hearing shall be held on the matter by the City
Council. Property owners with unpaid utility charges shall have the opportunity
to object to the certification of unpaid charges to be collected as taxes are
collected. If, after the hearing, the City Council finds that the amounts
claimed as delinquent are actually due and unpaid and that there is no legal
reason why the unpaid charges should not be certified for collection with taxes
in accordance with this chapter, the city may certify the unpaid charges to the
County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
      (1)   Hearing options. For each certification sustained, the property
owner shall have the following options after the hearing:
         (a)   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll
prior to the certification being delivered to the county for inclusion on the
tax rolls.
         (b)   To pay the certified charges as billed to them by Isanti or
Kanabec County on their property tax statement with a collection term of one
year.
      (2)   Delivery to county. Prior to December 1 of each year the certified
roll, minus any payments, shall be delivered to Isanti or Kanabec County.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022; Ord. 295, passed 12-6-2022; Ord. 310, passed 10-3-
2023)
§ 51.06 APPLICATIONS, PERMITS, FEES, AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall make any type of connection to
the water system without making an application therefor on a form provided by
the city and receiving a permit issued by the city for each purpose. The
application shall include the legal description of the property to be served,
the uses for which the connection is requested, the size of the service line to
be used, the full name and address of the owner, the time when the corporation
stop is to be inserted and shall show all other particulars necessary to the
full understanding of the subject. At the time of making such application there
shall be paid to the City Administrator fees which shall be set by the City
Council from time to time by resolution or ordinance for the following
purposes.
   (B)   (1)   No connection shall be made to the city's water system serving
any parcel within the city until the applicant has paid the water access charge
for connecting to the city's water system. This connection fee shall be in
addition to any fees or charges required under this chapter. The water access
charge is charged to parcels on which service lines have not been previously
run from the street mains to the property. The Council shall annually set the
water access charge in the city's fee ordinance.
      (2)   The City Council may also establish water districts and area
charges, which will be annually set by the city's fee ordinance and paid at the
time parcels are annexed into the city limits and subdivided (platted) for
development.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.07 INSTALLATION OF CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   General. All connections to the water system shall be performed under
the regulations of this chapter, all other city ordinances and applicable
statutes of the State of Minnesota, and requirements of the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Pipe requirements. Either copper, polyvinyl chloride (PVC), or ductile
iron service pipes may be used; lead-free brass fitting are required.
   (C)   Pressure and connections. All ductile iron, PVC, or copper pipe must
sustain a pressure of not less than 150 pounds to the square inch. No person,
except someone employed or authorized by the city, shall tap a distributing
main or pipe of the city water supply system or insert corporation stop
therein.
   (D)   Excavation permits required. No person shall excavate in a public
street to service a water main, unless given permit to do so by the city.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.08 IMPLIED CONSENT TO RULES, REGULATIONS AND RATES.
   Every person applying for water service, every owner of property for which
any such application is made, every person accepting water service and every
owner of property where such service is accepted subsequent to the passage of
this chapter shall be deemed upon making such application or accepting such
service to consent to all rules, regulations and rates as established by this
chapter and as may hereafter be set forth and adopted by the City Council by
resolution and ordinance.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.09 CITY NOT LIABLE.
   The city shall not be held liable at any time for any deficiency or failure
in the supply of water to the customer, whether the same be occasioned by
shutting off the water for repairs or connections or for any cause whatever.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.10 RIGHT TO ENTER LAND.
   (A)   The city, by any authorized employee or agent, shall have the right to
enter and be admitted to any lands and property in the city at all hours of the
day between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. for the purpose of inspection of materials,
plumbing work and fixtures of all kinds used by or in connection with the water
systems.
   (B)   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Administrator, peace officer, or any employee or official charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal shall be made as a result of the warrant. No
warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the warrant.
Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does not
depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (C)   Every licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or
entrance to the property by the City Administrator or any other authorized city
officer or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being
complied with and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit
the inspection of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination
of any and all permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice
shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
the property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner,
resident or other person in control of the property shall be given an
opportunity to appear before the City Administrator to object to the
termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the Administrator's decision
to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
REGULATIONS
§ 51.20 WATER METER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Before any water conveyed through the city water system shall be used
or utilized on the land or premises of any person, firm or corporation, there
shall first be installed a water meter that will accurately measure the water
consumed on the premises, except and unless such installation shall be exempted
by the city.
   (B)   All applicants for the installation, maintenance and repair of water
meters shall be made to the City Administrator, who shall proceed to comply
with such application within a reasonable time thereafter. All meters installed
shall be purchased from the city. Regulations for the cost of furnishing and
use of water meters shall be established by Council resolution or ordinance.
   (C)   For all new services, the water meter shall be purchased from the city
and installed by a licensed plumber. All meters, fittings, wiring and remote
reading devices shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of the
city.
   (D)   No person, firm, or corporation other than the city or its designee
shall install, maintain, or repair any water meter within the city limits.
Every water meter connected to the water system shall be sealed by or under the
direction of the City Administrator or Public Works Department, and no person,
firm or corporation shall break or remove such seal; provided, however, that a
plumber licensed to do business in the city may break such seal or remove such
meter if removed by a licensed plumber, such plumber shall notify the water
utility of the fact within 24 hours after the seal is broken or the meter is
removed. Whenever any seal attached to a water meter by or under the direction
of the City Administrator or water utility is found broken, the broken
condition of such seal shall be prima facie evidence that such seal was broken
contrary to the terms and provisions in violation of this chapter.
   (E)   All water meters connected to the water system shall be accessible to
the City Administrator or designee at all hours between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
of any business day and the refusal of admission by any owner or occupant of
any premises wherein a water meter is installed after such owner or occupant
has been notified that admission is desired for the purpose of inspecting a
water meter installed in the premises shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   (F)   Water meters shall be repaired or replaced from time to time as is
necessary to insure accurate measuring of the flow of water. The city shall
bear the cost of the repair or replacement, except that whenever a meter has
been damaged due to negligence on the part of persons other than the employees
of the city, the owner, occupant or user of the premises or such other person
desiring the use of the water shall reimburse the city for the expense of
repairing or replacing any such meter. Upon failure to reimburse the city
within a reasonable time and upon demand therefore, the water service and
supply to said premises may be shut off or discontinued as determined to be in
the best interest of the city.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, alter, bypass or
in any manner whatsoever interfere with the proper use and functioning of any
water meter within the city.
   (H)   Whenever a water user questions the accuracy of the meter and desires
that his or her meter be tested, he or she shall pay a fee, the amount of which
shall be established from time to time by Council resolution or ordinance, if
the meter tests accurate within a range of minus 3% to plus 1.5%. If it is not
accurate within this range, no charge will be made for testing and an
adjustment on the water bill will be made for the period of time that the meter
is assumed to be inaccurate, not to exceed two billing periods.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.21 LIABILITY FOR REPAIRS.
   After the initial connection has been made to the curb stop, the applicant,
owner, occupant, or user of the premises shall be liable for all repairs
required to any private service line necessary for connection of the premises
to the street main, including any necessary street repairs. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant, owner, occupant, or user to maintain the stop
box at such height as will ensure that it remains at the finished grade of the
land or property.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.22 DEFICIENCY OF WATER.
   (A)   General requirements. The city shall not be liable for any deficiency
or failure in the supply of water to consumers, whether occasioned by shutting
water off for the purpose of making repairs or connections or from any other
cause whatsoever. In case of fire, or alarm of fire, or in making repairs or
construction of new works, water may be shut off at such time and kept off as
long as necessary. In addition, the City Council or City Administrator shall
have the right to impose reasonable restrictions on the use of the city water
system in emergency situations.
   (B)   Irrigation and sprinkling restrictions. The following irrigation and
sprinkling restrictions shall apply to the use of the municipal water supply
system. This does not apply to those persons who are irrigating and sprinkling
from a private well.
      (1)   Cross-connections prohibited. No person shall construct, cause to
be constructed or operate any device which provides a cross connection between
the municipal water supply and a private well or the sewer system.
      (2)   Waste of water prohibited.
         (a)   Customers shall maintain taps, faucets, valves, and other water
facilities so that water waste is eliminated from seeps, dripping faucets, and
the like.
         (b)   No person shall waste water deliberately by allowing irrigation
or sprinkling water to run off onto the street or into the drains.
      (3)   Permission to use hydrant. No person shall open, close or tamper
with any fire hydrant except under the authorization of Braham Public Works
Department or, in case of fire or emergency, authorization of the Braham Fire
Department.
      (4)   Odd-even day sprinkling. Sprinkling will be curtailed from May 1
through August 31. Even numbered addresses can sprinkle only on even numbered
calendar days. Odd numbered addresses can sprinkle only on odd numbered
calendar days.
      (5)   Prohibited hours. There shall be no sprinkling in the City of
Braham by either even or odd numbered addresses, from the city water system,
between the hours of 12:00 noon and 6:00 p.m.
      (6)   Penalty. Violations of these watering restrictions carry a $50 fine
per day of violation, which shall be collected on the customer's water bill.
Unpaid fines may be collected as an assessment to the customer's property
taxes, per Minnesota law.
      (7)   Exemptions.
         (a)   Newly sodded or seeded yards will be exempt from the odd-even
restriction for a period of six weeks only. Over seeding or spot patching of
existing established yards can be watered every day with a hand-controlled
hose. No watering will be allowed between 12:00 noon and 6:00 p.m.
         (b)   Car washing, filling of children's swimming pools, and children
playing with a hose operated sprinkler or water toy are exempt from these
restrictions.
      (8)   Additional restrictions.
         (a)   Additional restrictions on the use of water during periods of
dry weather may be enacted by order of the City Administrator by publication in
the official newspaper of the city. When restricted, no person shall water for
the purpose of watering lawns, shrubs, trees, washing cars or structures. All
unnecessary use of water is prohibited for the duration of the imposed
restriction.
         (b)   If more drastic restrictions are necessary, orders may be issued
by the City Administrator to take necessary action to protect the water system
so that ample water may be available for health, sanitation, and fire
protection.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.23 LEAK IN SERVICE LINE.
   Any owner, occupant or user of a premises who shall discover a leak in a
service line to the premises shall notify the Public Works Department within 24
hours. Any water wasted due to failure of such person to comply with this
regulation shall be charged against the owner of such premises at the
established rate.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.24 PRIVATE WATER NOT PERMITTED IN CITY SYSTEM.
   Whenever any premises are connected to the city water system there shall be
maintained a complete physical separation between the city water supply system
and the private water supply system so that it is impossible to intentionally
or unintentionally allow any water produced by a private system to be
introduced in the supply line from the city system.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.25 CONNECTION TO MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   Where a parcel of property in the city has connected to the city water
system, no owner or occupant of the property or any other person shall:
      (1)   Construct any private water supply or well on the property; or
      (2)   Make use of any existing private water supply or well on the
property for human consumption or commercial purposes.
      (3)   There shall be no connection, either directly or indirectly, to the
plumbing system for service within the structure or to the city sanitary sewer
system. The parcels shall also be prohibited from disconnecting from the city
water system.
   (B)   Where a parcel of property in the city is using any private water
supply or well and where the city water system is available to a parcel of
property existing on the effective date of this chapter, the parcel of property
shall be required to connect to the city water system at such time the private
water supply or well is abandoned or is in need of replacement or at the point
of sale of the property. The private water supply or well shall not connect,
either directly or indirectly, to the city water system.
   (C)   All new residential, commercial, or industrial construction on a
parcel of property within the city where the municipal water system is
available to a parcel of property shall be required to connect to the city
water system.
   (D)   In cases of extreme hardship, an owner may request an exemption from
the City Council to construct a private well. For the purposes of this chapter,
HARDSHIP shall be defined as the city's water main being greater than 300 feet
away from the parcel. In allowing an exemption, the City Council may apply
special conditions as benefits the health and safety of the city. The hardship
will no longer exist once the water main is extended past the property and the
owner will be required to connect to the city's water public supply.
   (E)   Any person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.26 INDIVIDUAL CONNECTIONS TO CITY WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the term COMBINED
CONNECTION means a single connection to the municipal water system that serves:
      (1)   Two or more residential units; or
      (2)   Two or more commercial or industrial lots or separate parcels of
record.
   (B)   Combined connection after effective date. Unless permitted for a
hardship situation in accordance with division (E), no combined connection may
be made after the effective date of this section.
   (C)   Combined connections discontinued. Unless permitted to continue for a
hardship situation in accordance with division (E), combined connections in
existence on the effective date of this section shall be discontinued and
replaced with individual connections in accordance with this section.
      (1)   Owners of properties using a combined connection must replace such
connection with an individual connection within three years of the date of
notice from the city that replacement is required.
      (2)   Owners of the properties using a combined connection may use those
parts of the connection lying within their property or in the public right-of-
way between their property and the public water pipe, but must otherwise
disconnect from the common connection and construct a new individual
connection.
   (D)   Exceptions. The requirements of division (C) do not apply to:
      (1)   Multi-family residential rental properties where all units served
by a combined connection are under the same ownership; or
      (2)   Multiple industrial or commercial lots or parcels of land that are
adjacent, under the same ownership, and used for a single, unified business
enterprise; or
      (3)   Combined connections where there is not an individual service from
the main to the edge of the right-of-way available for each property using the
combined connection.
   (E)   Variances. The City Council may grant variances from the requirements
of division (C) upon a finding that there are unique or unusual physical
constraints on constructing an individual connection that make such connection
impractical from an engineering perspective.
   (F)   Notice. Notice to owners provided for in this section shall be by
first-class mail to the person or persons whom tax statements are to be sent
according to the records of Isanti or Kanabec County.
   (G)   Penalties. Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Violation of this section is also grounds for
termination of sewer or water service and the imposition of such penalties or
charges as may be imposed by City Council resolution.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.27 OTHER REMEDIES.
   In addition to any procedures or penalties provided for this chapter, if any
person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this
chapter, the Council or any designated city official may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to procure payment and or enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 51.28 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of this chapter is held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other sections or provisions which can be given force and effect without
invalidating the section or provision.
(Ord. 295, passed 2-1-2022)
CHAPTER 52: SEWAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Control by the Director
General Regulations
   
52.015   Unsanitary deposits prohibited
   
52.016   Prohibited discharges
   
52.017   Privies, septic tanks and cesspools prohibited
Building Sanitary Sewers and Connections
   
52.025   Connection to public sanitary sewer required
   
52.026   Tampering with wastewater facilities
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
52.035   Connection required
   
52.036   Permit required
   
52.037   Inspection
   
52.038   Compliance with standards
   
52.039   Connection to public sanitary sewer
   
52.040   Sanitary manner of operation required
   
52.041   Conflict with additional requirements
Buildings; Sewers and Connections
   
52.050   New connections/repairs to private sanitary sewer prohibited;
exception
   
52.051   Permit required
   
52.052   Permit application
   
52.053   Permit classes
   
52.054   Expenses to be paid by owner
   
52.055   Separate building sanitary sewer for each building
   
52.056   Existing building sanitary sewers
   
52.057   Compliance with standards
   
52.058   Elevation of building sewer
   
52.059   Prohibited connections
   
52.060   Standards
   
52.061   Connection and inspection
   
52.062   Barricades and lights
   
52.063   Licensed contractor to make connections
   
52.064   Individual connections to city sanitary sewer system
Use of Public Sanitary Sewers
   
52.070   Prohibited discharges
   
52.071   Limited discharges
   
52.072   Compliance
   
52.073   Pretreatment facilities
   
52.074   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.075   Sampling and measurement
   
52.076   Accidental discharges
   
52.077   Catch basin or waste trap
   
52.078   Repair to clogged, obstructed, broken or out of order private sanitary
sewers
   
52.079   Cost of repairs
   
52.080   Special agreements
Pretreatment
   
52.090   Pretreatment purpose and policy
   
52.091   General discharge prohibitions
   
52.092   Limitations on wastewater strength
   
52.093   Fees
   
52.094   General user reports
   
52.095   Mandatory discharge permits
   
52.096   Permit application
   
52.097   Permit conditions
   
52.098   Permit duration
   
52.099   Permit modifications
   
52.100   Permit transfer
   
52.101   Monitoring facilities
   
52.102   Inspection and sampling
   
52.103   Pretreatment
   
52.104   Confidential information
   
52.105   Sludges generated
   
52.106   Slug or accidental discharges
   
52.107   Revocation of permit
   
52.108   Notification of violation
   
52.109   Show cause hearing
   
52.110   Legal action
   
52.111   Annual publication
   
52.112   Appeal to the City Council
Sanitary Sewer Service Charge System
   
52.125   Establishment of sanitary sewer service charge system
   
52.126   Determination of sanitary sewer service charges
   
52.127   Sanitary Sewer Service Fund
   
52.128   Administration
   
52.129   Delinquent accounts
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.140   Right to enter
   
52.141   Right to obtain information
   
52.142   Severability
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the city's public sanitary sewer system is to facilitate the
flow of residential, commercial, and industrial effluent waste to a treatment
facility where the effluent is treated in accordance with the city's Minnesota
Pollution Discharge Elimination System (MPDES) permit. The public sanitary
sewer system allows for responsible residential, commercial, and industrial
development. The sanitary system is only sustainable when there are
requirements to connect to the system and set appropriate user fees to pay for
all system costs.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251, et seq.
   ADMINISTRATION COSTS. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of
the wastewater treatment works (for example, billing and associated bookkeeping
and accounting costs).
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The City of Braham, Minnesota or its representative thereof.
   BOD5 or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20 degrees C in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning three
feet outside the building wall. The building drain is part of the property
owner's private lines.
   BUILDING SANITARY SEWER. The private extension from the building drain to
the connection at the public sanitary sewer main or other place of disposal,
also referred to as a house connection or service connection.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Braham as
presently established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY when used herein may also be used to refer to the
City Council and its authorized representative.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any place of business which discharges normal domestic
strength sanitary waste as distinct from industrial wastewater.
   COMMERCIAL WASTEWATERS. Domestic wastewater emanating from a place of
business that does not exceed normal domestic strength.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat such pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentration permits imposed by the
permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and/or sampling of wastes.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
      (1)   A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment facilities for the
cost of repaying money bonded to construct the facilities.
      (2)   The city will have a maximum of 12 certification cycles per year.
Certifications will be scheduled and heard at a scheduled Council meeting. All
city utility accounts, unless payment arrangements have been made with the city
or exempt for other legal reason, which are delinquent and remain unpaid as of
the certification cut-off date shall have the balance on the account included
in the preliminary certification list.
   DIRECTOR. Shall refer to the City Administrator or their designee.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater greater than normal domestic waste as
defined in this section and not otherwise classified as an incompatible waste.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
man and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid, and solid wastes resulting from
industrial or manufacturing processes, trade, or business or from the
development, recovery, and processing of natural resources, as distinct from
residential or domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The liquid processing wastes from an industrial
manufacturing process, trade or business that exceeds normal domestic strength.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections, and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Users other than commercial, governmental, industrial,
or residential users, discharging primarily normal domestic strength wastewater
(for example, nonprofit organizations).
   INTERFERENCE.
      (1)   The inhibition or disruption of the city's wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES and/or SDS permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under § 405 of the Act or any regulations
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act, or more stringent state criteria applicable to
the method of disposal or use employed by the city.
      (2)   This term includes the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or disrupts the city's treatment processes or
operations; and
         (b)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the Clean
Water Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title II, more
commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and
including state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by such treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of such treatment facilities, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may logically
discharge into navigable waters of the United States, pursuant to §§ 402 and
405 of the Act.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or groundwater.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration or during which the only pollutant added
is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 220 mg/l, a total
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 240 mg/l, ammonia
nitrogen concentration not greater than 25 mg/l, and total phosphorus
concentration not greater than eight mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design life
of the treatment works, and at the level of performance for which the treatment
works were constructed. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The process of reducing the amount of pollutants, eliminating
pollutants or altering the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a
less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing
such pollutants into the city's wastewater disposal system. The reduction,
elimination or alteration may be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological
processes, process changes or other means, except as prohibited by §
52.108.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life of the treatment works
to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were designed and
constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facilities whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached and semi-detached housing, apartments, and
mobile homes and which discharges primarily normal domestic strength sanitary
wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including
charges for operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service and other sewer
related charges that are billed periodically to users of the city's wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SANITARY SEWER SERVICE CONNECTION. The parcel or structure's private
building drain and the associated piping that connects that drain to the city's
public sanitary sewer main.
   SANITARY SEWER FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income. Expenditure of the SANITARY SEWER FUND will
be for operation, maintenance, and replacement costs and to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment.
   SANITARY SEWER MAIN. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage
water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SANITARY SEWER MAIN. A pipe that collects wastewaters
from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   COMBINED SANITARY SEWER MAINS. A sanitary sewer pipe intended to
serve as a conduit for sanitary sewer and a storm sewer discharge. COMBINED
SEWER MAINS are prohibited.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SANITARY SEWER MAIN. A sanitary sewer pipe whose
primary purpose is to transport wastewater from collection sewers to a
treatment facility.
      (5)   PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER. A sanitary sewer pipe which is not owned
and maintained by a public authority.
      (6)   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. A sanitary sewer owned, maintained, and
controlled by a public authority.
      (7)   SANITARY SEWER. A system of pipes, lift stations, and treatment
facilities intended to carry only liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters which are not
admitted intentionally.
      (8)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A system of drains, pipes, catch
basins, and ditches intended to carry storm waters, surface runoff,
groundwater, sub-surface water, street wash water, drainage and unpolluted
water from any source.
   SHALL; MAY. The term SHALL is mandatory; the term MAY is permissive.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is wastewater.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility which has a discharge flow:
      (1)   In excess of 25,000 gallons per average work day;
      (2)   Exceeding 5% of the total flow received at the treatment facility
or loading received at the wastewater treatment facility; and
      (3)   (a)   Whose waste contains a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts
pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act; or
         (b)   Whose discharge has a significant effect, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal
system, the quality of sludge, the system's effluent quality or emissions
generated by the treatment system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection and/
or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions, and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system as
defined by M.S. § 115.01, subd. 5 as it may be amended from time to time.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM (SSTS). A private system for treating and
disposing of domestic sewage, usually from a single residence, by means of a
septic tank and a soil absorption system.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquids and which is removable
by a standard glass fiber filter.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,"
latest edition and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewer
and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city's wastewater disposal system.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user's
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is discharged into or permitted to
enter the city's wastewater disposal system. Also known as the spent water of a
community, sometimes referred to as sewage.
   WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, piping, equipment or processes owned or used
by the city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling
and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater,
or structures necessary to recycle or reuse water, including interceptor
sewers, outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment
and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water
supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works
including land which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used
for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, aquifers,
irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of
water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which
are contained within, flow through or border upon the state or any portion
thereof.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.003 CONTROL BY THE DIRECTOR.
   The Director shall have control and general supervision of all public
sanitary sewers and sanitary service connections in the city and shall be
responsible for administering the provisions of this chapter to the end that a
proper and efficient public sewer is maintained.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 52.015 UNSANITARY DEPOSITS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under jurisdiction, any human or animal excrement,
garbage, or objectionable waste.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.016 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the city's NPDES/SDS
permit.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.017 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND CESSPOOLS PROHIBITED.
   Except as provided hereinafter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUILDING SANITARY SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.025 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER REQUIRED.
   At all structures which wastewater is discharged from and which is situated
within the city and adjacent to any street, alley or right-of-way in which
there is now located, or may in the future be located, a public sanitary sewer
of the city shall be required, at the owner(s) expense, and a suitable sanitary
sewer service connection to the public sewer in accordance with provisions of
this code.
   (A)   Where a parcel of property in the city has connected to the city
sanitary sewer system, no owner or occupant of the property or any other person
shall:
      (1)   Construct a private subsurface sewage treatment systems (SSTS) on
the property; or
      (2)   Make use of any existing private SSTS on the property for sewage
disposal or commercial purposes.
   (B)   Where a parcel of property in the city is using a SSTS and where the
city's sanitary system is available to a parcel of property existing on the
effective date of this chapter, the parcel of property shall be required to
connect to the city's sanitary sewer system at such time the SSTS is in need of
replacement or at the point of sale of the property. The SSTS shall be properly
abandoned as required by Minn. Rules § 7080.2500 as may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   In cases of extreme hardship, an owner may request an exemption from
the City Council to construct a private SSTS. For the purposes of this chapter,
HARDSHIP shall be defined as the city's sanitary sewer main is greater than 300
feet away from the parcel. In allowing an exemption, the City Council may apply
special conditions as benefits the health and safety of the city. The hardship
will no longer exist once the sanitary sewer main is extended past the property
and the owner will be required to connect to the city's public sanitary sewer
main.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.026 TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 52.035 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
52.025, the building sanitary sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.036 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other
information as are deemed necessary to the city.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.037 INSPECTION.
   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city or its
authorized representative. The city or its representative shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the city when work is ready for final inspection
and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within four hours of the receipt of notice.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.038 COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of Minn. Rules Chapter 7080, as it
may be amended from time to time, entitled, "Individual Sewage Treatment System
Standards." No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.039 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER.
   (A)   At such time as a public sanitary sewer becomes available to a
property serviced by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection
shall be made to the public sanitary sewer within ten days in compliance with
this chapter, and within 30 days any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal systems shall be cleaned of sludge. The bottom
shall be broken to permit drainage and the tank or pit filled with suitable
material.
   (B)   For properties that are annexed into the city, the requirement to
connect to the public sanitary sewer will be when the private wastewater
disposal system fails. Annexed properties will not be permitted to repair
private wastewater disposal systems unless a hardship exists pursuant to §
52.025(C).
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.040 SANITARY MANNER OF OPERATION REQUIRED.
   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.041 CONFLICT WITH ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or the
Department of Health of the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
BUILDINGS; SEWER AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.050 NEW CONNECTIONS/REPAIRS TO PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTION.
   (A)   New connection(s) to the sanitary sewer system shall be permitted as
long as sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities,
including but not limited to capacity for flow, BOD5 and suspended solids, as
determined by the Director. The parcel's connection to the city's sanitary
sewer main is defined as sanitary sewer service connection (see definitions).
   (B)   After the initial service connection has been made to the sanitary
sewer main, the applicant, owner, or the occupant/user of the premises shall be
liable for all repairs required to any sanitary sewer service connection
including any necessary street repairs. It shall be the responsibility of the
property owner to keep the sanitary sewer service connection in working
condition.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.051 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sanitary sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.052 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or authorized agent and
the party employed to do the work and shall state the location, name of owner,
street number of the building to be connected and how occupied. No person shall
extend any private building drain or sanitary sewer service connection beyond
the limits of the building or property for which the sanitary sewer service
connection permit has been given.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.053 PERMIT CLASSES.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sanitary sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes (see
definitions).
   (B)   In either case, the application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or any other information considered pertinent in the judgement
of the city. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of
activity.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.054 EXPENSES TO BE PAID BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
sanitary sewer service connection shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s)
shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may be directly or
indirectly occasioned by the installation of the sanitary sewer service
connection.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.055 SEPARATE BUILDING SANITARY SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sanitary sewer shall be provided for in
every building.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.056 EXISTING BUILDING SANITARY SEWERS.
   Old building sanitary sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the Director or his or her
representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.057 COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS.
   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sanitary sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling of the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the State of Minnesota Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions
or in the amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall
apply.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.058 ELEVATION OF BUILDING SEWER.
   Whenever possible, the building sanitary sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sanitary
sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an
approved means and discharged to the building sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.059 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building
sanitary sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.060 STANDARDS.
   The connection of the sanitary sewer service connection into the public
sanitary sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State of Minnesota
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by proper
testing to prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city prior to
installation.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.061 CONNECTION AND INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the sanitary sewer service connection permit shall notify
the city when the connection is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sanitary sewer. The connection and inspection shall be made under the
supervision of the Director or authorized representative thereof.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.062 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   All excavations for sanitary sewer service connection installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.063 LICENSED CONTRACTOR TO MAKE CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make a sanitary sewer service connection with any public
sanitary sewer unless they have completed pipe laying training as prescribed by
the Commissioner of Labor and Industry and provide documentation of such
training or are a bonded, licensed plumber as required by M.S. § 326B.46 as may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.064 INDIVIDUAL CONNECTIONS TO CITY SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the term COMBINED
CONNECTION means a single connection to the municipal sanitary sewer system
that serves:
      (1)   Two or more residential units; or
      (2)   Two or more commercial or industrial lots or separate parcels of
record.
   (B)   Combined connection after effective date. Unless permitted for a
hardship situation in accordance with division (E), no combined connection may
be made after the effective date of this section.
   (C)   Combined connections discontinued. Unless permitted to continue for a
hardship situation in accordance with division (E), combined connections in
existence on the effective date of this section shall be discontinued and
replaced with individual connections in accordance with this section.
      (1)   Owners of properties using a combined connection must replace such
connection with an individual connection within three years of the date of
notice from the city that replacement is required.
      (2)   Owners of the properties using a combined connection may use those
parts of the connection lying within their property or in the public right-of-
way between their property and the public sanitary sewer pipe, but must
otherwise disconnect from the common connection and construct a new individual
connection.
   (D)   Exceptions. The requirements of division (C) do not apply to:
      (1)   Multi-family residential rental properties where all units served
by a combined connection are under the same ownership; or
      (2)   Multiple industrial or commercial lots or parcels of land that are
adjacent, under the same ownership, and used for a single, unified business
enterprise; or
      (3)   Combined connections where there is not an individual service from
the main to the edge of the right-of-way available for each property using the
combined connection.
   (E)   Variances. The Council may grant variances from the requirements of
division (C) upon a finding that there are unique or unusual physical
constraints on constructing an individual connection that make such connection
impractical from an engineering perspective.
   (F)   Notice. Notice to owners provided for in this section shall be by
certified mail to the person or persons whom tax statements are to be sent
according to the records of Isanti County.
   (G)   Penalties. Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Violation of this section is also grounds for
termination of sanitary sewer or water service and the imposition of such
penalties or charges as may be imposed by Council resolution.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
USE OF PUBLIC SANITARY SEWERS
§ 52.070 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
water such as storm water, groundwater, roof runoff, surface drainage or
noncontact cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such storm sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or
natural outlet on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a
discharge permit by the MPCA.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sanitary sewers:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include but are not limited to gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene,
toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the
flow in a sanitary sewer or other interference with the operation of the
wastewater treatment facilities, such as, but not limited to grease, garbage
with particles greater than one half inch in any dimension, animal guts or
tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastic, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel
or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system; and
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.071 LIMITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   The following described substances, materials, water, or wastes
shall be limited in discharges to city systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sanitary sewers, the wastewater treatment works
treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream and/or soil, vegetation and groundwater or will not otherwise
endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   The Director may set limitations lower than limitations established
in the regulations below if, in his or her opinion, such more severe
limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her
opinion as to the acceptability of wastes, the Director will give consideration
to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and
velocities in the sanitary sewers, materials of construction of the sanitary
sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, the city's NPDES and/or SDS
permit, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or
wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which stall not be violated
without approval of the Director are as follows:
         (a)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150 degrees F
(65.6 degrees C) or causing, individually or in combination with other
wastewater, the influent at the wastewater treatment plant to have a
temperature exceeding 104 degrees F (40 degrees C) or having heat in amounts
which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater treatment works
resulting in interference therein;
         (b)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees F and 150 degrees
F (0 degrees C and 65.6 degrees C) and any wastewater containing oil and grease
concentrations of mineral origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified
or not;
         (c)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute
a "slug" as defined in §
52.002;
         (d)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
52.002. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food on the
premises or when served by caterers;
         (e)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sanitary
sewers for their maintenance and repair;
         (f)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
         (g)   Noncontact cooling water or unpolluted storm water, storm
drainage or groundwater;
         (h)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in such
quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal system;
         (i)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Director in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (j)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to such
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works in excess of limitations set by the Director for
such materials: arsenic; cadmium; copper; cyanide; lead; mercury; nickel;
silver; total chromium; zinc; and phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by
city's wastewater treatment system; and
         (k)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the
wastewater disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or
ordinance of any regulatory agency or state or federal regulatory body.
         (l)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of §
52.079.
   (B)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sanitary sewers which contain substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (A) of this section and/or which in
the judgement of the Director may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
treatment facilities, processes or equipment, receiving waters and/or soil,
vegetation and groundwater or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sanitary sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act and all addendums
thereof;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating
and disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sanitary sewer service
charges.
      (2)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment
shall be made at the owner's expense and shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.072 COMPLIANCE.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or in any manner attempt to
dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in §§ 52.070 and 52.071 or
contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any state
requirements.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.073 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation at the expense of the owner(s).
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.074 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in §
52.071(A), any flammable wastes as specified in §
52.070(C), sand or other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All
interceptors shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s)
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured
materials by appropriate means and shall maintain a record of dates and means
of disposal which are subject to review by the Director. Any removal and
hauling of the collected materials not performed by the owner's personnel must
be performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.075 SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sanitary sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable
structure or control manhole with such necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sanitary sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of wastes. The structure shall be accessible and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city. The
structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by the owner to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (B)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sanitary sewer
carrying industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to
provide laboratory measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to
illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type, frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses to
be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry must
supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to
assure that compliance with federal, state and local standards are being met.
The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses to
the city at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the city. The owner
shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by
the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to
take measurements and samples for analysis by an independent laboratory.
   (C)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Director.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.076 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
sanitary sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner's expense.
   (B)   Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
this protection shall be submitted to the Director for review and approval
prior to construction of the facility. Review and approval of such plans and
operating procedures shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to
modify the user's facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   Users shall notify the Director immediately upon having a slug or
accidental discharge of substances or wastewater in violation of this chapter
to enable countermeasures to be taken by the Director to minimize damage to the
wastewater treatment works. The notification will not relieve any user of any
liability for any expense, loss or damage to the wastewater treatment system or
treatment process or for any fines imposed on the city on account thereof under
any state and federal law. Employers shall insure that all employees who may
cause or discover such a discharge are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.077 CATCH BASIN OR WASTE TRAP.
   (A)   No person having charge of any building or other premises which drains
into the public sanitary sewer shall permit any substance or matter which may
form a deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sanitary sewer.
Within 30 days after receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall
install a suitable and sufficient catch basin or waste trap or, if one already
exists, shall clean out, repair or alter the same and perform such other work
as the Director may deem necessary. Upon the owner's refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair or alter the same
after the period of 60 days, the Director may cause such work to be completed
at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
   (B)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing
facility shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times a
catch basin or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil,
dirt or any mineral deposit from entering the public sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.078 REPAIR TO CLOGGED, OBSTRUCTED, BROKEN OR OUT OF ORDER PRIVATE SANITARY
SEWERS.
   Whenever any sanitary sewer service connection becomes clogged, obstructed,
broken or out of order, detrimental to the use of the public sanitary sewer or
unfit for the purpose of drainage, the property owner shall repair or cause
such work to be done as the Director may direct. Each day after three days that
a person neglects or fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of
this section, and the Director may then cause the work to be done and recover
from the owner or agent the expense thereof by an action in the name of the
city.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.079 COST OF REPAIRS.
   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sanitary sewers or associated facilities damaged as a
result of the discharge of prohibited wastes by such person and may collect
such assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sanitary
sewer system or in any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.080 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern, providing that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and the city's NPDES and/or state disposal system permit limitations are not
violated.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
PRETREATMENT
§ 52.090 PRETREATMENT PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for discharges into
the city's wastewater disposal system and enables the city to comply with all
state and federal laws.
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are as follows:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
disposal system which will interfere with the operation of the system or the
use or disposal of the sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
disposal system which will pass through the system inadequately treated into
receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system; and
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system.
   (C)   This subchapter provides for the regulation of discharges into the
city's wastewater disposal system through the issuance of permits to certain
users and through enforcement of the general requirements for the other users,
authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires user reporting and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This subchapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the
city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city
wastewater disposal system. This subchapter is a supplement to §§
52.125 et seq., as amended. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Director
of the city wastewater disposal system shall administer, implement, and enforce
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.091 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   No user shall discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or indirectly,
any of the following described substances into the wastewater disposal system
or to any public sanitary sewer:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. At no time shall
two successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge
into the system or at any point in the system, be more than 5% nor any single
reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited
materials include but are not limited to gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene,
toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides;
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction to the
flow in a sanitary sewer or other interference with the operation of the
wastewater treatment facilities such as but not limited to grease, garbage with
particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastic, gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing
of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or having
any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system;
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307 (a) of the Act;
   (E)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either singly
or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public nuisance
or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sanitary sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
   (F)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions;
   (G)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violate any statute or any rule, regulation or ordinance
of any public agency or state or federal regulatory body;
   (H)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150 degrees F (65.6
degrees C) or causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater,
the influent at the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding
104 degrees F (40 degrees C);
   (I)   Any slug load, which shall mean any pollutant, including oxygen
demanding pollutants (BOD and the like), released in a discharge of such volume
or strength as to cause inhibition or disruption in the wastewater disposal
system. In no case shall a slug load have a flow rate or contain concentrations
or quantities of pollutants that exceed for any time period longer than 15
minutes more than five times the average 24 hour concentrations, quantities or
flow of the user during normal operations;
   (J)   Noncontact cooling water or unpolluted storm or groundwater;
   (K)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 150 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees F and 150 degrees
F (0 degrees C and 65.6 degrees C) and any wastewater containing oil and grease
concentrations of mineral origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified
or not;
   (L)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as but not limited
to Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved solids (such
as, but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in such quantities
that they would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal system;
   (M)   Any wastewater having a BOD5 greater than 650 mg/l or having a
suspended solids concentration of greater than 350 mg/l, unless otherwise
permitted by the city; and
   (N)   In addition to these prohibitions, no user shall discharge to any
public sanitary sewer any discharge which will cause interference with the
wastewater disposal system.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.092 LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   (A)   National categorical pretreatment standards. National categorical
pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) pursuant to the Act shall be met by all users which are subject to such
standards in any instance where they are more stringent than the limitations in
this subchapter.
   (B)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall be met by all users which are subject to such standards in any instance
in which they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this or any other applicable chapter.
   (C)   City's right of revision. The city reserves the right to establish by
ordinance more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the
wastewater disposal system if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives
presented in §
52.090.
   (D)   Dilution. No user shall increase the use of process water or in any
way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained herein,
contained in the national categorical pretreatment standards or contained in
any state requirements.
   (E)   Accidental discharges.
      (1)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user's own cost and expense.
Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedure to provide this
protection shall be submitted to the Director for review and shall be approved
by the Director before construction of the facility.
      (2)   Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall
not relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to modify the user's
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users shall
notify the Director immediately upon having a slug or accidental discharge of
substances or wastewater in violation of this chapter in order to enable
countermeasures to be taken by the Director to minimize damage to the
wastewater disposal system and the receiving waters.
      (3)   The notification will not relieve users of liability for any
expense, loss or damage to the wastewater disposal system or treatment process
or for any fines imposed on the city on account thereof under any state or
federal law. A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a slug
or accidental discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may
cause or discover such a discharge are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.093 FEES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide for the recovery
of costs from users of the city's wastewater disposal system for the
implementation of the program established herein. The applicable charges or
fees shall be set forth in the city's schedule of charges and fees to be
prepared, from time to time, by the Director and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Charges and fees. The City Council shall adopt charges and fees which
may include:
      (1)   Area charges: fee set by ordinance paid at the time parcels are
annexed and/or subdivided (platted) into the city limits;
      (2)   Sanitary sewer access charges: fee set by ordinance paid at the
time a new connection to the city's sanitary sewer main is made;
      (3)    Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Appeal fees; and
      (6)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.094 GENERAL USER REPORTS.
   The Director may require that any person discharging or proposing to
discharge wastewater to the wastewater disposal system file a periodic
discharge report. The discharge report may include but not be limited to nature
of process, rates of flow, mass discharge rate, raw material and production
quantities, hours of operation, number and classification of employees,
compliance status with any state or federal pretreatment standards or other
information which relates to the generation of waste, including wastewater
constituents and concentrations in the wastewater discharge. The reports may
also include sludge disposal practices and the chemical constituents and
quantity of liquid or gaseous materials stored on site, even though they may
not normally be discharged. At a minimum, a summary of such data indicating
each industrial user's compliance with this subchapter shall be prepared
quarterly and submitted to the Director. In addition to discharge reports, the
Director may require information in the form of wastewater discharge permit
applications, self-monitoring reports and compliance schedules.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.095 MANDATORY DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   All industries proposing to connect or to commence a new discharge to the
wastewater disposal system shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before
connecting to or discharging into the wastewater disposal system if the
discharge would result in the industry being classified as a significant
industrial user. All existing significant industrial users or industrial users
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards under § 307(b) and (c)
of the Act connected to or discharging into the wastewater disposal system
shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the effective
date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.096 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall complete
and file with the Director an application in the form prescribed by the
Director and accompanied by an initial fee of $300. Existing users shall apply
for a wastewater discharge permit within 30 days after the effective date of
this subchapter, and proposed new users shall apply at least 180 days prior to
connecting or discharging to the wastewater disposal system. In support of the
application, the user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for
evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and location (if different from the address);
      (2)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics, including but not
limited to those governed by this subchapter, as determined by a reliable
analytical laboratory; sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance
with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to § 304 (g) of the Act and
contained in 40 CFR 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of discharge;
      (5)   Average daily and 30 minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variation, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sanitary sewers, sanitary sewer connection and appurtenances by
size, location and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged, including
sludges, floats, skimmings and the like;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any city, state or national pretreatment
standards; and for an existing discharge, a statement regarding whether or not
the pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance and/or additional pretreatment is
required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards. If additional
operation and maintenance and/or pretreatment will be required, a proposed
schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for the
applicable pretreatment standard. The schedule shall contain increments of
progress in the form of dates for the commencement and completion of major
events leading to the construction and operation of additional pretreatment
required for the user to meet the applicable pretreatment standard. No
increment shall exceed nine months in length, and progress reports concerning
each increment shall be submitted within 14 days following each increment date;
      (9)   Each product produced by type, amount and rate of production;
      (10)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (11)   Number of full and part time employees and hours of work; and
      (12)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Director to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   The Director will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to
terms and conditions provided herein.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.097 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the city.
   (B)   Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the wastewater disposal system;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Requirements for installation, operation and maintenance of
pretreatment facilities;
      (6)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency and method of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
      (7)   Compliance schedules;
      (8)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (9)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the Director, but in no case less than
three years, and affording Director access thereto;
      (10)   Requirements for notification to and acceptance by the Director of
any new introduction of wastewater constituents of any substantial change in
the volume or character of the wastewater treatment system;
      (11)   Requirements for notification of slug or accidental discharges as
provided by §
52.106 and reporting of permit violations;
      (12)   Requirements for disposal of sludges, floats, skimmings, and the
like; and
      (13)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.098 PERMIT DURATION.
   (A)   Permits shall contain sanitary sewer service rates for the term of the
permit. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum of 180 days prior
to the expiration of the user's existing permit. The terms and conditions of
the permit may be subject to modification by the Director during the term of
the permit as limitation or requirements as identified in this subchapter are
modified or either just cause exists. The user shall be informed of any
proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior to the effective
date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   (B)   The expiration of discharge permits will be determined on a case by
case basis and included in the permit issuance.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.099 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Permits issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be modified
by the city if the actual discharge is found to differ substantially in
quantity, constituents or effects from the discharge which was permitted. The
user with an existing wastewater discharge permit may request modification of
the permit to change wastewater discharge limitations, monitoring requirements
or other requirements. Requests for modifications which would allow increased
loading to the wastewater disposal system shall be made at least 180 days prior
to the date of the proposed change.
   (B)   The user with an existing wastewater discharge permit shall submit to
the Director within 180 days after the promulgation of any applicable national
categorical pretreatment standard the information required by §
52.097. If the information previously submitted in an application is still
current and adequate, only a letter from the user certifying such is required.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.100 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or changed
operation without the approval of the Director. Any succeeding owner or user
shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.101 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sanitary sewer and/or internal drainage systems
shall be provided and operated by all industrial users. The monitoring facility
should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the Director may, when
such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow
the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and
located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and compositing of samples for analysis. The
facility and sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the Director's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the Director, unless a time extension is otherwise
granted by the Director.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.102 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Director shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of this subchapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the Director ready access to all reasonable times to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination or in the performance of any of their duties. The Director, MPCA
and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user's property such devices as
are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or
metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force which would
require proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises,
the user shall make necessary arrangements with any security guards so that
upon presentation of suitable identification, the Director, MPCA and EPA will
be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.103 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this subchapter and shall achieve compliance with all national
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user's expense.
Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the Director for review and shall be acceptable to the
Director before construction of the facility. The review of such plan and
operating procedure will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
Director under the provisions of this subchapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
acceptable to the Director prior to the user's initiation of the changes.
   (B)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available by the Director to officials of the EPA or MPCA upon request.
   (C)   Any user subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard,
after the compliance data of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of the
commencement of a new discharge to the wastewater disposal system, shall submit
to the Director during the months of June and December, unless required more
frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the Director, a report indicating
the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by
such pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional operation and maintenance and/or
pretreatment is necessary to bring the facility into compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be
signed by the user and certified to by a qualified professional.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.104 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from applications, permits,
monitoring programs and inspections shall be available to the public or other
government agencies without restriction unless the user specifically requests
and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that the release
of such information would divulge information, processes or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, and until such time
as the information is determined not to be confidential, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this subchapter, the NPDES
permit, state disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment programs;
provided, however, that such portions of a report shall be available for use by
the state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics will not be recognized as confidential information. Information
accepted by the Director as confidential shall not be transmitted to any
governmental agency or to the general public by the Director until and unless a
ten-day notification is given to the user.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.105 SLUDGES GENERATED.
   Sludges, floats, skimmings, and the like generated by an industrial or
commercial pretreatment system shall not be placed into the city's wastewater
disposal system. Such sludges shall be contained, transported, and disposed of
in accordance with all federal, state, and local regulations.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.106 SLUG OR ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service of a user or
a wastewater discharge permit after informal notice to the discharger when
suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the Director, in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to the
environment or to the wastewater disposal system or would cause the city to
violate any condition of its NPDES or state disposal system permit.
   (B)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop the discharge. In
the event of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily with the suspension
order, the Director shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including
immediate severance of the sanitary sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the wastewater disposal system or endangerment to any individuals.
The Director shall reinstate the wastewater discharge permit and/or the
wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying
discharge. A detailed written statement submitted by the user describing the
causes of the slug or accidental discharge and the measures taken to prevent
any future occurrence shall be submitted to the Director within 75 days of the
date of occurrence.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.107 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   In accordance with the procedures of this subchapter, the Director may
revoke the permit of any user which fails to factually report the wastewater
constituents and characteristics of his or her discharge; which fails to report
significant changes in wastewater constituents or characteristics; which
refuses reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of inspection
or monitoring or for violation of conditions of its permit, this subchapter or
applicable state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.108 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Director finds that any person has violated or is violating
this subchapter, a wastewater discharge permit or any prohibition, limitation
or requirement contained herein, the Director may serve upon such person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the date
of the notice, unless a shorter time frame is necessary due to the nature of
the violation, a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be
submitted to the city by the user.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.109 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   Notice of hearing. If the violation is not corrected by timely
compliance, the Director may order any user which causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to show cause before the City Council why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the City Council
regarding the violation, the reason why the action is to be taken, the proposed
enforcement action and directing the user to show cause before the City Council
why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the
hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return
receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made on
any agent or officer of a corporation.
   (B)   Hearing officials. The City Council may itself conduct the hearing and
take the evidence or may designate any of its members or any officer or
employee of the city to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the City Council notice of hearings requesting
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the protection of evidence
relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the City
Council for action thereon.
   (C)   Transcripts. At any hearing held pursuant to this subchapter,
testimony taken must be under oath and recorded. The transcript, so recorded,
will be made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing
upon payment of the usual charges therefor.
   (D)   Issuance of orders. After the City Council has reviewed the evidence,
it may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that,
following a specified time period, the sanitary sewer service be discontinued
unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances
shall have been installed or existing treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives as
are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.110 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the
city's wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements or any order of the
city, the City Attorney may, following the authorization of such action by the
City Council, commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.111 ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   A list of the users which were significantly violating applicable
pretreatment requirements or national categorical pretreatment standards during
the 12 previous months shall be annually published by the city in a local
newspaper. The notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken
against the user(s) during the same 12 months. For the purposes of this
provision, significant violations would be those violations which remain
uncorrected 45 days after notification of noncompliance; which are part of a
pattern of noncompliance over a 12 month period; or which involve a failure to
accurately report noncompliance.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.112 APPEAL TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any interested party shall have the right to request in writing an
interpretation or ruling on any matter covered by this subchapter and shall be
entitled to a written reply from the city.
   (B)   Any decision of the Director in the enforcement of this subchapter may
be appealed to the City Council by filing a written petition with the City
Administrator within 30 days of the Director's ruling. The petition shall
specify in detail the matter or matters involved and every ground or basis on
which objections are made. The petition shall show the names, addresses and
telephone numbers of all objectors and their attorney at law or spokesperson.
The filing of a petition in accordance with the requirements herein shall stay
all proceedings unless the Director shall file within 72 hours after the filing
of a petition a certificate stating that a stay would cause peril to life or
property or specifying other good reason.
   (C)   The City Council shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the
petition or appeal and give due notice of the time and place of the hearing to
parties named in the petition as attorney or spokesperson. The hearing shall be
open to the public. Petitioners shall be given full opportunity to present
evidence in support of their petition after which the Director may present
evidence in support of his decision. The City Council shall decide the appeal
within a reasonable time and notify the attorney or spokesperson. The minutes
of the Council shall constitute the official record of the petition, hearing
and decision. Any party desiring a transcript of the proceedings shall furnish
a qualified court reporter at their own expense.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
SANITARY SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 52.125 ESTABLISHMENT OF SANITARY SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city establishes a sanitary sewer service charge system (SSCS)
whereby all revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities
will be used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation,
maintenance, replacement, and debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater
treatment facility shall be determined and fixed in a sanitary sewer service
charge system developed according to the provisions of this subchapter. The
sanitary sewer service charge system shall be adopted by ordinance upon
enactment of this subchapter, shall be published in the local newspaper and
shall be effective upon publication. Subsequent changes in sanitary sewer
service rates and charges shall be adopted by Council resolution or ordinance
and shall be published in the local newspaper.
   (C)   Revenues collected for sanitary sewer service shall be deposited in a
separate fund known as "The Sanitary Sewer Fund." Income from revenues
collected will be expended to offset the cost of operation, maintenance, and
equipment replacement for the facility and to retire the debt for capital
expenditure.
   (D)   Sanitary sewer service charges and the Sanitary Sewer Fund will be
administrated in accordance with the provisions of §
52.128.
   (E)   Rates for significant industrial users (SIU) sanitary sewer services
shall be calculated based upon their impact on the plant's capacity and
treatment systems (TSS, BOD, phosphorous, ammonia, and the like) as outlined in
their discharge permit.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.126 DETERMINATION OF SANITARY SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   User classes.
      (1)   Users of the city wastewater treatment works shall be identified as
belonging to one of the following user classes:
         (a)   Residential/commercial/institutional; or
         (b)   Significant industrial user (SIU).
      (2)   The allocation of users to these categories for the purpose of
assessing user charges and debt service charges shall be the responsibility of
the Director of Finance and City Administrator. Allocation of users to user
classes shall be based on the substantive intent of the definitions of these
classes contained herein.
   (B)   Operation, maintenance, debt service, capital equipment, and
replacement costs. The user shall pay operation, maintenance, and replacement
costs in proportion to the user's proportionate contribution of wastewater
flows and loadings to the treatment plant. The Director of Finance will
recommend sanitary sewer base rates and flow rates on an annual basis to City
Council giving consideration to the Sanitary Sewer Fund's operating, capital,
debt service, and forecasted capital improvement plan. The Sanitary Sewer Fund
is to be entirely self-supporting through the payment of base rates and flow
rates. Base rates will cover all capital costs, debt service, and forecasted
capital improvement plan. Flow rates will be set to recover annual operating
costs for the sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   User charges for normal domestic strength users. Calculating billable
flows and loadings.
      (1)   The billable amount of flow will be calculated from the volume of
metered water usage. The monthly billable flow shall be equal to monthly
metered water usage rounded to the nearest 1,000 gallon mark.
      (2)   For users discharging NDSW but not connected to the city water
system, the billable amount of flow will be calculated from the volume of their
well's metered water usage or, at the discretion of the city, from the
measurement of effluent flow at the user's point of discharge. Measurements
shall be according to a regular program prescribed by the city. The city may
require a flow meter to be installed to measure the sanitary sewer flow for
accurate billing.
   (D)   Meters. The city may, at its discretion, require nonresidential users
to install wastewater flow meters or such additional water meters as may be
necessary to determine wastewater volume. The city may require residential
connections to install water meters for the purpose of determining wastewater
volume. When so required, such meters shall be of a type approved by the city,
equipped with remote registering recorders and located at an accessible site on
the owner's property.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.127 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   The city has established a "Sanitary Sewer Enterprise Fund" as a fund to
receive all revenues generated by the sanitary sewer service charge system and
all other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement, debt
service, capital, and construction of the wastewater treatment works, including
taxes, special charges, fees and assessments intended to retire construction
debt. All Sanitary Sewer Enterprise Fund accounts shall be established in
accordance Minnesota Accounting and Financial Reporting Standards as published
by the Office of State Auditor.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.128 ADMINISTRATION.
   The sanitary sewer service charge system and Sanitary Sewer Service Fund
shall be administrated according to the following provisions.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall maintain a proper system of accounts suitable for
determining the operation and maintenance, equipment replacement and debt
retirement costs of the sanitary sewer system and shall furnish the City
Council with a report of such costs annually.
      (2)   The City Council shall annually determine whether or not sufficient
revenue is being generated for the effective operation, maintenance,
replacement and management of the treatment works and whether sufficient
revenue is being generated for debt retirement. The Council will also determine
whether the user charges are distributed proportionately to each user.
      (3)   The city shall thereafter, but not later than the end of the year,
reassess and as necessary revise the sanitary sewer service charge system then
in use to insure the proportionality of the user charges and to insure the
sufficiency of funds to maintain the capacity and performance to which the
facilities were constructed and to retire the construction debt.
   (B)   In accordance with federal and state requirements each user will be
notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the
sanitary sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance, and
replacement.
   (C)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the city shall be
responsible for maintaining all records necessary to document compliance with
the sewer service charge system adopted.
   (D)   Water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, and street light utility charges
shall be billed on one bill as applicable to each account. All charges shall be
due upon receipt and considered delinquent after the 15th day of the month. All
bills shall contain the title, address, and telephone number of the official in
charge of billing; the title, address and phone number shall be clearly visible
and easily readable. Bills shall be mailed to the customers on or before the
fifth day of each month and specify the water consumed, sanitary sewer charges,
storm sewer charges, and street light utility charges in accordance with the
current fee schedule set by ordinance of the City Council.
   (E)   All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who personally,
or by his or her authorized agent, applied for such service. The property owner
shall be liable for all utility services supplied to the property by the city,
whether he or she is occupying the property or not, and any unpaid charges
shall be a lien upon the property.
   (F)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxics or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs and sludge disposal shall be borne by the discharger(s) of the wastes
at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.129 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Penalties. A late payment penalty of 5%, with a minimum of $5, shall
be assessed on all accounts with a past due balance.
   (B)   Shut-off for nonpayment. Water/sewer shall be shut-off after a notice
of intent to shut-off has been mailed by first class mail and an opportunity
for a hearing before the City Council or an employee designated by the City
Council have provided to the occupant and owner of the premises involved.
      (1)   If any bill is not paid by the due date listed on the bill, a
second notice stating the balance due will be mailed by first class mail and
shall state that if payment is not made within ten days of the mailing of the
second bill, water/sewer service to the premises will be shut off for
nonpayment.
      (2)   The second notice (shut-off notice) must contain the title,
address, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing; the title,
address and phone number shall be clearly visible and easily readable.
      (3)   The notice shall also state that the any occupant or owner has the
right to a hearing before the water/sewer service is shut off. The owner or
occupant may be represented in person and by counsel or any other person of his
or her choosing. The owner or occupant may present orally or in writing his or
her complaint to the city official in charge of utility billing. This official
shall be authorized to order continuation of the customer's service and shall
have the authority to adjust the customer's bill or enter into a mutually
agreeable payment plan.
      (4)   If an occupant or owner requests a hearing, the water/sewer shall
not be shut off until the hearing process is complete.
      (5)   If a customer fails to pay and fails to request a hearing under
this part, service will be shut off at the time specified in the notice but not
until the charges have reached $200.
      (6)   If the customer's water/sewer is shut off by the city and is turned
back on by anyone other than a city employee without paying the utility bill in
full, they will be fined $500 per occurrence. This fine if not paid will be
certified for collection with taxes. This matter can also be referred to the
city's prosecuting authority for criminal charges for tampering with a
municipal sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   Certification for collection with taxes.
      (1)   Unpaid charges on sewer accounts shall not be certified to the
County Auditor until notice and an opportunity for a hearing have been provided
to the owner of the premises involved. The notice shall be sent by first class
mail and shall state that if payment is not made before the date for
certification, the entire amount unpaid plus penalties will be certified to the
County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected. The notice shall
also state that the occupant may, before such certification date, attend or
schedule a hearing on the matter to object to certification of unpaid utility
charges.
      (2)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this subchapter if any
person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision or this
subchapter, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to procure payment.
      (3)   The city will have a maximum of 12 certification cycles per year.
Certifications will be scheduled and heard at the Council meeting which occurs
on the third Monday of each month. All city utility accounts, unless payment
arrangements have been made with the city or exempt for other legal reason,
which are delinquent and remain unpaid as of the certification cut-off date
shall have the balance on the account included in the preliminary certification
list.
   (D)   Optional payment before certification. The owner of the property shall
have the option of paying the balance due on the account until the date the
notice of the certification hearing is mailed. After the date the notice of
certification hearing is mailed, payments will still be accepted but will
include unpaid penalties.
   (E)   Hearing required. A hearing shall be held on the matter by the City
Council. Property owners with unpaid utility charges shall have the opportunity
to object to the certification of unpaid charges to be collected as taxes are
collected. If, after the hearing, the City Council finds that the amounts
claimed as delinquent are actually due and unpaid and that there is no legal
reason why the unpaid charges should not be certified for collection with taxes
in accordance with this subchapter, the city may certify the unpaid charges to
the County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
      (1)   Hearing options. For each certification sustained, the property
owner shall have the following options after the hearing:
         (a)   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll
prior to the certification being delivered to the county for inclusion on the
tax rolls; and
         (b)   To pay the certified charges as billed to them by Isanti County
on their property tax statement with a collection term of one year.
      (2)   Delivery to county. Prior to December 1 of each year the certified
roll, minus any payments, shall be delivered to Isanti County.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.140 RIGHT TO ENTER.
   (A)   The Director or other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city's sanitary sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Director or other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.141 RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION.
   The Director or other duly authorized employees are authorized to obtain
information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the
type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system. An industry
may withhold information considered confidential; however, the industry must
establish that the revelation to the public of the information in question
might result in an advantage to competitors.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 52.142 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of this chapter is held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other sections or provisions which can be given force and effect without
invalidating the section or provision.
(Ord. 297, passed 3-1-2022)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
53.01   Garbage disposal
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   General regulations
   
53.04   Disposal required
   
53.05   Containers
   
53.06   Licensed collection
   
53.07   Policy of rates
   
53.08   Violations
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 GARBAGE DISPOSAL.
   All commercial users of garbage disposal must procure a special permit from
the City Council. The rate to be charged for the permit, and the rate to be
charged for commercial garbage disposal use, shall be established by the City
Council.
(Ord. 265, passed 5-4-2010)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Organic waste resulting from the preparation of food, and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   RECYCLABLES. Paper, plastic, tin cans, aluminum, motor oil, glass, and other
metal goods, each separated or otherwise prepared so as to be acceptable to the
recycling center where they are to be deposited.
   RECYCLING CENTER. Premises within the city approved by the Council for
receipt, storage, and process of recyclables, and premises outside the city
approved as a RECYCLING CENTER by the local governmental unit having
jurisdiction.
   REFUSE. Garbage and rubbish but shall not include sewage.
   RUBBISH. Non-garbage solid waste such as tin cans, glass, paper, sweepings,
clippings, ash, and the like.
(Ord. 109, passed 5-5-1986)
§ 53.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on any premises is a nuisance
and prohibited.
   (B)   No person shall place any refuse in any street, alley, or public place
or upon private property except in proper containers for collection or other
lawful disposal. No person shall throw or deposit refuse in any stream or other
body of water.
   (C)   No person shall deposit, anywhere within the city, any refuse in a
manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements upon any public
place or any other premises within the city.
   (D)   No person shall bury any refuse in the city except in an approved
sanitary landfill. This division (D) does not prevent anyone from composting
leaves, grass clippings, and other easily biodegradable, non-poisonous garbage
on his or her own premises. Composting of garbage shall be allowed only when
application has been made to, and approval granted, by the Council on a finding
that composting will be done in a rodent proof structure and in an otherwise
sanitary manner.
(Ord. 109, passed 5-5-1986) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   Every person shall, in a sanitary manner, store and dispose of refuse that
may accumulate upon property owned or occupied by him or her in accordance with
the terms of this chapter. Garbage shall be collected or otherwise lawfully
disposed of at least once each month.
(Ord. 109, passed 5-5-1986) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Every householder, occupant, or owner of any residence, and any
restaurant, industrial establishment, or commercial establishment shall
provide, on the premises, one or more containers to receive and contain all
refuse which may accumulate between collections or other disposal. All normal
accumulations of refuse shall be deposited in containers except that leaves,
trimmings from shrubs, grass clippings, shavings, excelsior, and other rubbish
of similar volume and weight may be stored in closed containers not meeting the
requirements of division (B) below.
   (B)   Each container shall be watertight, shall be impervious to insects and
rodents, and shall be fireproof. Containers shall be maintained in good and
sanitary condition. Any container not conforming to the requirements of this
section, or having ragged or sharp edges, or any other defect likely to hamper
or injure the person collecting the contents, shall be promptly replaced after
notice by the city.
   (C)   Where an alley open to traffic is available, each container for
premises abutting the alley shall be placed at the rear of the property next to
the alley. Where no alley exists, the container shall be placed near the rear
door of the building to which it relates for storage purposes. In that case,
the container shall be placed at the front property for collection, but it
shall not be so placed before 1:00 p.m. the night before collection, and shall
be removed by 8:00 p.m. the day of collection.
   (D)   Refuse shall be drained of liquid, and household garbage shall be
wrapped before being deposited in a container. Highly flammable or explosive
material shall not be placed in containers.
(Ord. 109, passed 5-5-1986; Ord. 218, passed 2-4-2003) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 LICENSED COLLECTION.
   (A)   No person shall collect refuse within the city without a license from
the City Council. No person shall permit refuse to be picked up from his or her
premises by an unlicensed collector.
   (B)   The contract shall be made for a term of three years subject to
extension by mutual consent and to termination during the period of the
contract as provided in the contract.
   (C)   Only one person or corporation shall be licensed for collection during
the period of the license from the premises within the city defined by the
Council.
   (D)   (1)   No license shall be issued until the applicant files with the
City Administrator a current policy of public liability insurance covering all
vehicles to be used by the applicant in the licensed business. The limits of
coverage of insurance shall be:
         (a)   Each person injured: an amount as set by Council from time to
time;
         (b)   Each accident: an amount as set by Council from time to time;
and
         (c)   Property damage: an amount as set by Council from time to time.
      (2)   Each policy shall expressly provide that the city be given ten
days’ notice of any termination or cancellation of the coverage. Each contract
shall terminate upon termination of the required insurance coverage.
   (E)   Licenses shall be issued for a period of three years with an annual
license fee in an amount as set by Council from time to time.
   (F)   Each refuse collection vehicle shall be marked on the outside so as to
identify the licensee. Every vehicle used for hauling garbage shall be covered,
leakproof, durable, and of easily cleanable construction. Every vehicle used
for hauling refuse shall be sufficiently airtight and so used as to prevent
unreasonable quantities of dust, paper, or other collected materials to escape.
Every vehicle shall be kept clean to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect
breeding, and shall be maintained in good repair.
   (G)   No person shall collect refuse within the city except the person
holding a contract with the city to do so. No person shall permit refuse to be
picked up from his or her premises except by the contractor.
   (H)   The contractor shall collect refuse in the city at least once a month
from residences, except those residents who notify the City Administrator, in
writing, that they do no want refuse collection service.
(Ord. 109, passed 5-5-1986) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 POLICY OF RATES.
   Rates for collection service charged by the licensed collector shall not be
in excess of the rate fixed from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 109, passed 5-5-1986)
§ 53.08 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any owner, occupant, resident,
or premises who have notified the city that the owner, occupant, resident, or
premises does not desire refuse collection service to deposit garbage, refuse,
or rubbish for disposal in a container of any other owner, occupant, resident,
or premises served by the refuse collection service.
(Ord. 109, passed 5-5-1986)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine in an amount as set by Council from time to time.
(Ord. 109, passed 5-5-1986)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   PARKING RULES
      
71.   RIGHTS-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
      
72.   SPECIAL USE VEHICLES: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, UTILITY TASK VEHICLES, AND
MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Designation of restricted parking zones
   
70.02   Funeral processions, emergency parking
   
70.03   Angle, parallel parking
   
70.04   Parking regulations
   
70.05   Street maintenance, repair
   
70.06   Abandoned vehicles
   
70.07   Exhibition driving
Parking Rules
   
70.20   Prohibitions
   
70.21   Impoundment
   
70.22   Duties of police; impoundment
   
70.23   Police Chief authorized, duties
   
70.24   Registered owner
   
70.25   Application; loading or truck zone
   
70.26   Semi-trailer, truck parking
   
70.27   Parking of commercial vehicles
Plowing
   
70.40   Snowplowing policy
   
70.41   Commencement of operations
   
70.42   Method of plowing
   
70.43   Snow removal
   
70.44   Priority
   
70.45   Work schedule
   
70.46   Traffic regulations
   
70.47   Weather conditions
   
70.48   Use of sand, salt, other chemicals
   
70.49   Snow, ice removal from sidewalks
   
70.50   Overnight parking regulations
   
70.51   Mailboxes
   
70.52   Complaint procedure
   
70.53   Deviation from policy
   
70.54   Review, modification of policy
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DESIGNATION OF RESTRICTED PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may designate certain streets, or portions of
certain streets, as any of the following:
         (a)   No Parking Zone;
         (b)   No Stopping Zone;
         (c)   No Standing Zone;
         (d)   Physically Handicapped Zone;
         (e)   Limited Parking Zone;
         (f)   Truck Zone;
         (g)   Loading Zone;
         (h)   Safety Zone;
         (i)   Bus Stop;
         (j)   Truck or Commercial Vehicle Parking Zone; and
         (k)   The other zones as may be necessary to assist in the direction
and control of traffic.
      (2)   The City Council may adopt restrictions which apply to, and govern,
the parking of vehicles in the designated zones.
   (B)   All zones designated by the Council shall be marked by appropriate
signs as determined by the Council. During the hours specified on each sign, no
person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle, or permit it to stand, whether
attended or unattended, for a period of time longer than is specified on the
sign, and no vehicle shall be stopped, allowed to stand, or parked in a “No
Parking Zone”, or in a zone where parking is otherwise prohibited, except as
permitted by state law, and except as otherwise permitted hereunder.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 70.02 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS, EMERGENCY PARKING.
   (A)   A vehicle may be parked temporarily in a zone which prohibits or
restricts parking for the purpose of forming a funeral procession.
   (B)   Any vehicle owned or occupied by a physician or authorized emergency
first responder on an emergency call may be parked temporarily in a zone which
prohibits or restricts parking for the purpose of making the call and rendering
emergency service, provided the privilege shall not be granted for any time
longer than is reasonably necessary to complete the call and render the
service.
   (C)   Any other authorized emergency vehicle, the driver or owner of which
is engaged in responding to a bona fide emergency, may be parked temporarily in
a zone which prohibits or restricts parking for the purpose of rendering
emergency service, provided the privilege shall not be granted for any time
longer than is reasonably necessary to complete and render the service.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 70.03 ANGLE, PARALLEL PARKING.
   Angle parking shall be allowed only in areas designated for angle parking.
In all other areas, all vehicles shall be parked parallel to the curb or edge
of the roadway in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 70.04 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle, or permit it to
stand or remain, whether attended or unattended, in any of the following
places:
      (1)   On any curb, crosswalk, or sidewalk;
      (2)   Along any curb marked with yellow paint;
      (3)   Within any intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   Within 20 feet of the entrance to a fire station;
      (6)   Within any restricted parking zone designated by the City Council;
      (7)   Double parking;
      (8)   Blocking any driveway or alleyway;
      (9)   In excess of a designated time limit or contrary to a posted
parking prohibition;
      (10)   On any street where snow removal, street maintenance, cleaning,
repair, or excavation is taking place, or where commencement of the work has
been announced or posted, or where the work makes the street partially
obstructed;
      (11)   On the wrong side of the street; and/or
      (12)   For the purpose of camping or sleeping in a motor vehicle within
the city limits outside of areas designated for camping or sleeping.
   (B)   During the hours specified on any sign prohibiting or restricting
parking, no person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle, or permit it to
stand or remain, whether attended or unattended, for a period of time longer
than is specified in the sign, and no vehicle shall be parked, allowed to stop
or stand, nor shall any person stop, stand, or park any vehicle, or permit it
to stand or remain, whether attended or unattended, in a zone where parking is
prohibited.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 STREET MAINTENANCE, REPAIR.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle, or permit it to stand or
remain, upon any street, whether attended or unattended, during the time as
street repair is taking place.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   All abandoned vehicles found within the city limits shall be dealt with in
accordance with M.S. §§ 168B.01 through 168B.16, as they may be amended from
time to time, except that a motor vehicle shall be considered abandoned when it
has remained upon public property for a period of time in excess of 48 hours if
the vehicle is illegally parked or inoperable, or when the vehicle has remained
on private property for a period of excess of 48 hours without the consent of
the owner or person having custody of the private premises, or if the vehicle
is in inoperable condition.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007; Ord. 251, passed 8-3-2022)
§ 70.07 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate, or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, swaying, sliding, throwing sand or gravel,
or in a manner simulating a race. Squealing or screeching sounds emitted by
tires, or the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires, is prima facie evidence
of violation of this section.
(Ord. 87, passed 1-9-1978) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING RULES
§ 70.20 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle, or permit it to stand or
remain, whether attended or unattended, contrary to the following:
   (A)   Signs which have been erected as required by law or by order of the
City Council; and/or
   (B)   Any provision of this subchapter.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any police officer may, consistent with M.S. § 168B.035, as it may be
amended from time to time, remove, or cause to be removed, a vehicle from the
street to a garage or other impound area when a vehicle is left unattended and
constitutes an obstruction to traffic, is parked in violation of this
subchapter, or hinders street improvement or maintenance operations, or is
parked, stopped, or standing in violation of any law or ordinance, or local
authority of the city. Vehicles impounded pursuant to this subchapter will be
released to their lawful owner (or persons entitled to possession) upon showing
of adequate evidence of a right of its possession, and paying the amount of all
accrued parking use fees, fines, and costs for each outstanding citation,
notice, summons, or warrant and, in addition thereto, the charges for towing
and storage.
   (B)   Whenever the Police Department, or its authorized agent, has impounded
a vehicle described in this subchapter, notice of the removal, and the storage
place of the vehicle, shall be mailed to the last registered owner of the
vehicle, within ten days, if the name and address of the owner can be
ascertained with reasonable diligence. The notice shall:
      (1)   Set forth the date and place of the taking, year, make, model, and
serial number of the subject motor vehicle, if the information can be
reasonably obtained, and the place where the vehicle is held;
      (2)   Inform the owner and any lien holders of his or her right to
reclaim the vehicle as provided herein; and
      (3)   State the failure of the owner or lien holder to exercise his or
her right to reclaim the vehicle, and contents shall be deemed a waiver by him
or her of all the right, title, and interest in the vehicle, and consents to
the sale of the vehicle and contents at a public auction authorized by this
subchapter.
   (C)   The notice shall be sent by mail to the registered owner, if any, of
the subject motor vehicle, and to all readily identifiable lien holders of
record. If it is impossible to determine, with reasonable certainty, the
identity and address of the registered owner and all lien holders, the notice
shall be published once in the newspaper of general circulation in the area
where the motor vehicle was seized. Published notices may be grouped together
for convenience and economy.
   (D)   The owner or any lien holder, or a motor vehicle seized pursuant to
this subchapter, shall have the right to reclaim the vehicle from the city upon
payment set forth herein, within 15 days after the date of the notice of the
taking of the motor vehicle.
   (E)   If a motor vehicle seized pursuant to this subchapter is not claimed,
it shall be sold at public auction as provided by M.S. § 168B.08, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (F)   The registered owner of a vehicle shall be presumed to be the owner at
the time the summons, notice, or other process where in fact issued, and shall
be severally responsible for the offenses and the impoundment, except where the
use of the vehicle was secured by the operator without the owner’s consent.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 70.22 DUTIES OF POLICE; IMPOUNDMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to safely keep any impounded
vehicle until the vehicle shall have been repossessed by the owner or person
legally entitled to possession thereof, or otherwise disposed of as provided in
this subchapter. The Police Department shall cause to be kept an accurate
record of the description of the vehicle, including the name of the officer
from whom the vehicle was received, the officer employed to tow, or have
delivered the same to the pound or authorized garage, the date and time when
received, the place where found, seized, or taken possession of, the make and
color of car, style, or body, motor number, serial number, year built, state
license number, if any, equipment and general description of condition, the
name and address of the person redeeming the vehicle, the date redeeming the
vehicle, the date of redemption, and the manner and date of disposal of the
vehicle, in case the same shall not be redeemed, together with the cost of
outstanding summons, and the towing and storage charges. This record shall be
in the form prescribed by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 70.23 POLICE CHIEF AUTHORIZED, DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to design and
prepare all forms, and to take other steps necessary to carry out the purposes
and intent of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief, under the direction of the
Council, to keep account of all violations of this subchapter.
   (C)   The Police Chief shall keep an account of, and report with regard to,
each vehicle which has been parked in violation of any of the provisions of
this subchapter, the date and hour of the violation, the name and the state
license number of the vehicle, and any other facts, the knowledge of which is
necessary to a thorough understanding of the circumstances attending the
violation.
   (D)   The Police Chief shall attach to any vehicle parked in violation of
this subchapter, or any other ordinance relating to parking in the city, a
ticket as provided by §
70.20.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 70.24 REGISTERED OWNER.
   The presence of any motor vehicle on any street when standing or parked in
violation of this subchapter of these codified ordinances of the city is prima
facia evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle committed, or
authorized the commission of, the violation.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 70.25 APPLICATION; LOADING OR TRUCK ZONE.
   Any person desiring the establishment of a loading zone or a truck zone
abutting premises occupied by him or her shall make written application to the
City Council. If the City Council grants the request, the applicant shall be
billed for the estimated cost of placing the signs and painting the curb, and
no signs shall be installed, or action taken in connection with establishment
of the zone, until the estimated cost is paid by the applicant.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 70.26 SEMI-TRAILER, TRUCK PARKING.
   No person shall allow a semi-tractor and/or semi-trailer, or any combination
of separation thereof, to stand or to be parked for more than four hours on a
street in the city except in an emergency in order to change tractors and/or
trailers, in a designated area, or with permission of the Police Department.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle, or permit it to stand or
remain upon any street, whether attended or unattended, in the business
district of the city between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on a business
day if the vehicle has a net weight of more than 5,500 pounds, or a gross
weight limitation of more than 10,000 pounds, except that the a vehicle may be
parked temporarily in the business district for the purpose of having access to
abutting property for the purpose of loading or unloading freight, or other
merchandise, when access cannot otherwise be secured from an alley or side
street where the parking is not restricted, or in a designated area.
(Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
PLOWING
§ 70.40 SNOWPLOWING POLICY.
   (A)   The City Council, in the interest of public safety and convenience,
and under the authority of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to
time, hereby ordains that the city believes that it is in the best interest of
the residents for the city to assume basic responsibility for control of snow
and ice on city streets. Reasonable ice and snow control is necessary for
routine travel and emergency services. The city will attempt to provide control
in a safe and cost-effective manner, keeping in mind safety, budget, personnel,
and environmental concerns. The city will use city employees, equipment, and/or
private contractors to provide this service. No general policy can anticipate
every situation or contingency, and the city officials identified herein are
expected and authorized by the City Council to exercise discretion in the
performance of their duties, and to deviate from the policies established
herein in specific situations where, in their professional judgment, the public
health, welfare, and safety warrants a deviation from the adopted policy.
   (B)   This policy does not relieve the operator of private vehicles,
pedestrians, property owners, residents, and all others that may be using
public streets of their responsibility to act in a reasonable, prudent, and
cautious manner, given the prevailing street conditions.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 70.41 COMMENCEMENT OF OPERATIONS.
   (A)   The Street Superintendent will decide when to begin snow or ice
control operations. The criteria for that decision are:
      (1)   Snow accumulation of three inches or more;
      (2)   Drifting of snow that causes problems for travel;
      (3)   Icy conditions which seriously affect travel; and
      (4)   Time of snowfall in relationship to heavy use of streets.
   (B)   Snow and ice control operations are expensive and involve the use of
limited personnel and equipment. Consequently, snowplowing operations will not
generally be conducted for snowfall of less than three inches.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 70.42 METHOD OF PLOWING.
   The city will attempt to plow the snow in a manner so as to minimize any
traffic obstructions. The city will attempt to plow the center of the roadway
first. The city shall then attempt to push the snow from left to right. The
discharge shall go onto the boulevard area of the street. In times of extreme
snowfall, streets will not always immediately be able to be completely cleared
of snow.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 70.43 SNOW REMOVAL.
   The Street Superintendent will determine when snow will be removed by truck
from the area. The city will attempt to remove snow in the downtown areas,
areas where there is no room on the boulevard for snow storage, and in areas
where accumulated piles of snow create a hazardous condition. Snow removal
operations will generally not commence until other snowplowing operations have
been completed. Snow removal operations may also be delayed depending on
weather conditions, personnel, and budget availability. The removed snow will
be hauled to a snow storage area. The city will attempt to haul the removed
snow to a snow storage area with minimal resulting environmental problems.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 70.44 PRIORITY.
   (A)   The city will attempt to plow city streets based on the street
function, traffic volume, and importance to the welfare of the community, with
the following order of priority:
      (1)   High-volume streets and roads which provide access for emergency
fire, police, and medical services;
      (2)   Streets providing access to schools and commercial businesses;
      (3)   Streets in low-volume residential areas; and
      (4)   Alleys and city parking lots.
   (B)   During significant and severe storms, the city must be prepared to
move personnel and equipment to maintain priority routes first. In fulfilling
the need to have all priority streets safe and passable, when resources are
limited, plowing of all other streets may be stopped at any time so resources
can be shifted to priority routes.
   (C)   Unforeseeable circumstances may cause delays in completing assigned
plow routes. The circumstances may include weather conditions that endanger the
safety of snowplow operators and/or safe and effective operation of equipment,
commuter traffic, disabled vehicles, poor visibility conditions, parked cars
along streets, assistance to emergency response vehicles, equipment breakdown,
and personnel shortages.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 70.45 WORK SCHEDULE.
   Snowplow operators will be expected to work their assigned shifts. In severe
snow emergencies, operators sometimes have to work longer shifts, but will be
paid overtime for hours in excess of 40 hours per week. However, because of
budget and safety concerns, no operator shall work more than a 12-hour shift in
any 24-hour period. While work breaks are not guaranteed, general operators
will take breaks in accordance with city policy, provided the breaks do not
interfere with city services or operations. In addition, operators will be
allowed sufficient time to eat a meal during any shift which is eight or more
hours. After a 12-hour shift, the operators will be replaced if additional
qualified personnel are available.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 70.46 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The city recognizes that snowplow operators are exempt from traffic
regulations set forth in M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to
time, while actually engaged in work on streets, except for regulations related
to driving while impaired and the safety of school children. Pursuant to this
section, snowplow operators engaged in snow removal or ice control on city
streets have discretion to disregard traffic laws set forth in M.S. Chapter
169, as it may be amended from time to time, except for laws relating to
impaired driving and school children safety, when, in their judgment, it is
safe to disregard the laws. The privileges granted herein to operators of snow
removal and ice control vehicles shall apply only if the vehicle is equipped
with one lighted lamp displaying a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
light placed in the a position on the vehicle as to be visible throughout an
arc of 360 degrees.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 70.47 WEATHER CONDITIONS.
   The city shall attempt to conduct snow and ice control operations only when
weather conditions do not endanger the safety of city employees and equipment.
Factors that may delay snow and ice control operations include severe cold,
significant winds, and limited visibility.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 70.48 USE OF SAND, SALT, OTHER CHEMICALS.
   The city will attempt to use sand, salt, and other chemicals when there are
hazardous ice or slippery conditions. The city is concerned about the effect of
the chemicals on the environment, and will limit its use for that reason.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 70.49 SNOW, ICE REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of property fronting on
any sidewalk within the city to keep the sidewalk on which his or her property
fronts clear of snow and ice, and to remove all snow within 24 hours after each
snowfall. This includes any snow plowed from public streets onto the sidewalk.
In case of failure to remove snow and ice as above specified, the city may
remove the snow and ice, and the costs thereof, assessed against the property.
   (B)   When possible, and as a public courtesy, the city will attempt to
remove snow from the business area sidewalks, portions of West Central Drive,
and portions of 2nd Street Southwest, that have heavy pedestrian traffic. This
does not in any way remove the responsibility from the property owner or
occupant as provided for in division (A) above.
   (C)   It is strictly prohibited for any residential property owner or
occupant to put snow onto a city street or onto city property.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.50 OVERNIGHT PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   From November 1 to April 1, it shall be unlawful for any person to
park a motor vehicle, or any owner to permit a motor vehicle to be parked on
any street, or within the city’s street right-of-way, which includes the
boulevard in the city, between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (B)   Before and after the November 1 to April 1 parking restriction, it
shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle, or any owner to
permit a motor vehicle to be parked on any street, or within the city’s street
right-of-way, which includes the boulevard, at any time between the hours of 2:
00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. when there is an average of two or more inches of snow on
the city streets.
   (C)   The removal of the violating vehicles does not preclude prosecution
for violation of this section.
   (D)   Whenever the Police Department, or its authorized agent, has impounded
a vehicle described in this section, notice of the removal, and the storage
place of the vehicle, shall be mailed to the last registered owner of the
vehicle, within ten days, if name and address of the owner can be ascertained
with reasonable diligence. The notice shall:
      (1)   Set forth the date and place of the taking, year, make, model, and
serial number of the subject motor vehicle, if the information can be
reasonably obtained, and the place where the vehicle is held;
      (2)   Inform the owner and any lien holders of his or her right to
reclaim the vehicle as provided herein; and
      (3)   State that the failure of the owner or lien holders to exercise his
or her right to reclaim the vehicle and contents shall be deemed a waiver by
him or her of all the right, title, and interest in the vehicle and contents,
and consent to the sale of the vehicle and contents at a public auction
authorized by this section.
   (E)   The notice shall be sent by mail to the registered owner, if any, of
the subject motor vehicle, and to all readily identifiable lien holders of
record. If it is impossible to determine, with reasonable certainty, the
identity and address of the registered owner and all lien holders, the notice
shall be published once in the newspaper of general circulation in the area
where the motor vehicle was seized. Published notices may be grouped together
for convenience and economy.
   (F)   The owner or any lien holder, or a motor vehicle seized pursuant to
this section, shall have the right to reclaim the vehicle from the city upon
payment set forth herein within 15 days after the date of the notice of the
taking of the motor vehicle.
   (G)   If a motor vehicle seized pursuant to this section is not claimed, it
shall be sold at public auction as provided by M.S. § 168B.08, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.51 MAILBOXES.
   (A)   Damage to a mailbox is a risk that snowplow operators face during
their winter plowing requirement. The city will conduct a review of each
mailbox damage claim to determine whether the city has any legal responsibility
for the damage and, if so, to replace or provide reimbursement for the mailbox.
   (B)   If the city, in its discretion, determines that reimbursement or
replacement is appropriate, the city may:
      (1)   At the mailbox owner’s request, replace the mailbox with a standard
size, non-decorative metal mailbox, and replace the support post as necessary
with a four inches by four inches, decay resistance wood support post, both
which will be installed by the city; or
      (2)   Provide reimbursement in a reasonable amount for the mailbox and
support posts that meet the city’s ordinance standards, as well as state and
federal requirements for mailbox size, support, and placement.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 70.52 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   Complaints will be recorded on telephone logs. Calls requiring service will
be transferred to a work request and forwarded to the appropriate supervisor
for scheduling. Emergency complaints will be handled in an expeditious manner
as resources are available.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 70.53 DEVIATION FROM POLICY.
   The Superintendent of Streets may deviate from this policy when, in his or
her judgment, it is in the best interest of the city, or is necessary because
of budget needs or other circumstances. Changes in priorities (lasting more
than four hours) will be documented as to what caused the actions, why the
change was necessary, and for how long the change is to be in effect. Those
city employees and/or contractors affected will be notified immediately by
radio or cell phone of the changes with all communication logged. Information
logged will include the time and date of communication, name of employee
contacted, and how he or she was contacted. Any changes of priorities lasting
more than 24 hours should be made in a written record, and the public should be
informed of the changes through the normal methods used by the city for
emergency notifications.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 70.54 REVIEW, MODIFICATION OF POLICY.
   The city shall keep on file all comments and complaints received regarding
this subchapter. The subchapter will be reviewed periodically. Any review will
consider comments and complaints since the last review, and any other factors
affecting the policy or its implementation.
(Ord. 280, passed 1-8-2019)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever any vehicle is parked contrary to the provisions of §§
70.01 through
70.25, or any other ordinance relating to parking in the city, the Police
Department shall attach to the vehicle a ticket meeting the requirements of
state law, stating that it has been parked in violation of this chapter, and
instructing the owner or operator to report to the Police Department in regard
to a violation. The owner or operator may pay the Chief of Police, or his or
her duly authorized agent, or may deposit in receptacles provided at City Hall
for purposes in full satisfaction of the violations the sum in an amount as set
by Council from time to time, unless otherwise provided on the ticket or as
specified in state law.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of §§
70.01 through
70.25, or other ordinances of the city relating to parking, and who has not
paid the sums of money as provided in this section within ten days after the
ticket was issued, shall be charged with a petty misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine in an amount as set by Council
from time to time.
   (C)   As to §§
70.49 and
70.50 herein above, any offender repeatedly violating the provisions of this
chapter may be charged with a petty misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to a fine in an amount as set by Council from time to time.
   (D)   The owner of any motor vehicle found violating the regulations of §
70.50 may be cited in an amount as set by Council from time to time for the
first offense, in an amount as set by Council from time to time for the second
offense, and in an amount as set by Council from time to time for the third
offense and every offense thereafter within the same winter season, and the
vehicle may be immediately removed and impounded by any police officer or
person designated by the Council. The vehicle shall be surrendered only to the
duly identified owner or representative thereof, and upon payment of the cost
of towing and storage. Any damage occasioned to any vehicles by the towing
operations shall be the responsibility of the owner or operator thereof, and no
liability for damages shall be imposed against, nor shall any damage be assumed
by, the city.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation who commits a violation of Traffic
Schedule I shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine in an amount as set by Council from time to time, plus
the cost of prosecution in any case.
(Ord. 192, passed 3-1-1999; Ord. 251, passed 4-3-2007; Ord. 280, passed 1-8-
2019)
CHAPTER 71: RIGHTS-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
71.01   Purpose
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Registration
   
71.04   Reporting obligations
   
71.05   Permit required
   
71.06   Timeliness of work; supplementary notification
   
71.07   Standards for construction, installation
   
71.08   Standards for wireless telecommunication facilities; construction
   
71.09   Patching, restoration of right-of-way
   
71.10   Other obligations
   
71.11   Denial, revocation of permit
   
71.12   Emergencies; work done without a permit
   
71.13   Inspection
   
71.14   Appeal
   
71.15   Mapping data
   
71.16   Underground facilities; locations
   
71.17   Relocation of facilities
   
71.18   Pre-excavation facilities locations
   
71.19   Damage to other facilities
   
71.20   Right-of-way vacation
   
71.21   Discontinued, unusable equipment and facilities
   
71.22   Indemnification, liability
   
71.23   Franchise holders
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city holds the rights-of-way within its geographical boundaries as
an asset in trust for its citizens. The city and other public entities have a
substantial investment of public funds to build and maintain the rights-of-way.
It also recognizes that some persons, by placing his or her equipment in the
right-of-way and charging the citizens of the city for goods and services
delivered thereby, are using this property held for the public good. Although
the services are often necessary or convenient for the citizens, the persons
receive revenue and/or profit through his or her use of public property.
Although the installation of the service delivery facilities are, in most
cases, necessary and proper use of the right-of-way, the city must regulate and
manage the uses for the common good.
   (B)   To provide for the health, safety, and well-being of its citizens and
to ensure the structural integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of
rights-of-way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good
repair and free from unnecessary encumbrances. Although the general population
funds the majority of the upkeep of the rights-of-way, one of the causes for
the early and excessive deterioration of its rights-of-way is frequent
excavation.
   (C)   In order to fulfill its duties imposed by the State Office of Pipeline
Safety under Minn. Rules Chapter 7560, as it is amended from time to time, to
maintain information regarding the location of privately-owned and installed
underground facilities within a public right-of-way, and to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare from any dangers posed by underground facilities,
the location of which is not of record, the city shall require private property
owners, and his or her private utility contractors, excavators, and installers,
to provide the city with up-to-date, accurate information of all underground
equipment installed in the public right-of-way or in any public ground, or on
any property where the facility or equipment is now, or in the future to be,
connected to the city’s facilities.
   (D)   This chapter imposes regulations on the placement and maintenance of
facilities and equipment currently within its rights-of-way, or to be placed
therein at some future time. Under this chapter, persons excavating,
disturbing, or obstructing the rights-of-way will bear a share of the financial
responsibility for his or her work through the recovery of out-of-pocket and
projected costs for maintaining the integrity of the public rights-of-way.
   (E)   This chapter also provides for recovery of the city’s costs associated
with managing its rights-of-way.
   (F)   This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws,
Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81, and 238.086, as they may be amended from time to time (the
“Act”), and 2017 Session Laws, Chapter 94 amending the Act, and the other laws
governing applicable rights of the city and users of the right-of-way. This
chapter shall also be interpreted consistently with Minn. Rules parts 7819.0050
through 7819.9950, as applicable, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the city elects, pursuant M.S. §
237.163, subd. 2(b), as it may be amended from time to time, to manage rights-
of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not ABANDONED
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way.
   CITY. The City of Braham, Minnesota.
   CITY MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs incurred by the city for public
rights-of-way management, including, but not limited to, costs associated with
registering applicants seeking permission to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way permit applications;
inspecting job sites and restoration projects; maintaining, supporting,
protecting, or moving user equipment during public right-of-way work;
determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and opportunity to correct the
work; mapping of “as-built” locations of facilities located in rights-of-way;
and revoking right-of-way permits, and performing all other functions required
by this chapter, including other costs the city may incur in managing the
provisions of this chapter.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure or utility pole that is owned privately, or by the
city or other governmental unit.
   COMMISSION. Minnesota Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, over a continuous length in excess of 500 feet.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at the Planner’s option:
      (1)   Individual project bond, including a LICENSE AND PERMIT BOND;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, as it may
be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city; or
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DATA CONVERSION FEE. The fee covering the city’s cost of converting each
submission of data required by this chapter into the city’s electronic format,
which shall apply separately to each set of data required, including, without
limitation, the permit application, scaled drawings, and mapping data.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in, or disturbance of, the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct the right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules part 7819.1100, the cost to achieve
a level of restoration as determined by the city at the time the permit is
issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration set forth in Minn. Rules parts
7819.9900 through 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The fee established at the time of permitting by the city
to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of the right-
of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation cost.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in the
permitted work within the right-of-way including construction, excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration as established by a permit.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the city.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Works of the city, or his
or her designee.
   DISCONTINUED FACILITY.
      (1)   A facility no longer in service or physically disconnected from a
portion of the operating facility, or from any other facility, that is in use
or still carries service.
      (2)   A facility that is deemed discontinued by the right-of-way user.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a clear and immediate danger to life or health, or of a
significant loss of property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement in order to restore
service to a customer.
   EMERGENCY HOLE. Excavation of a hole necessitated by a condition creating a
clear and immediate threat to life, health, safety, or property, or requiring
immediate repair or replacement in order to restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into, or in any way remove, or physically disturb, or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. A permit which must be obtained before a person may
excavate in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT allows the holder to excavate
in that part of the right-of-way described in the permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
71.05(A).
   FACILITY OR FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service. The term does not include facilities to the extent the
location and relocation of the facilities are preempted by M.S. § 161.45, as it
may be amended from time to time, governing utility facility placement in state
trunk highways.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next five years.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users, having multiple and
competing facilities, may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE. An excavation in the right-of-way having a length that is equal to, or
less than, the width pavement or adjacent pavement of the right-of-way for the
section of the roadway where the work is occurring.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of the person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for the registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including the costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way or small wireless
facility permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-
way work; determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way or small wireless facility permits.
MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way, unreasonable fees of a third-party
contractor used by the city, including fees tied to, or based on, customer
counts, access lines, or revenues generated by the right-of-way or for the
city, the fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of
Minnesota Session Laws 1997, Chapter 123; M.S. §§ 237.162 or 237.163, as they
may be amended from time to time; or any ordinance enacted under those
sections, or the city fees and costs related to appeals taken pursuant to §
71.14.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object upon a public right-of-way so as to
hinder free and open passage over that, or any part, of the right-of-way for an
aggregate period of eight hours or more, in conjunction with the issuance of a
right-of-way permit.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. A permit which must be obtained before a person may
obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to hinder free and open passage
over the specified portion of that right-of-way by placing equipment described
therein on the right-of-way for the duration specified in the permit, including
a blanket permit for a period of time and for types of work specified by the
Planner.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
71.05(O).
   PATCH or PATCHING. A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A PATCH consists of:
      (1)   The compaction of the subbase and aggregate base; and
      (2)   The replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum of
two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions.
      A PATCH is considered full restoration only when the pavement is included
in the city’s five-year project plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved, or otherwise constructed, with paver blocks, bituminous,
concrete, aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given to RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT in M.S. § 237.162, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   PERMIT HOLDER. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERMITEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-way
has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or non-profit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
Examples include:
      (1)   A business or commercial enterprise organized as any type or
combination of corporation, limited liability company, partnership, limited
liability partnership, proprietorship, association, cooperative, joint venture,
carrier, or utility, and any successor or assignee of any of them;
      (2)   A social or charitable organization; and
      (3)   Any type or combination of political subdivision, which includes
the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the state, a local government
unit, or a combination of any of them.
   PLANNER. The city’s Planner or designee.
   POTHOLING. Excavating the area above an underground facility to determine
the precise location of the underground facility without damage to it, before
excavating within two feet of the marked location of the underground facility,
as required in M.S. Chapter 216D, as it may be amended from time to time.
   PROBATION. The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions
of this chapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a person has been notified,
in writing, that they have been put on probation.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public
roadway, highway, street, cart way, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk in which
the city has an interest, including other dedicated RIGHTS-OF-WAY for travel
purposes and utility easements of the city. A RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include the
airwaves above a RIGHT-OF-WAY with regard to cellular or other non-wire
telecommunications or broadcast service.
   REGISTRANT. Any person required to register pursuant to §
71.03 of this chapter:
      (1)   Who has, or seeks to have, his or her facilities or equipment
located in any right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way, or place his or her facilities or equipment in the right-of-way.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which the right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permit holder to
achieve the level of restoration according to city.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. An excavation permit, obstruction permit, or a utility
permit, or any combination thereof, depending on the context required by this
chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT PROCESSING FEE. The portion of the right-of-way permit
fee covering the city’s cost of processing the permit application that is not
subject to refund upon withdrawal of the application.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.
      (1)   A telecommunications RIGHT-OF-WAY USER, as defined by M.S. §
237.162, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the public right-of-
way that is used, or is intended to be used, for providing utility service, and
who has a right under the law, franchise, or this chapter to use the public
right-of-way.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Those SERVICES provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, subds. 4 and 6, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   SERVICES of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Natural gas or electric energy, or telecommunications SERVICES
provided by a governmental unit;
      (4)   Pipeline, community antenna television, fire and alarm
communications, water, sewer, electricity, light, heat, cooling energy, or
power SERVICES;
      (5)   The SERVICES provided by a corporation organized for the purposes
set forth in M.S. § 301B.01, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (6)   The SERVICES provided by a district heating or cooling system; and
      (7)   CABLE COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, as defined in M.S. Chapter 238, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute, or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A SERVICE LATERAL is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer’s premises.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume, or could fit within an enclosure; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the SMALL WIRELESS
FACILITY, provided the equipment is, in aggregate, no more than 28-cubic feet
in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any equipment
concealed from public view within, or behind, an existing structure or
concealment.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend a permit that had already
been issued.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way, that is used, or is intended to be used, for providing wireless
service, or transporting telecommunication or other voice or data information.
For purposes of this chapter, a cable communication system, defined and
regulated under M.S. Chapter 238, as it may be amended from time to time, and
telecommunication activities related to providing natural gas or electric
energy services, a public utility as defined in M.S. § 216B.02, as it may be
amended from time to time, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency
organized under M.S. Chapters 453 and 453A, as they may be amended from time to
time, or a cooperative electric association organized under M.S. Chapter 308A,
as it may be amended from time to time, are not TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY
USERS except to the extent the entity is offering wireless service.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation.
   TRENCH. An excavation having a length that is in excess of the width of the
right-of-way for the sections of roadway where the work is occurring, including
a directional bore.
   TWO-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Projects adopted by the city for construction within
the next two years.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole, or in part, to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including equipment associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and a
small wireless facility, but not including wireless support structures, wire
line backhaul facilities, or cables between utility poles or wireless support
structures, or not otherwise immediately adjacent to, and directly associated
with, a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile device, that is provided using wireless facilities. WIRELESS
SERVICE does not include services regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, being 47 U.S.C. 521, including cable
service.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support, or capable of supporting, small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the city.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY. A tangible asset used to provide
wireless telecommunication or data services, including all antennas, support
devices, equipment including ground equipment, associated cables, and
attachments.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration required prior to work. No person shall construct,
install, repair, remove, relocate, or perform any work within any right-of-way,
including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by lease,
sublease, or assignment, without first being registered pursuant to this
section. The registration shall be made on an application form provided by the
city and shall be accompanied by the registration fee in an amount as set by
Council from time to time. Registration, and the accompanying fee, shall be
required on an annual basis. A service or utility service operating under a
franchise with the city shall register pursuant to this section, but need not
provide the registration information required by division (C) below if the
information has been submitted pursuant to the franchise agreement. A person
who pays a franchise fee to the city in accordance with a franchise agreement
shall be exempt from payment of a registration fee. Nothing in this section
relieves a person from complying with the provisions of M.S. Chapter 216D, the
Gopher State One-Call Law, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following are not subject to the requirements of this
section, but may be subject to regulation by other sections of this chapter:
      (1)   Persons planting or maintaining boulevard surface plantings or
gardens;
      (2)   Persons erecting fences, mail boxes, installing driveways,
sidewalk, curb and gutter, or parking lots;
      (3)   Persons engaged in snow removal activities;
      (4)   Persons installing street furnishings, bus stop benches, and
shelters;
      (5)   Persons installing irrigation systems;
      (6)   City other than sewer and water utilities; and
      (7)   Persons acting as agents, contractors, or subcontractors for a
registrant who has properly registered in accordance with this section.
   (C)   Registration information. The registrant shall provide, at the time of
registration and within 15 days following the date the registrant becomes aware
of any change thereto, the following information:
      (1)   Registrant’s name, address, telephone number, facsimile number, and
Gopher State One- Call registration certificate number, if required by state
law;
      (2)   Name, street address, e-mail address, telephone number, and
facsimile number of the person responsible for fulfilling the obligations of
the registrant;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance from a company licensed to do business
in the state providing minimum coverage in the following amounts:
         (a)   General liability.
            1.   Public liability, including premises, products, and complete
operations:
               a.   Bodily injury liability: $1,000,000 each person ,
$3,000,000 each occurrence; and
               b.   Property damage liability: $3,000,000 each occurrence;
            2.   In lieu of divisions (C)(3)(a)1.a. and (C)(3)(a)1.b. above,
bodily injury and property damage combined: $3,000,000 single limit.
         (b)   Comprehensive.
            1.   Automobile liability insurance, including owned, non-owned,
and hired vehicles:
               a.   Bodily injury liability: $1,000,000 each person, $3,000,000
each occurrence; and
               b.   Property damage liability; $3,000,000 each occurrence.
            2.   In lieu of divisions (C)(3)(b)1.a. and (C)(3)(b)2.b. above,
bodily injury and property damage combined: $3,000,000 single limit.
         (c)   Certificate. The certificate shall verify that the registrant is
insured against claims for personal injury, including death, as well as claims
for property damage arising out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by
the registrant, his or her officers, agents, employees, and permit holders; and
placement and use of equipment or facilities in the right-of-way by the
registrant, his or her officers, agents, employees, and permit holders,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground equipment, and collapse of
property. The certificate shall also name the city as an additional insured as
to whom the coverages required herein are in force and applicable, and for whom
defense will be provided as to all coverages. The certificate shall require
that the Planner be notified 30 days prior to cancellation of the policy;
      (4)   Twenty-four hour emergency number;
      (5)   An acknowledgment by the registrant of the indemnification pursuant
to §
71.21 of this chapter;
      (6)   Certificate of authority to do business in the state and in the
city, if applicable;
      (7)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the State Public Utilities Commission or other authorization, or approval
from the applicable state or federal agency to lawfully operate, where the
person is lawfully required to have the authorization or approval from the
Commission or other state or federal agency; and
      (8)   The additional information as the city may require.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.04 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by December 1
of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for underground
facilities with the Planner. The plan shall be submitted using a format
designated by the Planner, and shall contain the information determined by the
Planner to be necessary to facilitate coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way. If by December 1 of
any year the registrant has not developed his or her construction and
maintenance information for the coming year, the registrant shall file the
information with the city as soon thereafter as it is developed.
   (B)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   To the extent known, the locations and the estimated beginning and
ending dates of all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year; and
      (2)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year.
   (C)   The Planner will have available for inspection, in his or her office,
a composite list of all projects of which the Planner has been informed in the
annual plans. All registrants are responsible for keeping himself or herself
informed of the current status of this list. Each registrant must notify the
Planner immediately of any change in his or her list of projects.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   General. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no registrant
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way, or install or place facilities in
the right-of-way, without first having been issued the appropriate permit
pursuant to this section and conspicuously displayed, or otherwise available,
at all times at the indicated work site, and shall be available for inspection
by the city.
   (B)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by the registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in each permit, and to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by
placing facilities therein, to the extent and for the duration specified in the
permit.
   (C)   Obstruction/aerial/interduct permit. An obstruction/aerial/interduct
permit is required by a registrant to hinder free and open passage over the
specified portion of right-of-way by placing equipment described therein within
the right-of-way, to the extent and for the duration specified in the permit.
An obstruction/aerial/interduct permit is not required if a registrant has been
issued a valid excavation permit for the same project.
   (D)   Pole attachment permit. A pole attachment permit is required by the
registrant in order to attach a wireless telecommunication facility to an
existing public utility structure in the public right-of-way. A pole attachment
permit is not required if a registrant has been issued a valid excavation
permit for the same project.
   (E)   Permit reprocessing fee. No registrant may excavate or obstruct the
right-of-way beyond the date or dates specified in the permit, or do any work
outside the area specified in the permit unless:
      (1)   The registrant makes a supplementary application for an extension
of the permit, or a new permit before expiration of the initial permit, and
pays the applicable permit fee in an amount as set by Council from time to
time; and/or
      (2)   Is granted a new permit or an extension of the initial permit by
the Planner.
   (F)   Small wireless facility permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support structure, to
collocate a small wireless facility, or to otherwise install a small wireless
facility in the specified portion of the right-of-way, to the extent specified
therein, provided that the permit shall remain in effect for the length of time
the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked. Verbal extensions of the
initial permit may be granted by the Planner for a period of no greater than 48
hours, or for emergencies, without additional fee.
   (G)   Diligence in performance work; delay penalty. Work shall progress in
an expeditious manner as permitted by weather conditions until completion in
order to avoid unnecessary inconvenience to the public. If the work is not done
in an expeditious manner, the city may, after 72-hour notice to the permit
holder, fill the excavation or repair the street. The holder, upon demand made
by the city, shall pay the entire cost of the work. In accordance with Minn.
Rules part 7819.1000, subpart 3, and notwithstanding divisions (B) and (C)
above, the city shall establish and impose a delay penalty where excavating or
obstruction work in the right-of-way is not completed within the time specified
in the permit, and no supplementary application has been made for a permit
extension or a new permit prior to the expiration date of the permit where the
delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration are
unreasonable. The delay penalty shall be established from time to time by City
Council resolution. A delay penalty will not be imposed for delays due to force
majeure, including inclement weather, civil strife, acts of God, or other
circumstances beyond the control of the applicant.
   (H)   Application and fee. An application for a right-of-way permit shall be
made on forms provided by the city and shall be accompanied by the fees in an
amount as set by Council from time to time, and which are established to
reimburse the city for city costs. A person who pays a franchise fee to the
city in accordance with a franchise agreement shall be exempt from the payment
of permit fees. All applications must be in the name of the registrant. No
joint applications will be accepted. If the work is to be performed by an
agent, contractor, or subcontractor on behalf of the registrant, the
application shall be signed by the registrant. The application shall also be
accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Scaled drawings showing the location of all facilities and
improvements proposed by the applicant. The applicant will be requested to
submit, in English measurement, two paper copies at 50 scale plans, and one
copy in AutoCAD format with X, Y, Z dimensions to one-foot accuracy electronic
plan. The plans must be dimensional and show existing utilities, curb and
gutter, sidewalks, bikeways, signal poles, driveways, boxes, and structures. If
the applicant chooses to submit this data in a different format, he or she
shall be responsible for the additional payment of the data conversion fee set
forth in Res. 11-7A;
      (2)   A description of the methods that will be used for installation;
      (3)   A proposed schedule for all work;
      (4)   The location of any public streets, sidewalks, or alleys that will
be temporarily closed to traffic during the work;
      (5)   A description of methods for restoring any public improvements
disrupted by the work; and
      (6)   Any other information reasonably required by the city.
   (I)   Security. A performance bond, letter of credit, or cash deposit in an
amount determined by the Planner shall be required from each applicant. The
Planner shall have the right to determine the form of security that must be
filed. The applicant, at his or her option, may post security sufficient to
cover all projects contemplated for a one-year period. Any performance bond or
letter of credit must be approved by the City Attorney as to form. Security
required pursuant to this section shall be conditioned that the holder will
perform the work in accordance with this chapter and applicable regulations,
will pay to the city any costs incurred by the city in performing work pursuant
to this chapter, and will indemnify and save the city and its officers, agents,
and employees harmless against any and all claims, judgment, or other costs
arising from any excavation and other work covered by the right-of-way permit,
or by reason of any accident or injury to persons or property through the fault
of the permit holder, either in improperly guarding the excavation or for any
other injury resulting from the negligence or willful actions of the permit
holder. The bond, letter of credit, or cash deposit shall be released by the
city upon completion of the work and compliance with all conditions imposed by
the right-of-way permit, specifically including full compliance with §
71.15(A) of this chapter. For permits allowing excavations within public
streets, the bond, letter of credit, or cash deposit shall be held for a period
of not less than 24 months to guarantee adequacy of all restoration work.
   (J)   Permit issuances; conditions. The Planner shall grant a right-of-way
permit upon finding the work will comply with the requirements of this chapter.
The Planner may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance of the permit
and the performance of the applicant thereunder to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare, to ensure the structural integrity of the right-of-way, to
ensure completion of restoration of the right-of-way within a specified period,
to protect the property and safety of other users of the right-of-way, and to
minimize the disruption and inconvenience to the traveling public. No right-of-
way permit shall be issued to any person who has failed to register pursuant to
§
71.03 of this chapter.
   (K)   Small wireless facility conditions. In addition to division (F) above,
the erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the collocation
of a small wireless facility, or other installation of a small wireless
facility in the right-of-way, shall be subject to the following conditions (a
small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the particular wireless
support structure, under those attachment specifications, and at the height
indicated in the applicable permit application):
      (1)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet in height without the city’s written authorization,
provided that the city may impose a lower height limit in the applicable permit
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, or to protect the right-of-
way and its current use, and further provided that a registrant may replace an
existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a
structure of the same height subject to the conditions or requirements as may
be imposed in the applicable permit;
      (2)   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet above its
wireless support structure;
      (3)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the city may impose separation requirements
between the structure and any existing wireless support structure, or other
facilities in and around the right-of-way;
      (4)   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign, or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, the city may impose reasonable requirements to accommodate
the particular design, appearance, or intended purpose of the structure; and
      (5)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the city may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of the structure.
   (L)   Small wireless facility agreement. A small wireless facility shall
only be collocated on a small wireless support structure owned or controlled by
the city, or any other city asset in the right-of-way, after the applicant has
executed a standard small wireless facility collocation agreement with the
city. The standard collocation agreement may require payment of the following:
      (1)   An amount as set by Council from time to time per year for rent to
collocate on the city structure;
      (2)   Twenty-five dollars per year for maintenance associated with the
collocation;
      (3)   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
         (a)   Seventy-three dollars per radio node less than, or equal to, 100
maximum watts;
         (b)   One-hundred and eighty-two dollars per radio node over 100
maximum watts; and
         (c)   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual cost exceed the
foregoing.
      (4)   The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not
in lieu of, the required small wireless facility permit, provided, however,
that the applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or
franchise in order to collocate. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit
does not supersede, alter, or affect any then-existing agreement between the
city and applicant.
   (M)   Actions on small wireless facility permit applications.
      (1)   The city shall approve or deny a small wireless facility permit
application within 90 days after filing of the application. The small wireless
facility permit, and any associated building permit application, shall be
deemed approved if the city fails to approve or deny the application within the
review periods established in this section.
      (2)   (a)   An applicant may file a consolidated small wireless facility
permit application addressing the proposed collocation of up to 15 small
wireless facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a local government
unit, provided that all small wireless facilities in the application:
            1.   Are located within a two-mile radius;
            2.   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
            3.   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
         (b)   In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application,
the city may approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may
not use denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless
facilities in the application.
      (3)   The 90-day deadline for action on a small wireless facility permit
application may be tolled if:
         (a)   The city receives applications from one or more applicants
seeking approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a
seven-day period. In that case, the city may extend the deadline for all the
applications by 30 days by informing the affected applicants, in writing, of
the extension;
         (b)   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or
information, and the city provides written notice of incompleteness to the
applicant within 30 days of receipt of the application. Upon submission of
additional documents or information, the city shall have ten days to notify the
applicant, in writing, of any still-missing information; or
         (c)   The city and a small wireless facility applicant agrees, in
writing, to toll the review period.
   (N)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall impose an excavation permit fee
in an amount sufficient to record management costs and degradation costs, if
applicable.
   (O)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall impose an obstruction permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover management costs.
   (P)   Small wireless facility permit fee. The city shall impose a small
wireless facility permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover:
      (1)   Management costs; and
      (2)   City engineering, make-ready, and construction costs associated
with collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (Q)   Exceptions. No permit shall be required for the following:
      (1)   Surface landscaping work;
      (2)   Driveways, sidewalks, curb and gutter, and parking lots, street
furnishings, bus stop benches, shelters, posts, and pillars;
      (3)   Snow removal activities;
      (4)   Irrigation systems, provided that the system does not connect
directly to water mains in the right-of-way;
      (5)   Activities of the city except sanitary sewer and water utilities;
and
      (6)   Routine obstruction of the right-of-way for less than eight hours
in total duration, including, without limitation, switching, fuse replacement,
transformer replacement, line guard placement, leak surveys, anode
installations, and inspections.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.06 TIMELINESS OF WORK; SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   The work to be done under the right-of-way permit, and the patching and
restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be completed within
the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days as work could not
be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the permit holder, or
when work was prohibited as unseasonable or unreasonable. If the obstruction or
excavation of the right-of-way begins later, or ends sooner, than the date
given on the permit, the permit holder must notify the city by a supplementary
application of the accurate information as soon as the permit holder knows this
information.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.07 STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION, INSTALLATION.
   (A)   General standards. The excavation, backfilling, patching, and
restoration, and all other work performed in the right-of-way, must be done in
conformance with all applicable Minnesota Rules including, without limitation,
Minn. Rules parts 7819.1100, 7819.500, and 7819.5100, as well as all of the
requirements of this chapter and its other conditions and requirements, insofar
as they are not inconsistent with M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163, as they maybe
amended from time to time. Installation of service laterals must be performed
in accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 7560 and this chapter. The permit holder
shall comply with the following standards when performing the work authorized
under the permit:
      (1)   Take precautions as are necessary to avoid creating unsanitary
conditions. Observe and comply with all laws, rules, and regulations of the
state and city;
      (2)   Conduct the operations and perform the work in a manner as to
ensure the least obstruction to, and interference with, traffic;
      (3)   Take adequate precautions to ensure the safety of the general
public and those who require access to abutting property;
      (4)   Notify adjoining property owners prior to commencement of work
which may disrupt the use of, and access to, the adjoining properties;
      (5)   Comply with the Uniform Traffic Manual for Traffic Control at all
times during construction or installation;
      (6)   Exercise precaution at all times for the protection of persons,
including employees and property;
      (7)   Protect and identify excavations and work operations with barricade
flags and, if required, by flaggers in the daytime and by warning lights at
night;
      (8)   Provide proper trench protection as required by OSHA when
necessary, and depending upon the type of soil, in order to prevent cave-ins
endangering life or tending to enlarge the excavation;
      (9)   Protect the root growth of trees and shrubbery;
      (10)   If possible, provide for space in the installation area for other
telecommunication right-of-way users and companies which install facilities in
public rights-of-way;
      (11)   Maintain access to all properties and cross streets as possible
during construction and installation, and maintain emergency vehicle access at
all times;
      (12)   Maintain alignment and grade unless otherwise authorized by the
city. Changes not approved by the city will require removal and reconstruction;
      (13)   During plowing or trenching of facilities, a warning tape must
also be placed at a depth of 12 inches above copper cables with over 200 pairs,
and above fiber facilities;
      (14)   Below concrete or bituminous-paved road surfaces, directional bore
facilities must be installed in conduit of a type determined by the permit
holder;
      (15)   The placing of all telecommunications facilities must comply with
the National Electric Safety Code, as incorporated by reference in M.S. §
326B.35, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (16)   Locate property lines near right-of-way lines, and replace any
destroyed property corners. A state-licensed surveyor must be used;
      (17)   Excavations, trenches, and jacking pits off the roadway, or
adjacent to the roadway or curbing, shall be sheathed and braced depending upon
location and soil stability, and as directed by the city;
      (18)   Excavating, trenches, and jacking pits shall be protected when
unattended to prevent entrance of surface drainage;
      (19)   All backfilling must be placed in six-inch layers at optimum
moisture and compacted with the objective of attaining 95% of Standard Proctor.
Compaction shall be accomplished with hand, pneumatic, or vibrating compactors
as appropriate;
      (20)   Backfill material shall be subject to the approval of the Planner.
The Planner may permit backfilling with the material from the excavation,
provided the material is granular in nature and acceptable to the Planner;
      (21)   Compacted backfill shall be brought to bottom of the gravel of the
approved street section;
      (22)   Street and pedestrian traffic shall be maintained throughout
construction unless provided otherwise by the permit;
      (23)   No lugs damaging to roadway surfaces may be used;
      (24)   Dirt or debris must be periodically removed during construction;
and
      (25)   Other reasonable standards and requirements of the Planner.
   (B)   Standards for installation of underground utilities. The permit holder
shall comply with the following standards when installing facilities
underground:
      (1)   Underground facilities must be placed as far off the roadway as
possible to provide access from outside of the paved area;
      (2)   Buried fiber facilities shall be at a minimum depth of three feet
and a maximum depth of four feet unless an alternate location is approved in
advance by the Planner. Buried copper facilities below concrete or bituminous-
paved road surfaces must be placed at no less than three feet, but no more than
four feet, deep. Other buried copper facilities must be placed at a minimum
depth of 30 inches and a maximum depth of four feet;
      (3)   Crossing of streets and hard-surfaced driveways shall be
directional bored unless otherwise approved by the Planner;
      (4)   If construction is open cut, the permit holder must install the
visual tracers within 12 inches and over buried facilities. If other
construction methods are used, substitute location methods will be considered;
      (5)   The permit holder shall register with Gopher State One-Call and
comply with the requirements of that system;
      (6)   Compaction in trench shall be 95% of Standard Proctor, and copies
of test results will be submitted to the Planner. Tests will be required at the
discretion of the Planner. Tests must be conducted by an independent testing
firm at locations approved by the Planner. Re-compaction and new tests will be
required if densities are not met;
      (7)   The facilities shall be located so as to avoid traffic signals and
signs which are generally placed a minimum of four feet behind the curb;
      (8)   When utilizing trenchless installation methods to cross an area in
which a municipal utility is located, and when directed by the city, the permit
holder shall excavate an observation hole over the utility to ensure that the
city utility is not damaged;
      (9)   All junction boxes or access points shall be located no closer than
ten feet from city hydrants, valves, manholes, lift stations, or catch basins
unless an alternate location is approved by the city;
      (10)   Underground facilities shall not be installed between a hydrant
and an auxiliary valve;
      (11)   Underground facilities shall not be installed within five feet of
hydrants, valves, lift stations, or manholes in areas where utility easements
exist beyond the right-of-way. In those areas in which no utility easement
exists, placement of an underground facility shall be between the edge of
pavement and no closer than three feet to an existing city utility appurtenance
unless an alternate location is approved by the city;
      (12)   Buried telecommunication facilities must have a locating wire or
conductive shield, except for dielectric cables; and
      (13)   Buried fiber facilities must be placed in a conduit of a type
determined by the right-of-way user unless the permit holder obtains a waiver
from the city.
   (C)   Standards for installation of overhead facilities. The permit holder
shall comply with the following standards when installing facilities overhead:
All wires must be a minimum of 18 feet above ground and at a location that does
not interfere with traffic signals, overhead signs, or street lights.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.08 STANDARDS FOR WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The city desires high quality wireless communication services to
accommodate the needs of residents and businesses. At the same time, the city
strives to minimize the negative impacts that wireless telecommunication
facilities can have on aesthetics and public safety. Due to the many services
that must be delivered within its limited area, the city also strives to avoid
unnecessary encumbrances within the public right-of-way. The city allows and
regulates wireless telecommunication facilities outside of the public right-of-
way through performance standards and height limits. The purpose of this
section is to regulate wireless telecommunication facilities within the public
right-of-way in a manner that balances desire for service with aesthetic,
public safety, and right-of-way flexibility concerns.
      (2)   Public rights-of-way are appropriate locations for wireless
telecommunication facilities that present minimal impacts (for example, small
pole attachments that do not require new poles, do not require pole extensions,
and do not have associated ground-mounted equipment). Wireless
telecommunication facilities that require greater heights than can be afforded
by existing poles in the public right-of-way, and that require ground-mounted
equipment, are more appropriately sited outside the public right-of-way in
accordance with adopted performance standards (§
71.17(F)). However, the city recognizes that as wireless technology advances,
some residential areas of the city may be hard to serve with wireless
technology due to the lack of siting alternatives in the immediate vicinity. In
the areas where no alternative non-right-of-way locations are available,
wireless telecommunication facilities that require pole extensions and ground
equipment will be allowed in the public right-of-way subject to the
requirements of this section which are meant to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare.
   (B)   Wireless telecommunication facilities as pole attachments. Wireless
that complies with the following requirements may be attached to existing
public utility structures within the right-of-way after issuance of a pole
attachment permit:
      (1)   The wireless telecommunication facility shall not extend above the
top of the existing public utility structure, and the height of the existing
public utility structure shall not be increased to accommodate the wireless
telecommunication facility;
      (2)   If the public utility structure must be replaced to structurally
accommodate the wireless telecommunication facility, the replacement public
utility structure height shall not exceed the existing public utility structure
height, and the replacement public utility structure diameter shall not exceed
the existing public utility structure diameter by more than 50%;
      (3)   The wireless telecommunication facility shall not be larger than
three cubic feet, and shall have no individual surface larger than four square
feet;
      (4)   The wireless telecommunication facility shall not extend outward
from the existing pole or tower, or arm thereof, by more than two and one-half
feet, except that an antenna one-half inch in diameter or less may extend an
additional six inches;
      (5)   The wireless telecommunication facility shall include no ground-
mounted equipment within the planned widened rights-of-way;
      (6)   The wireless telecommunication facility shall not interfere with
public safety communications;
      (7)   Wireless telecommunication facilities in the right-of-way shall be
removed and relocated at city request subject to the provisions of this
chapter; and
      (8)   The wireless telecommunication facility shall not block light
emanating from the public utility structure, and shall not otherwise interfere
with the original use of the public utility structure.
   (C)   Wireless telecommunication facilities as pole extensions or with
ground-mounted equipment. Wireless that require increased public utility
structure height, or that have ground-mounted equipment, may be erected in the
public right-of-way only when in compliance with the following provisions, and
after issuance of a pole attachment permit or excavation permit:
      (1)   The applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Planner
or designee that the wireless telecommunication facility cannot be placed in a
code-complying location outside the right-of-way within one-quarter mile of the
proposed location;
      (2)   The replacement public utility structure, including lightning rods
and all other attachments, shall not exceed the height of the existing public
utility structure by more than 15 feet. Once the height of a public utility
structure has been increased under the provisions of this section, the height
shall not be further increased;
      (3)   The replacement public utility structure diameter shall not exceed
the existing public utility structure diameter by more than 50%;
      (4)   The wireless telecommunication facility shall not extend outward
from the public utility structure by more than two feet;
      (5)   If feasible and desirable, as determined by the Planner or
designee, the replacement public utility structure shall match the original and
surrounding public utility structures in materials and color;
      (6)   The wireless telecommunication facility shall not interfere with
public safety communications;
      (7)   A pole attachment or excavation permit for a wireless
telecommunication facility that has ground-mounted equipment will be issued
only if the issuing authority finds the following:
         (a)   The ground-mounted equipment will not disrupt traffic or
pedestrian circulation;
         (b)   The ground-mounted equipment will not create a safety hazard;
         (c)   The location of the ground-mounted equipment minimizes impacts
on adjacent property; and
         (d)   The ground-mounted equipment will not adversely impact the
health, safety, or welfare of the community.
      (8)   Ground-mounted equipment associated with the wireless
telecommunication facility shall meet the following performance standards:
         (a)   Be set back a minimum of ten feet from the planned widened
rights-of-way;
         (b)   Be separated from a sidewalk by a minimum of three feet;
         (c)   Be set back a minimum of 50 feet from the nearest intersecting
right-of-way line;
         (d)   Be separated from the nearest ground-mounted wireless
telecommunication equipment installation on the same block face by a minimum of
330 feet unless the equipment is placed underground;
         (e)   If located adjacent to residential uses, ground-mounted
equipment shall be limited to three feet in height above grade and 27 cubic
feet in cumulative size;
         (f)   If located adjacent to non-residential uses, ground-mounted
equipment shall be limited to five feet in height above grade and 81 cubic feet
in cumulative size;
         (g)   Ground-mounted equipment located outside the planned widened
public right-of-way; and
         (h)   Vegetative or other screening compatible with the surrounding
area shall be provided around the ground-mounted equipment if deemed necessary
by the Planner or designee.
      (9)   Wireless telecommunication facilities in the right-of-way shall be
removed and relocated at city request subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   New poles. The erection in the right-of-way of a new pole to support
wireless telecommunication facilities is not allowed, except as a replacement
of an existing public utility structure subject to the requirements of this
section.
   (E)   Charges. In addition to the permit fees in an amount as set by Council
from time to time, the city reserves the right to charge telecommunication
providers for their use of the public right-of-way to the extent that the
charges are allowed under state law. Telecommunication providers shall be
responsible for payment of property taxes attributable to his or her equipment
in the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.09 PATCHING, RESTORATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   General. The permit holder shall patch his or her own work. The work
to be done under the excavation permit, and the patching and restoration of the
right-of-way as required herein, must be completed within the dates specified
in the permit unless the permit holder is granted a new permit or an extension
of the initial permit by the Planner pursuant to §
71.05(B).
   (B)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, the permit
holder shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, during the 24
months following the restoration, the pavement settles due to the permit
holder’s improper backfilling, the permit holder shall pay to the city, within
30 days of billing, all costs associated with having to correct the defective
work. At the time of initial permit application, the permit holder must
indicate whether or not he or she is electing to pay the degradation fee in
lieu of restoration.
   (C)   Holder restoration. If the holder restores the right-of-way, he or she
shall, at the time of application for a right-of-way permit, post security in
the form determined by the Planner, such as a performance bond, letter of
credit, or cash deposit in an amount determined by the Planner to be sufficient
to cover the cost of restoration. Any performance bond or letter of credit must
be approved by the City Attorney. If, within 24 months after completion of
restoration of the right-of-way, the Planner determines the right-of-way has
been properly restored, the posted security will be released.
   (D)   Standards. The permit holder shall perform patching and restoration.
   (E)   Guarantees. If the permit holder performs the restoration work, the
permit holder shall guarantee the work and its maintenance for 24 months
following its completion. During this 24-month period, he or she shall, upon
notification from the Planner, correct all restoration work to the extent
necessary, using the method required by the Planner commencing the restoration
work within two days of receipt of the notice and completing the restoration
work within 14 days thereafter, not including days during which work cannot be
done because of circumstances constituting force majeure, or days when work is
prohibited as unseasonable or unreasonable in the determination of the Planner.
   (F)   Failure to restore. If the permit holder fails to restore the right-
of-way in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city shall notify the permit holder, in writing, of the specific alleged
failure or failures, and shall allow the permit holder five business days from
receipt of the written notice to cure the failure or failures, unless otherwise
extended by the Planner. In the event the permit holder fails to cure, the city
may, at its option, perform the necessary work, and the permit holder shall pay
to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way,
including all staff and administrative costs, his or her overhead, and fringe
benefits. If the permit holder fails to pay as required, the city may recover
its costs from the posted security.
   (G)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for replacing and compacting the
subgrade and aggregate based material in the excavation, and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.10 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   The permit holder must obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and approvals, and pay all fees required. The permit holder shall comply with
all requirements of local, state, and federal laws, including, but not limited
to, M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09 (“Gopher State One-Call Excavation Notice
System”), as they may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Chapter
7560. A permit holder shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable
codes and established rules and regulations, and is responsible for all work
done in the right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the
work. Applicants obtaining the county or State Department of Transportation
excavating permits for facilities in his or her rights-of-way located within
the city must provide a copy of each permit to the Planner.
   (B)   Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the Planner, no
right-of-way excavation or obstruction may be done when seasonally prohibited,
or when conditions are unreasonable for the work.
   (C)   A permit holder shall not so obstruct a right-of-way that the natural
free and clear passage of water through the gutters or other waterways shall be
interfered with unless approved by the Planner. Private vehicles of those doing
work in the right-of-way may not be parked within, or next to, a permit area
unless parked in conformance with city parking regulations. The loading and
unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area unless
specifically authorized by the permit.
   (D)   A permit holder shall implement traffic control measures in the area
of the work, and shall use traffic control procedures in accordance with the
most recent manuals on uniform traffic control, traffic control devices, and
traffic zone layouts published by the state.
   (E)   As a condition of all applicable permits, permit holders employing
trenchless excavation methods, including, but not limited to, horizontal
directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in M.S. Chapter
216D, as it may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Chapter 7560, and
shall require potholing or open cutting over existing underground utilities
before excavating, as determined by the Planner, in order to determine the
precise location of marked underground utilities before excavating. In
addition, permit holders employing trenchless excavation methods shall not
install facilities at a depth greater than four feet below grade, unless
specifically approved by the Planner.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.11 DENIAL, REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements
and conditions of this chapter, or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare, or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
      (2)   The Planner may deny a permit based on any of the following
grounds:
         (a)   Failure to register pursuant to §
71.03;
         (b)   The applicant is subject to revocation of a prior permit issued
pursuant to this chapter;
         (c)   The proposed schedule for work would conflict or interfere with
an exhibition, celebration, festival, or any other similar event;
         (d)   The proposed schedule conflicts with scheduled, or total or
partial, reconstruction of the right-of-way;
         (e)   The applicant fails to comply with the requirements of this
chapter or other provisions of this ordinance;
         (f)   The proposed excavation within a street or sidewalk surface has
been constructed or reconstructed within the preceding five years, unless the
Planner determines that no other locations are feasible or that an emergency
exists necessitating the excavation;
         (g)   The Planner determines that the right-of-way would become unduly
congested with the installation of the proposed facilities and equipment
associated therewith;
         (h)   Adjacent or nearby business or residential uses would be
unreasonably disrupted; and/or
         (i)   The Planner determines that denial is necessary to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the public, or protect the right-of-way and its
current use.
   (B)   The denial or revocation of a permit must be made in writing, and must
document the basis for the denial. The city must notify the applicant or right-
of-way user, in writing, within three business days of the decision to deny or
revoke a permit. If an application is denied, the right-of-way user may address
the reasons for denial identified by the city and resubmit his or her
application. If the application is resubmitted within 30 days of receipt of the
notice of denial, no additional application fee shall be imposed. The city must
approve or deny the resubmitted application within 30 days after submission.
   (C)   The Planner or designee may revoke a right-of-way permit without a fee
refund if there is a substantial breach of the terms or conditions of any
statute, this chapter, rule, or regulation, or any condition of the permit. A
substantial breach of a permit holder shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the permit;
      (2)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
permit;
      (3)   The failure to maintain the required bonds or other security and
insurance;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner;
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to applicable standards, conditions, or codes upon inspection and
notification by the city of the faulty condition;
      (6)   An evasion, or attempt to evade, any material provision of the
right-of-way permit, or the perpetration, or attempt to perpetrate, any fraud
or deceit upon the city or its citizens; and/or
      (7)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of any
applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations, including
any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   If the Planner or designee determines that a permit holder has
committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute, this
chapter, rule, or regulation, or any condition of the permit, the Planner shall
make a written demand upon the permit holder to remedy the violation and
provide proof thereof, within the period of time specified, or be subject to
potential revocation of the permit. The Planner may impose additional or
revised conditions on the permit to mitigate or remedy the breach.
   (E)   If a permit is revoked, the permit holder shall reimburse the city for
its reasonable costs, including restoration costs and the costs of collection,
and reasonable attorney fees incurred in connection with the revocation.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.12 EMERGENCIES; WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the Planner, in addition to
Gopher State One-Call, of any event regarding his or her facilities which he or
she considers to be an emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever
actions are necessary to respond to the emergency. If the registrant has not
been issued the required permit within two business days after the occurrence
of the emergency, the registrant shall apply for the necessary permits, pay the
permit fees, and fulfill the remaining requirements necessary to bring himself
or herself into compliance with this chapter for the actions he or she took in
response to the emergency.
   (B)   If the Planner becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant’s
facilities, the Planner shall attempt to contact the local representative of
each registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. The
Planner may take whatever action deemed necessary to respond to the emergency,
the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities occasioned
the emergency.
   (C)   Except in an emergency, any person who, without first having obtained
the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a right-of-way must subsequently
obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the normal fee for the permit, and
shall deposit with the Planner the fees requested to correct any damage to the
right-of-way and to comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.13 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Site inspection. The permit holder shall make the work site available
to the Planner and to all others authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of, and upon completion of, the work.
   (B)   Authority of Planner.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Planner may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Planner may issue an order to the permit holder for any work
which does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable
standards, conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct
the violation within a stated deadline will be cause for revocation of the
permit. If the violation is not corrected within the stated deadline, the
Planner may revoke the permit. If the work failure constitutes a substantial
breach of the terms and conditions of state law, city ordinance, rule, or
regulation, or any material condition of the permit, the order shall state that
failure to correct the violation, and provide proof thereof, within the period
of time specified by the Planner will result in revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.14 APPEAL.
   (A)   Filing of appeal. Any person aggrieved by the denial of a permit
application; the denial of a registration; the revocation of a permit; the
application of the fee schedule imposed in an amount as set by Council from
time to time; or disputes a determination of the Planner regarding the method
of providing accurate information about the location of service laterals
installed on the property pursuant to §
71.15(D) of this chapter, may appeal to the City Council by filing a written
notice of appeal with the City Administrator. The notice must be filed within
20 days of the action causing the appeal.
   (B)   Notice of hearing. The City Council shall hear the appeal at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, unless the time is extended by agreement of the
parties. Notice of the date, time, place, and purpose of the hearing shall be
mailed to the appellant.
   (C)   Hearing and decision. The City Council shall, at the hearing, consider
any evidence offered by the appellant, the Planner, and any other person
wishing to be heard. The Council shall issue a written decision within 30 days
of the completion of the hearing supported by written findings.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.15 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant, permit holder, or any other
person installing any underground facility or equipment that is now, or in the
future, to be connected to the city’s underground facilities must provide to-
scale engineering plans certifying the “as-built” location of all equipment
installed, owned, or maintained by the registrant, permit holder, or other
underground installer in a form required by the Planner. The maps and drawings
must include the horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and
equipment in a manner that is consistent with the city’s electronic mapping
system whenever practical or when ordered by the Planner. Failure to provide
the maps and drawings required by this section shall, in addition to other
remedies, constitute adequate grounds for revocation of the permit holder’s
registration and any permit issued under this chapter. No security required
pursuant to §
71.05(I) shall be released until the information required under this section is
provided. The maps and drawings must include the following information:
      (1)   Scaled drawings showing the exact location of all facilities and
improvements installed by the applicant. The applicant will be requested to
submit, in English measurement: two paper copies of 50-scale plans, and one
electronic plan in AutoCAD format with X, Y, Z dimensions to one-foot accuracy.
The plans must be dimensional and show all utilities, curb and gutter,
sidewalks, bikeways, signal poles, driveways, boxes, and structures. If the
applicant chooses to submit this data in a different format, he or she shall be
responsible for the additional payment of the data conversion fee in an amount
as set by Council from time to time;
      (2)   The type and size of the utility;
      (3)   A description showing above-ground appurtenances;
      (4)   A legend explaining symbols, characters, abbreviations, scale, and
other data shown on the map; and
      (5)   Any facilities to be abandoned, if applicable, in conformance with
M.S. § 216D.04, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Submittal requirement.
      (1)   Within 30 days after the acquisition, installation, or construction
of additional equipment or facilities, or any relocation, abandonment, or
disuse of existing equipment or facilities, each registrant shall submit the
mapping data required herein.
      (2)   Within two years after the effective date of this section, all
telecommunication right-of-way users shall submit detailed plans, if available,
in accordance with division (A) above, for all facilities and equipment
installed, used, or abandoned within the public right-of-way.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, mapping data shall be submitted by
all registrants for all equipment and facilities which are to be installed or
constructed after the effective date of this section at any time any permits
are sought pursuant to this chapter.
      (4)   Six months after the effective date of this section, a new
registrant or a registrant which has not submitted a plan as required under
division (B)(2) above shall submit complete and accurate mapping data for all
its equipment and facilities at the time any permits are sought pursuant to
this chapter.
   (C)   Trade secret information. At the request of any registrant,
information requested by the city which qualifies as “trade secret” data under
M.S. § 13.37, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be treated as trade
secret information as detailed therein.
   (D)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules part
7560.0150, subpart 2, shall require the use of appropriate means of
establishing the vertical and horizontal locations of installed service
laterals, to the extent technically feasible, as determined by the Planner.
Permit holders, or his or her subcontractors, must submit to the Planner
evidence satisfactory to the Planner of the installed service lateral
locations. Compliance with this division (D) and with applicable Gopher State
One-Call Law and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after
December 31, 2005, shall be a condition to city approval of:
      (1)   Payment to contractors working on a city improvement projects,
including those under M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time;
and
      (2)   City approval of performance under development agreements, or other
subdivision or site plan approval under M.S. Chapter 462, as it may be amended
from time to time. Each utility shall utilize the appropriate means and methods
of providing to the city accurate location of the newly-installed, or
applicable repair to, service laterals, subject to the approval of the Planner.
Failure to provide prompt and accurate information on the service laterals
installed may result in the city’s withholding of applicable approvals, or in
the revocation of the permit issued for the applicable work, or for future
permits to the offending permit holder or his or her subcontractor.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.16 UNDERGROUND FACILITIES; LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Location of facilities; undergrounding. Within the city where the city
determines that underground location and relocation, installation, and
reinstallation of facilities in the right-of-way, or in or on other public
ground, promotes the safe travel of the public over the right-of-way, the
safety of homes and buildings in the vicinity, or the orderly development of
the city, the city may direct that any construction and installation of new
facilities, and the replacement of old facilities, shall be done underground,
or contained within buildings or other structures in conformity with applicable
codes. Telecommunications right-of-way users may attach equipment and
facilities to existing poles and structures maintained by a service or utility
service. This section is intended to be enforced consistently with state and
federal law regulating right-of-way users, specifically including, but not
limited to, M.S. §§ 161.45, 237.162, 237.163, 301B.01, 222.37, 238.084, and
216B.36, as they may be amended from time to time, and the Telecommunications
Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. §§ 253 et seq.
   (B)   Purpose. The City Council finds it is in the public interest, and
necessary for the comfort and convenience of the city, that all equipment or
facilities newly installed, reinstalled, located, or relocated, or newly
constructed or reconstructed facilities in the public right-of-way, or in other
public property, be placed underground in order to promote and preserve the
health, safety, and general welfare of the public, and to assure the orderly
development of the city except for antenna and pole-mounted equipment.
   (C)   Undergrounding required. Where directed by the city, newly installed,
reinstalled, located, or relocated, or newly constructed or reconstructed
facilities in the public right-of-way, or in other public property held in
common for public use, must be located and maintained underground pursuant to
the terms and conditions of this section, and in accordance with applicable
construction standards, subject to the following exceptions: above-ground
installation, construction, modification, or replacement of meters, gauges,
transformers, street lighting, pad mount switches, capacitor banks, reclosers,
and service connection pedestals.
   (D)   Exceptions to undergrounding. The following exceptions to the strict
application of this section may be allowed, at the discretion of the city upon
the conditions stated:
      (1)   Above-ground installation, construction, or placement of those
facilities commonly referred to as “high voltage transmission lines” shall be
allowed unless the Council requires undergrounding of the facilities after
providing the right-of-way user notice and an opportunity to be heard. This
provision shall not be construed as waiving the requirements of any other
ordinance or regulation of the city as the same may apply to any proposed
project;
      (2)   Above-ground installation, construction, or placement of facilities
shall be allowed in residential, commercial, and industrial areas where the
Council finds that:
         (a)   Underground placement would place an undue financial burden upon
the landowner, ratepayers, or right-of-way user, or would deprive the landowner
of the preservation and enjoyment of substantial property rights;
         (b)   Underground placement is impractical or not technically feasible
due to topographical, subsoil, or other existing conditions which adversely
affect underground facilities placement; or
         (c)   Failure to promote the purposes of undergrounding. The right-of-
way user clearly and convincingly demonstrates that none of the purposes under
this section would be advanced by underground placement of facilities on the
project in question, or the city determines on its own review that
undergrounding is not warranted based on the circumstances of the proposed
undergrounding.
      (3)   Above-ground installation, construction, or placement of temporary
service lines shall only be allowed:
         (a)   During new construction of any project for a period not to
exceed three months;
         (b)   During an emergency in order to safeguard lives or property
within the city; or
         (c)   For a period of not more than seven months when soil conditions
make excavation impractical.
   (E)   Appeal. Within 30 days after a decision by the Planner requiring the
undergrounding of utilities, equipment, or facilities, any person requesting a
waiver based upon one of the foregoing exceptions may appeal to the City
Council for a determination. Any appeal must be in writing and filed in the
office of the City Administrator. If no timely appeal is made, the decision of
the Planner shall become final.
   (F)   Existing utilities. 
      (1)   The City Council may, from time to time, conduct public hearings to
ascertain whether the public necessity, convenience, health, or safety requires
the removal of poles and overhead lines, and associated overhead structures
from some designated areas of the city. For this purpose, the city shall notify
all affected property owners, as shown in the last recorded tax roll of the
city affected by the utility, by mail of the time and place of the hearing at
least 30 days prior to the date thereof. If, after the hearing, the City
Council finds that the public necessity, convenience, health, or safety
requires the removal, the Council shall, by ordinance amending this chapter,
declare an area as an underground utility district.
      (2)   The ordinance shall include a description of the area comprising
the district, and shall fix the time within which the poles and overhead lines,
and associated overhead structures, must be removed, and within which affected
property owners must be ready to receive underground service. The Council shall
allow a reasonable time for the removal, having due regard for the availability
of necessary labor, material, and equipment for the removal, and for the
installation of the underground facilities as may be occasioned thereby. After
the hearing described herein and adoption of the resulting ordinance, the city
shall cause to be delivered to all affected persons notice of the requirements
of the ordinance.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.17 RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Rule. When directed by the city, a right-of-way user shall promptly
and, at his or her own expense, with due regard for seasonal working
conditions, permanently remove and relocate his or her facilities in the right-
of-way when it is necessary to prevent interference, and not merely for the
convenience of the city, in connection with:
         (a)   A present or future city use of the right-of-way for a public
project;
         (b)   The public health or safety; or
         (c)   The safety and convenience of travel over the right-of-way.
      (2)   Restoration. The registrant shall restore any rights-of-way to the
condition it was in prior to removal and relocation. Placement, location, and
relocation of facilities must comply with the Act, with other applicable law,
and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100, 7819.5000, and 7819.5100, to the extent
the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Relocation schedule notification procedure. The Planner shall notify
the registrant or permit holder at least three months in advance of the need to
relocate existing facilities. The Planner shall provide a second notification
to the registrant or permit holder one month before the date by which the
relocation must be completed. To the extent technically feasible, all utilities
must be relocated within one month or in a time frame determined by the
Planner.
   (C)   Delay to city project. If the owner fails to meet the relocation
schedule due to circumstances within the utility’s control, the city may charge
the utility owner for all costs incurred by the city because the relocation is
not completed in the scheduled time frame.
   (D)   Joint trenching. All facilities shall be placed in appropriate
portions of the right-of-way so as to cause minimum conflict with other
underground facilities. When technically appropriate and no safety hazards are
created, all utilities shall be installed, constructed, or placed within the
same trench. Notwithstanding the foregoing, gas and electric lines shall be
placed in conformance with Minn. Rules part 7819.5100, subd. 2, governing
safety standards.
   (E)   Corridors. The city may assign a specific area within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that are or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
be, located within the right-of-way.
      (1)   All excavation, obstruction, or other permits issued by the city
involving the installation or replacement of facilities shall designate the
proper corridor for the facilities at issue. A typical crossing section of the
location for utilities may be on file at the Planner’s office. This section is
not intended to establish “high density corridors”.
      (2)   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the city may remain at that
location until the city requires facilities relocation to the corridor pursuant
to relocation authority granted under Minn. Rules part 7819.3100 or other
applicable law.
   (F)   Limitation of space. To protect the public health, safety, and
welfare, or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the
city shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or
additional facilities within the right-of-way. In making the decisions, the
city shall strive, to the extent possible, to accommodate all existing and
potential users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by
considerations of the public interest, the public’s needs for the particular
utility service, the condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with
respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the
right-of-way, and future city plans for public improvements and development
projects which have been determined to be in the public interest.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.18 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATIONS.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01 through
216D.09 (“One-Call Excavation Notice System”), as they may be amended from time
to time, and Minn. Rules part 7560.0150, before the start date of any right-of-
way excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the area to
be excavated shall be responsible to mark the horizontal placement of all the
facilities, to the extent technically feasible. To the extent his or her
records contain the information, each registrant shall provide information
regarding the approximate vertical location of his or her facilities to
excavators upon request. Nothing in this section is meant to limit the rights,
duties, and obligations of the facility owners or excavators as set forth in
M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.19 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   (A)   When the Planner does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary
to maintain, support, or move a registrants’ facilities to carry out the work,
while reducing the likelihood of damage to the registrant’s facilities, the
city shall notify the registrant as soon as reasonably possible. The city’s
costs associated therewith will be billed to the registrant, and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing.
   (B)   Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any
facilities in the right-of-way which his or her facilities damage. Each
registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any damage to the
facilities of another registrant caused during the city’s response to an
emergency occasioned by that registrants’ facilities.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.20 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   (A)   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way which
contains the equipment or facilities of a registrant or permit holder, and if
the vacation does not require the relocation of the registrant’s or holder’s
equipment or facilities, the city shall reserve, to and for itself, and all
registrants or permit holders having equipment and facilities in the vacated
right-of-way, the right to install, maintain, and operate any equipment and
facilities in the vacated right-of-way, and to enter upon the right-of-way at
any time for the purpose of reconstruction, inspecting, maintaining, or
repairing the same.
   (B)   Relocation of facilities. If the vacation requires the relocation of
the registrant’s or holder’s equipment or facilities; and if the vacation
proceedings are initiated by the registrant or permit holder, the registrant or
permit holder must pay the relocation costs; if the vacation proceedings are
initiated by the city, the registrant or permit holder must pay the relocation
costs unless otherwise agreed to by the city and the registrant or permit
holder; or if the vacation proceedings are initiated by a person or persons
other than the registrant or permit holder, the person or persons must pay the
relocation costs.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.21 DISCONTINUED, UNUSABLE EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue operations in the city must either:
      (1)   Provide information satisfactory to the Planner that the
registrant’s obligations for his or her equipment and facilities in the right-
of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by another registrant; or
      (2)   Submit to the Planner an action plan for the removal or
discontinuance of equipment and facilities. The Planner shall require removal
of the equipment and facilities if the Planner determines the removal is
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. The Planner may
require the registrant to submit a surety consisting of an irrevocable letter
of credit or a cash deposit to be held in escrow in an amount sufficient to
reimburse the city for reasonably anticipated costs to be incurred in removing
the equipment and facilities.
   (B)   Discontinued facilities. A right-of-way user shall notify the city
when facilities are to be discontinued. A right-of-way user that has
discontinued facilities in a right-of-way shall remove them from that right-of-
way during the next scheduled city excavation if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repairs, excavation, or construction, unless this
requirement is waived by the city.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.22 INDEMNIFICATION, LIABILITY.
   By registering with the Planner, or by accepting a permit granted under this
chapter, a registrant or permit holder agrees as follows:
   (A)   Limitation of liability. By reason of the acceptance of a registration
or the grant of a right-of-way permit, the city does not assume any liability:
      (1)   For injuries to persons, damage to property, or loss of service
claims by parties other than the registrant or the city; or
      (2)   For claims or penalties of any sort resulting from the
installation, presence, maintenance, or operation of equipment or facilities by
registrants or permit holders, or activities of registrants or permit holders.
   (B)   Indemnification. 
      (1)   A registrant or permit holder shall indemnify, keep, and hold the
city, its officials, employees, and agents free and harmless from any and all
costs, liabilities, and claims for damages of any kind arising out of the
construction, presence, installation, maintenance, repair, or operation of his
or her equipment and facilities, or out of any activity undertaken in, or near,
a right-of-way, whether or not any act or omission complained of is authorized,
allowed, or prohibited by a right-of-way permit. The foregoing does not
indemnify the city for its own negligence except for claims arising out of, or
alleging, the city’s negligence in issuing the permit, or in failing to
properly or adequately inspect or enforce compliance with a term, condition, or
purpose of a permit. This section is not, as to third parties, a waiver of any
defense or immunity otherwise available to the registrant, permit holder, or
the city, and the registrant or permit holder, in defending any action on
behalf of the city, shall be entitled to assert in any action every defense or
immunity that the city could assert on its own behalf.
      (2)   If the registrant or permit holder is required to indemnify and
defend, he or she shall thereafter have control of the litigation, but the
registrant or permit holder may not settle the litigation without the consent
of the city. The consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.23 FRANCHISE HOLDERS.
   If there is a conflict in language between the franchise of a person holding
a franchise agreement with the city and this chapter, the terms of the
franchise shall prevail.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor under state law. In addition, violations may result in future
permit or registration revocation and ineligibility. Failure to pay all
applicable fees incurred hereunder shall be grounds for registration or permit
revocation and ineligibility.
(Ord. 277, passed 11-13-2017)
CHAPTER 72: SPECIAL USE VEHICLES: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, UTILITY TASK VEHICLES,
AND MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Permitted uses
   
72.03   Crossing of streets, highways
   
72.04   Traffic ordinances applicable
   
72.05   Yielding right-of-way
   
72.06   Operations; persons under the age of 12 or 16
   
72.07   Hours of operation
   
72.08   Equipment required
   
72.09   Special use vehicle operator's permit application
   
72.10   Permit fees
   
72.11   Permit revocation and administrative fines
   
72.12   Exemptions
   
72.13   No assumption of liability
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. As defined by M.S. § 84.92, subd. 8, a motorized
vehicle with: (1) not less than three, but not more than six low pressure or
non-pneumatic tires; (2) a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less; and (3) a
total width from outside of tire rim to outside of tire rim of 65 inches or
less. ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES include class 1 all-terrain vehicles and class 2
all-terrain vehicles. ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES do not include electric assisted
bicycles, golf carts, mini-trucks, dune buggies, go-carts, or vehicles designed
and used specifically for lawn or property maintenance, agriculture, or logging
purposes.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. As defined by M.S. § 84.92, subd. 9,
an all-terrain vehicle that has a total width from outside of tire rim to
outside of tire rim that is 50 inches or less.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. As defined by M.S. § 84.92, subd. 10,
an all-terrain vehicle that has a total width from outside of tire rim to
outside of tire rim that is greater than 50 inches but not more than 65 inches.
   GOLF CARTS. Motor vehicles that are designed and manufactured for operation
on a golf course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable
of exceeding 20 miles per hour
   NATURAL TERRAIN. Areas other than roadways, driveways (private or public),
parking lots, and other areas, the surface of which has been intentionally
modified for motor vehicle operation thereon.
   OPERATE. To ride or have control of the operations of an ATV/UTV.
   OPERATOR/DRIVERS. Every person who operates, or is in actual physical
control of, an ATV/UTV/golf cart and who is entitled to the use or possession
of the ATV/UTV/golf cart.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having the property in, or title
to, a special use vehicle and is entitled to the use or possession of the
special use vehicle.
   SPECIAL USE VEHICLE. All-terrain vehicles, utility task vehicles and golf
carts for the purpose of this chapter.
   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE (UTV). As defined by M.S. § 169.045, subd. 1(3), a
utility task vehicle means a side-by-side, or four-wheel drive, or off-road
vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an internal combustion engine
with a piston displacement capacity of 1,200 cubic centimeters or less, and has
a total dry weight of 1,800 but less than 2,600 pounds.
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.02 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   No person shall operate an all-terrain, utility task vehicle, or golf
cart on city streets without obtaining a special use vehicle operator's permit
as provided herein.
   (B)   Every driver of an all-terrain, utility task vehicle, or golf cart
shall have the special use vehicle operator's permit in immediate possession at
all times when operating an all-terrain, utility task vehicle, or golf cart on
city streets.
   (C)   Drivers may only operate special use vehicles that have been listed on
the permit application and approved by the city. Each approved special use
vehicles will be issued a City of Braham special use vehicle registration
sticker which must be displayed on the rear of the ATV/UTV or golf cart while
it is operating on city streets.
   (D)   No person shall operate a special use vehicle installed with tracks on
city streets.
   (E)   Operators shall operate all-terrain vehicles, including class 1 and
class 2, utility task vehicles, and golf carts on the right shoulder or the
extreme right-hand side of any city street. Drivers of all-terrain vehicles and
golf carts should pull over to the extreme right hand side of the roadway or
stop to allow motor vehicles to safely pass them.
   (F)   All drivers who were born after July 1, 1987, must have successfully
completed the independent study course component of all-terrain vehicle safety
training before operating an all-terrain vehicle on public roads including city
streets (M.S. § 84.925, subd. 5).
   (G)   Every person operating a special use vehicle under permit on city
streets has all the rights and duties applicable to the driver of any other
vehicle under the provisions of this chapter, except when those provisions
cannot reasonably be applied to all-terrain vehicles, utility task vehicles or
golf carts and except as otherwise specifically provided in M.S. § 169.045,
subd. 7.
   (H)   Every person leaving a special use vehicle in a public place or on a
public street shall lock the ignition and remove and take the keys with them.
   (I)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a special use vehicle as
listed below:
      (1)   On any land not owned by the person for the purpose of operating a
special use vehicle after being notified, either orally or by written or posted
notice, by the owner, occupant, or lessee not to do so;
      (2)   On the roadway, shoulder, or inside bank or slope of a public road
right-of-way of a trunk, county state-aid, or county highway unless in
accordance with M.S. § 84.928. A person shall not operate an all-terrain
vehicle within the public road right-of-way of a trunk, county state-aid, or
county highway from April 1 to August 1 in the agricultural zone unless the
vehicle is being used exclusively as transportation to and from work on
agricultural lands;
      (3)   On publicly owned land, including schools, park property,
playgrounds, recreation areas, golf courses and greenways, except where
specifically permitted;
      (4)   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise
that disturbs, annoys, or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons;
      (5)   On a public sidewalk, walkway, walking path, or bike trail provided
or used for pedestrian or bicycle travel;
      (6)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor, narcotics, or
habit forming drugs;
      (7)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the
surrounding circumstances. All-terrain vehicles and utility task vehicles shall
not exceed 20 miles per hour on city streets;
      (8)   At any place in a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to
endanger or likely to endanger any person or property or to cause injury or
damage thereto;
      (9)   On any city street or public road right-of-way of a trunk, county
state-aid, or county highway unless the all-terrain vehicle or utility task
vehicle is properly registered with the Department of Natural Resources (DNR)
pursuant to M.S. § 84.922;
      (10)   On any city street unless the special use vehicle has liability
insurance in compliance with the provisions of M.S. § 169.045 and M.S. §
65B.48, subd. 5;
      (11)   To intentionally drive, chase, run over, or kill any animal, wild
or domestic;
      (12)   By halting any special use vehicle carelessly or heedlessly in
disregard of the rights or the safety of others or in a manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property;
      (13)   While carrying more passengers than the special use vehicle is
designed for;
      (14)   While having a driver's license that is currently revoked,
suspended, or canceled due to an alcohol, controlled substance, or intoxicating
substance violation pursuant to M.S. § 84.765, subd. 2(c);
      (15)   While towing any person or thing except through the use of a rigid
tow bar attached to the rear of the all-terrain vehicle or utility task
vehicle; and
      (16)   Motorized golf carts shall display the slow-moving vehicle emblem
provided for in section M.S. § 169.522 when operated on designated roadways as
per M.S. § 169.045, subd. 4.
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.03 CROSSING OF STREETS, HIGHWAYS.
   All special use vehicles may cross any street or highway intersecting a city
street provided:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the road and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick and
safe crossing;
   (B)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the shoulder
or main traveled way of the road;
   (C)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
   (D)   In crossing a divided road, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of the road with another public road.
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.04 TRAFFIC ORDINANCES APPLICABLE.
   City and state traffic regulations shall apply to the operation of ATV/UTVs
and golf carts upon streets and highways, except for: those relating to
required equipment; those which, by their nature, have no application; and
those inconsistent with the provisions in this chapter.
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.05 YIELDING RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No special use vehicle shall enter any intersection without yielding the
right-of-way to any vehicle or pedestrians at the intersection, or so cross the
intersection as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.06 OPERATIONS; PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 12 OR 16.
   (A)   No person under the age of 12 shall operate an all-terrain, utility
task vehicle, or golf cart on city streets.
   (B)   Youths 12 to 15 years of age may operate a class 1 all-terrain vehicle
on city streets under the following conditions:
      (1)   Must have a valid city permit;
      (2)   Must have successfully completed an ATV safety course and possess a
valid ATV certificate; and
      (3)   Must be accompanied by a parent or legal guardian with a valid city
permit. The parent or legal guardian can be a passenger or riding on a separate
ATV.
   (C)   Youths under 16 of age may not operate a class 2 ATV, utility task
vehicle, or golf cart on city streets.
   (D)   Youths 16 and 17 years of age or older may operate a class 1 or class
2 all-terrain vehicle, a utility task vehicle, or a golf cart on city streets
under the following conditions:
      (1)   Must have a valid city permit;
      (2)   Must have successfully completed an ATV safety course and possess a
valid ATV certificate to operate an ATV;
   (E)   Drivers and passengers less than 18 years of age must wear a safety
helmet approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety and wear a seatbelt (if
equipped) in accordance with division (F).
   (F)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate an all-terrain vehicle,
utility task vehicle, or golf cart if the person cannot:
      (1)   Properly reach and control the handlebars and reach the foot pegs
while sitting upright on the seat of an all-terrain vehicle with, straddle-
style seating;
      (2)   Properly reach the steering wheel and foot controls of an all-
terrain vehicle with side-by-side-style seating, or a golf cart while sitting
upright in the seat with the seat belt fully engaged.
   (G)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate a special use vehicle
while carrying a passenger except for a parent or lawful guardian. The number
of occupants on any special use vehicle may not exceed the designed occupant
load.
   (H)   Parents and/or legal guardians shall not allow their minor children to
operate special use vehicles in violation of this chapter (M.S. § 84.9256,
subd. 2).
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Special use vehicles may only be operated on city streets from sunrise to
sunset unless they are equipped with functional and original equipment
headlights, taillights, and rear-facing brake lights. Except when used for snow
removal, special use vehicles shall not be operated on city streets in
inclement weather or when visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or
other conditions, or at any time when there is insufficient visibility to
clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.08 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a special use vehicle at any place
within the limits of the city unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers are required and shall be properly attached and in
constant operation to reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum
necessary for operation. No person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass,
straight pipe, or similar device on an all-terrain or utility task vehicle
motor. The exhaust system shall not emit or produce a sharp popping or
crackling sound;
   (B)   Brakes, that are operational by either hand or foot, are required and
shall be adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold under any
conditions of operation;
   (C)   All-terrain and utility task vehicles must have a functioning
headlight, taillight, and stoplight if so equipped;
   (D)   Special use vehicles must have a rearview mirror so located as to
reflect to the driver a view of the highway for a distance of at least 200 feet
(M.S. § 169.70); and
   (E)   Properly licensed within the state.
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.09 SPECIAL USE VEHICLE OPERATOR'S PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
city and shall contain all of the following information:
      (1)   Name, DOB, and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Nature of any physical handicap of the applicant, if any, that may
limit the applicant's ability to operate an all-terrain or utility task vehicle
(s);
      (3)   Model name, make, year, DNR registration number, and current
liability insurance for all of the all-terrain or utility task vehicles that
the applicant intends to operate on city streets. Each approved special use
vehicle will be issued a City of Braham special use vehicle registration
sticker which must be displayed on the rear of the UTV/ATV or golf cart while
it is operating on city streets;
      (4)   Copy of ATV certificate or driver's license/ID card that has a
valid all-terrain vehicle safety certificate indicator (if applicant was born
after July 1, 1987);
      (5)   Parent and/or guardian information and acknowledgment of parent/
guardian consent for permit (if applicant is under 18 years of age); and
      (6)   Any other information as the city may require.
   (B)   Operator permits shall be granted for a period of three years and may
be renewed.
   (C)   No operator permit shall be granted or renewed if the permit
application is deemed incomplete and unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The applicant must provide evidence of liability insurance in
compliance with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes concerning insurance
coverage for every special use vehicle they operate on city streets (M.S. §
169.045 and M.S. § 65B.48, subd. 5);
      (2)   The applicant may be required to submit a certificate signed by a
physician that the applicant is able to safely operate a special use vehicle;
and
      (3)   The applicant must not hold a driver's license that is currently
revoked, suspended, or canceled due to an alcohol, controlled substance, or
intoxicating substance.
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.10 PERMIT FEES.
   Any applicable permit fees shall be as set forth in the adopted city's fee
schedule.
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.11 PERMIT REVOCATION AND ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   Revocations are subject to the severity of the offense alleged or
observed and investigated by the Police Department. The Chief of Police may
revoke an operator's permit at any time upon a finding that the holder thereof
has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or if there is evidence that
the permittee cannot safely operate the all-terrain or utility task vehicle on
city roadways.
   (B)   Operators/drivers are subject to administrative fines for any
violations listed elsewhere in city ordinances.
   (C)   The permit holder may appeal a permit revocation or administrative
fine to the City Council. The permit holder may request a hearing, in writing,
within ten business days of the permit revocation. The Council shall consider
the appeal at a regularly or specially scheduled Council meeting open to the
public. Failure to properly request a hearing within ten business days will
terminate the person's right to a hearing.
   (D)   Reinstatement of a permit requires a new permit registration to be
completed and submitted.
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.12 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Authorized city staff may operate city owned all-terrain and utility
task vehicles without obtaining a permit within the city, on city streets,
sidewalks, trails, rights-of-way, and public property when conducting official
city business.
   (B)   A special vehicle operator's permit is not required for individuals
driving an all-terrain vehicle, utility task vehicle, or golf cart on city
streets in a community parade or during other community events in which the
city has granted a special event permit.
   (C)   A special vehicle operator's permit is not required for individuals
driving an all-terrain or utility vehicle who are not residents of the city;
and the travel did not originate from within the city; and the vehicle is not
normally garaged or stored within city limits. This exemption does not exempt
the driver or operator from adhering to any/all other operating requirements
outlined within ordinance or state law.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provisions in this chapter, an all-terrain
vehicle or a utility task vehicle may be operated on a city road in an
emergency during the period of time and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by automobile impractical.
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.13 NO ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as an assumption of liability by
the city for injuries to persons or property which may result from the
operation of any all-terrain or utility task vehicle or golf cart by a permit
holder or the failure by the city to revoke a permit.
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the revocation of the permit and any administrative fines
imposed, any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 232, passed 10-4-2022)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Maximum weight limit on streets
SCHEDULE I. MAXIMUM WEIGHT LIMIT ON STREETS.
   (A)   All motor vehicles, tractor trailers, or any machine or instrument
that is driven, pulled, pushed, parked, or driven by a motor vehicle having
axle weights in excess of seven tons are prohibited on the public streets and
thoroughfares in the city, except those portions of Minnesota Highway Number
107 located within the city limits or unless upon receiving a special permit
authorized by the city as described below.
   (B)   The weight restrictions in division (A) above shall not apply to city
or emergency vehicles, delivery vehicles, public transportation vehicles, or to
vehicles utilized in the pick up and collection of solid wastes.
   (C)   Any police officer having probable cause to believe that the total
weight of a vehicle and load is unlawful is authorized to require the operator
of the vehicle to stop and submit the vehicle to a weighing at the nearest
available scale.
   (D)   The City Administrator, or designees, may, upon application, issue a
permit for use of the streets upon the condition that the applicant assumes all
responsibility for damage caused to the designated routes by the excess load,
and agrees to reimburse the city for all reasonable and necessary expenditures
to repair and replace the street to its former condition. A permit fee in an
amount as set by Council from time to time shall be charged per vehicle load,
or the other fee as set from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   Applications for permits shall be on forms which include:
      (1)   A confession of judgment subscribed to by the applicant which, in
effect, is a confession of judgment by the permittee with respects to all
damages caused to public thoroughfares resulting from hauling activities; and
      (2)   Permit applications shall also specifically designate the routes
which vehicles involved in the hauling activities may use.
(Ord. 192, passed 3-1-1999; Ord. 192, passed 8-3-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   ABANDONED, JUNKED, INOPERABLE VEHICLES
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
90.01   Park use, regulations
   
90.02   Tree diseases and shade tree pest control
   
90.03   Diseased shade trees; burning
   
90.04   Regulating use of tobacco, electronic delivery devices, cannabis and
cannabis-derived products in public places
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 PARK USE, REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to ensure the safety of people
using the city parks. City parks exist to provide green space, recreational,
social, and economic/commercial opportunities for people in the city area. This
section shall apply to all park and recreation areas controlled by the city.
   (B)   Park rules and regulations.
      (1)   Park hours: dawn until dusk.
      (2)   City parks are not supervised. Use equipment and structures at the
user’s own risk. The city is not responsible for accident or injury to persons
or property resulting from the use of city parks.
      (3)   Be aware, some parks contain features that may be above some user’s
abilities. Please use features within personal limits.
      (4)   The use of helmets, pads, and other protective equipment is
strongly encouraged in skate, mountain bike, and other parks with skills
features.
      (5)   It is expected that everyone who uses city parks will do so in a
way that the natural resources, structures, installed equipment, and people are
respected.
      (6)   To avoid damage to any trail, trail use is not allowed for 12 hours
following rain.
      (7)   Gazebos and shelters for groups larger than 50 need to be reserved
in advance. Special event permits are required for groups over 50.
      (8)   Activities for groups larger than 50 need to be cleared and
reserved in advance. Special event permits are required for groups over 50.
      (9)   Certificates of insurance must be provided if additional electrical
generation equipment, mechanical devices, or temporary electrical taps are to
be used.
      (10)   Use of provided electrical service may be subject to an additional
charge.
      (11)   No motorized vehicles will be permitted in the parks, with the
exception of maintenance vehicles, emergency vehicles, and other vehicles
authorized by permit only.
      (12)   No unauthorized modification of park structures and features.
      (13)   No littering.
      (14)   No profanity or disruptive behavior.
      (15)   Pets must be leashed.
      (16)   All pet owners are responsible for the proper disposal of pet
waste.
      (17)   Damaged or unsafe equipment should be reported to City Hall.
      (18)   In the event of an emergency, call 911.
      (19)   Other rules deemed necessary for individual parks will be posted
at the parks.
(Ord. 257, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 90.02 TREE DISEASES AND SHADE TREE PEST CONTROL.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. The health of the trees in the city is
threatened by shade tree pests, and the loss or ill health of trees growing
upon public and private property substantially depreciates the value of
property within the city and impairs the safety, good order, general welfare
and convenience of the public. In addition to and in accordance with M.S. §§
89.001, 89.01 and 89.51 through 89.64, as those sections may be amended from
time to time, the provisions of this section are adopted to attempt to control
and prevent the spread of these shade tree pests.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The city shall have control of all street trees, shrubs,
and other plantings now or hereafter in any street, park, public right-of-way
or easement, or other public place within the city limits, and shall have the
power to plant, care for, maintain, remove, and replace such trees, shrubs and
other plantings.
   (C)   Declaration of a shade tree pest. The Council may declare any
vertebrate or invertebrate animal, plant pathogen, or plant threatening to
cause significant damage to a shade tree or community forest as defined by M.S.
§ 89.001, as it may be amended from time to time, to be a shade tree pest and
prescribe control measures to effectively eradicate, control or manage the
shade tree pest including necessary timelines for action.
   (D)   Public nuisances declared. A shade tree pest declared by Council
occurring within a declared control zone is a public nuisance.
   (E)   Shade tree pest nuisances are unlawful. It is unlawful for any person
to permit any public nuisance as defined in this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The nuisance may be
abated as provided in this section.
   (F)   Definition of control areas. Upon declaring a shade tree pest, the
Council may define one or more locations within the geographic boundaries of
the city to be within a shade tree pest control area provided such locations
are characterized by biologic, composition, environmental and size factors
favorable to successful application of the control measures prescribed by
Council.
   (G)   Tree Inspector. The Council may appoint a Tree Inspector to coordinate
the activities of the city relating to the control and prevention of damage by
shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector will recommend to the Council the details
of any program for the declaration, control and prevention of shade tree pests.
The Tree Inspector is authorized to enforce or cause to be enforced the tasks
incident to such a program adopted by the Council. The term TREE INSPECTOR
includes any person designated by Council or the Tree Inspector to carry out
activities authorized in this section.
   (H)   Abatement of shade tree pest nuisances.
      (1)   In abating a nuisance declared by ordinance under divisions (B) and
(C), the organism, condition or plant and any tree, wood or material identified
as injurious to the health of shade trees shall be removed or effectively
treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the spread of the
shade tree pest. Such abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance
with the control measures and areas prescribed by ordinance according to
divisions (C), (K) and (O).
      (2)   In addition, should the appropriate abatement procedure be removal
and the tree(s) and/or hedge(s) be within the limits of a highway in a rural
area within the city's jurisdiction, M.S. § 160.22, as it may be amended from
time to time, shall be complied with as necessary.
   (I)   Reporting discovery of shade tree pest. Any owner or occupier of land
or any person engaged in tree trimming or removal who becomes aware of the
existence of public nuisance caused by a shade tree pest as defined under
division (C) shall report the same to the city.
   (J)   Registration of tree care firms. Any person, firm or corporation that
provides tree care, tree trimming or removal of trees, limbs, branches, brush,
or shrubs for hire must be registered with the Minnesota Commissioner of
Agriculture under M.S. § 18G.07, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (K)   Inspection and application of control measures.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector is authorized to inspect premises and places
within the city to determine whether shade tree pests exist thereon and to
investigate all reported incidents of shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector is
authorized to take all reasonable measures to prevent the maintenance of public
nuisances and may enforce the provisions relating to abatement in this section.
Diagnosis of shade tree pests may be by the presence of commonly recognized
symptoms or by tests as may be recommended by the Commissioner of the Minnesota
Department of Agriculture or the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources or other reliable means.
      (2)   Except in situations of imminent danger to human life and safety,
the Tree Inspector shall not enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing maintenance of public nuisances without the permission
of the owner, resident or other person in control of the property, unless the
Tree Inspector has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry.
      (3)   No person, firm, or corporation shall interfere with the Tree
Inspector acting under his authority while engaged in activities authorized by
this section.
   (L)   Standard abatement procedure. Except as provided in divisions (M) and
(O), whenever a Tree Inspector determines with reasonable certainty that a
public nuisance as described by this section is being maintained or exists on
premises in the city, the Tree Inspector is authorized to abate a public
nuisance according to the following procedure.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector will notify in writing the owner of record or
occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be terminated
or abated. The notice may be given in person or by mail. Failure of any party
to receive the mail does not invalidate the service of the notice. A copy of
the notice shall be filed with the City Administrator.
      (2)   The notice of abatement shall state that unless the public nuisance
is abated by the owner or occupant, it will be abated by the city at the
expense of the owner or occupant. The notice shall specify the control measures
to be taken to abate the nuisance, and provide a reasonable amount of time to
abate the nuisance. The notice will also state that the owner or occupant has
the right to appeal the determination that a public nuisance exists by
submitting a request in writing to the City Administrator within seven days
after service of the notice, or before the date by which abatement must be
completed, whichever comes first.
      (3)   If no timely appeal is submitted, and the notice of abatement and
its prescribed control measures are not complied with within the time provided
by the notice or any additional time granted, the Tree Inspector or designated
person shall have the authority to obtain permission or an administrative
search warrant, enter the property and carry out abatement in accordance with
the notice of abatement.
   (M)   High cost abatement. If the Tree Inspector determines that the cost of
abating a nuisance will exceed $5,000 based on a reasonable, good faith
estimate, the written notice referred to in division (L) must provide that if
the nuisance is not abated within the reasonable amount of time provided, the
matter will be referred to the City Council for a hearing. The date, time, and
location of the hearing must be provided in the notice.
   (N)   Appeal procedure. If the City Administrator receives a written request
for a hearing on the question of whether a public nuisance in fact exists, the
City Council shall hold a hearing within seven calendar days following receipt
by the Administrator of the written request. At least three days notice shall
be given to the individual who made the written request for the hearing. The
Council may modify the abatement notice or extend the time by which abatement
must be completed. Each owner, agent of the owner, occupant and lienholder of
the subject property or properties in attendance, if any, shall be given the
opportunity to present evidence at the hearing. After holding the hearing, the
City Council may issue an order requiring abatement of the nuisance.
   (O)   Abatement procedure in event of imminent danger.
      (1) If the Tree Inspector determines that the danger of infestation to
other shade trees is imminent and delay in control measures may put public
health, safety or welfare in immediate danger, the Tree Inspector may provide
for abatement without following (L) or (M). The Tree Inspector must reasonably
attempt to notify the owner or occupant of the affected property of the
intended action and the right to appeal the abatement and any cost recovery at
the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the city, without notice or
other process, from immediately abating any condition which poses an imminent
and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (P)   Recovery of cost of abatement; liability and assessment.
      (1)   The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been abated by the
city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the abatement,
including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been completed and the
cost determined, the City Administrator or other official shall prepare a bill
for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount shall be
immediately due and payable at the office of the City Administrator.
      (2)   After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as it may
be amended from time to time, the City Administrator may list the total unpaid
charges along with all other charges as well as other charges for current
services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate lot or
parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then certify
the charges against the property under that statute and other pertinent
statutes to the County Auditor for collection along with current taxes the
following year or in annual installments as the City Council may determine in
each case.
   (Q)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which
may be imposed for any crime which is a misdemeanor under this section,
including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, shall be a
sentence of not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than an amount as set
by Council from time to time, or both.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a misdemeanor, the costs of prosecution may be
added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this section shall not subject the officer or employee
to the penalty imposed for a violation.
      (4)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this section,
the City Council or any official designated by it, may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   (R)   Declared shade tree pests, control measures and control areas.
      (1)   Oak Wilt. Oak Wilt is declared a shade tree pest and is defined as
any living or dead tree, log, firewood, limb, branch, stump or other portion of
a tree from any species of the genus Quercus existing within the control area
defined that has bark attached and that exceeds three inches in diameter or ten
inches in circumference and contains to any degree any spore or reproductive
structures of the fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum. Control measures prescribed
for abating Oak Wilt Disease are:
         (a)   Installation of a root graft barrier. A root graft barrier can
be ordered installed to prevent the underground spread of Oak Wilt Disease. The
city will mark the location of the root graft
barrier. The barrier disrupts transmission of the fungus within the shared
vascular systems of root grafted trees. The barrier is created by excavating or
vibratory plowing a line at least 42 inches deep between any oak tree infected
with Oak Wilt Disease and each nearby and apparently healthy oak tree within 50
feet of the infected tree.
         (b)   Removal and disposal of trees on property zoned for residential
and commercial use. On property that is zoned residential and commercial the
city may mark for removal trees that have the potential to produce spores of
the fungus Ceratocvstis fagacearum. After, and in no case before the
installation of the root graft barrier and no later than May 1 of the year
following infection all marked trees must be felled. The stump from such felled
trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if taller,
must be completely debarked. If, however, after the city prescribes the
location for a root graft barrier, the city determines that installation of the
barrier is impossible because of the presence of pavement or obstructions such
as a septic system or utility line, the city may mark for removal all oak trees
whether living or dead, infected or not and located between an infected tree
and the marked barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and disposed
of no later than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from such
felled trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if
taller, must be completely debarked.
         (c)   Removal and disposal of trees on all other property. On all
other property the city may mark for removal all oak trees whether living or
dead, infected or not and located between an infected tree and the marked
barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and disposed of no later
than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from such felled trees
must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if taller, must be
completely debarked.
         (d)   Wood disposal. All wood more than three inches in diameter or
ten inches in circumference from such felled trees must be disposed of by
burying or debarking or chipping or sawing into wane-free lumber or by
splitting into firewood, stacking the firewood and immediately covering the
woodpile with unbroken 4-mil or thicker plastic sheeting that is sealed into
the ground until October 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in
which the tree was felled or by burning before May 1 of the year following
infection. Wood chips from infected trees may be stockpiled or immediately used
in the landscape.
         (e)   Control area. The CONTROL AREA for Oak Wilt Disease is defined
as all lands within the boundaries of the city.
      (2)   Emerald Ash Borer. Emerald Ash Borer is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as an insect that attacks and kills ash trees. The adults are
small, iridescent green beetles that live outside of trees during the summer
months. The larvae are grub or worm-like and live underneath the bark of ash
trees.
         (a)   Control measures prescribed for abating Emerald Ash Borer are
those provided in the document, Guidelines to Slow the Growth and Spread of
Emerald Ash Borer from the Minnesota Department of Agriculture.
         (b)   Definition of control areas. The CONTROL AREA for Emerald Ash
Borer is defined as all lands within the boundaries of the city.
      (3)   Dutch Elm Disease. Dutch Elm Disease is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as a disease of elm trees caused by the fungus Ophiostoma ulmi
or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi, and includes any living or dead tree, log, firewood,
limb, branch, stump or other portion of a tree from any species of the genus
Ulmus existing within the control area defined that has bark attached and that
exceeds three inches in diameter or ten inches in circumference and could
contain bark beetles or any spore or reproductive structures of the fungus
Ophiostoma ulmi or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi.
         (a)   Control measures prescribed for abating Dutch Elm Disease are:
            1.   Use of fungicide. Fungicides may be effective in preventing
Dutch elm disease when injected into living trees that do not already show
symptoms of Dutch elm disease. Fungicide injections on private lands are
optional and, if performed, are at the landowner's expense.
            2.   Removal and disposal of trees. Prompt removal of diseased
trees or branches reduces breeding sites for elm bark beetles and eliminates
the source of Dutch elm disease fungus. Trees that wilt before July 15 must be
removed within 20 days of detection [alternative: 30 days]. Trees that wilt
after July 15 must be removed by April 1 of the following year. Diseased trees
not promptly removed will be removed by the city at the landowner’s expense.
Wood may be retained for use as firewood or sawlogs if it is de-barked or
covered from April 15 to October 15 with 4 mil plastic. The edges of the cover
must be buried or sealed to the ground.
         (b)   Definition of control areas. The CONTROL AREA for Dutch Elm
Disease is defined as all lands within the boundaries of the city.
§ 90.03 DISEASED SHADE TREES; BURNING.
   (A)   General. Open burning of diseased shade trees shall be permitted,
provided no reasonable alternate method of disposal exists, as determined by
the State Pollution Control Agency, a permit is obtained pursuant to this
subchapter, and the open burning is conducted in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter and the conditions of the permit.
   (B)   Site location. The sites shall be located in accordance with the
following conditions, or as approved by the Director of Air Quality:
      (1)   Not less than 1,000 feet from an occupied building;
      (2)   Not less than 1,000 feet from a public roadway;
      (3)   Not less than one mile from an airport or landing strip;
      (4)   Not less than 300 feet from a stream; and
      (5)   Not within a wetland.
   (C)   Site preparation. The site shall be prepared in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   Access to the site shall be controlled by a gate, which shall be
locked when an attendant is not on duty.
      (2)   Approach roads to the disposal site, and access roads on the site,
shall be maintained so that they shall be passable at all specified times.
      (3)   A permanent sign identifying the operation, indicating the hours
and days the site is open for use, rates, the penalty for non-conforming
dumping, and other pertinent information shall be posted at the site entrance.
      (4)   Surface water drainage shall be diverted around and away from the
operating area and ash storage areas.
   (D)   Site operation. The site shall be operated in accordance with the
following conditions.
      (1)   Only diseased shade trees and/or tree trimmings shall be disposed
of on the site.
      (2)   Qualified personnel for general direction and operation of the site
shall be on duty at all times while the site is open for use and for the
duration of any fire on the site.
      (3)   Burning shall be conducted only when weather conditions are such
that a nuisance, health, or safety hazard will not be created.
      (4)   Prior notice shall be given to the local fire authority of the time
and duration of each fire.
      (5)   Adequate dust control shall be provided on the site and on the
roads leading to the site.
      (6)   Ash residue shall be collected on a periodic basis and disposed of
in an agency-permitted sanitary landfill.
   (E)   Site termination. The site shall be terminated in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   All materials extraneous to the site shall be removed and disposed
of in an appropriate manner.
      (2)   The site shall be returned to a state equal to its surroundings.
(Ord. 107, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 90.04 REGULATING USE OF TOBACCO, ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES, CANNABIS AND
CANNABIS DERIVED PRODUCTS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   The City Council finds the following facts to exist:
         (a)   Tobacco smoke is a contributor to outdoor air pollution, and
breathing secondhand smoke is a cause of disease, including lung cancer, in
nonsmokers. At special risk are children, elderly people, individuals with
cardiovascular disease and individuals with impaired respiratory function,
including asthmatics and those with obstructive airway disease;
         (b)   Health hazards induced by breathing second hand smoke include,
but are not limited to, lung cancer, heart disease, respiratory infection and
decreased respiratory function; and
         (c)   The simple separation of smokers and nonsmokers within the same
air space may reduce, but does not eliminate, the exposure of nonsmokers to
environmental tobacco smoke for which there is no known safe level of exposure.
      (2)   This section is adopted by the City Council for the purpose of
protecting public health and safety by regulating/prohibiting the use of
tobacco, electronic delivery devices, cannabis, and cannabis-derived products
in public places and places of public accommodation within the city. The city
wishes to be proactive in protecting public health and safety by enacting
regulations that will mitigate threats presented to the public by the public
use of tobacco, electronic delivery devises, and cannabis. The city recognizes
the risks that unintended access and use of cannabis products present to the
health, welfare, and safety of youth in the city.
      (3)   The Minnesota Clean Indoor Air Act authorizes local units of
government to enact and enforce more stringent measures to protect individuals
from secondhand smoke or involuntary exposure to aerosol or vapor from
electronic delivery devices.
      (4)   By enacting 2023 Session Law, Chapter 63, H. F. No. 100 (“State
Legislation”), the Minnesota Legislature passed the adult-use cannabis bill.
Under that bill, the adult use, possession, and personal growing of cannabis
will become legal August 1, 2023. State legislation authorizes adoption of a
local ordinance establishing a petty misdemeanor offense for public use of
cannabis. See State Legislation Sec. 19, M.S. § 152.0263, subd. 5, or successor
statute.
   (B)   Definitions. Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by
context, all terms shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The
following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER. Cannabis flower that is approved for sale by
the Office of Cannabis Management or is substantially similar to a product
approved by that office. ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER does not include medical
cannabis flower, hemp plant parts, or hemp-derived consumer products.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCTS. A cannabis product that is approved for sale
by the Office of Cannabis Management or is substantially similar to a product
approved by that office. ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCT includes edible cannabis
products but does not include medical cannabinoid products or lower-potency
hemp edibles.
      CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a
cannabis plant. CANNABIS FLOWER includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical
cannabis flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant
parts, or hemp-derived consumer products.
      CANNABIS PRODUCT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Cannabis concentrate;
         (b)   A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited
to tetrahydrocannabinol,
extracted, or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis flower; or
         (c)   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
      ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. The meaning of ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE
shall follow M.S. § 609.685, subd. c, which states: any product containing or
delivering nicotine, lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or
synthetic, intended for human consumption through inhalation of aerosol or
vapor from the product.
      HEMP DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS.
         (a)   A product intended for human or animal consumption, does not
contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and:
            1.   Contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
            2.   Contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids
in combination with other ingredients.
         (b)   HEMP DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS do not include artificially
derived cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical
products, hemp fiber products, or hemp grain.
      LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. Means any product that:
         (a)   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
         (b)   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived
cannabinoid, in combination with food ingredients;
         (c)   Is not a drug;
         (d)   Consists of servings that contain no more than five milligrams
of delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabidiol, 25 milligrams of
cannabigerol, or any combination of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the
identified amounts;
         (e)   Does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of
all other cannabinoids per serving;
         (f)   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
         (g)   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or
cannabis flower; and
         (h)   Is a type of product approved for sale by the office or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the Office of Cannabis
Management, including but not limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic
beverages, candy, and baked goods.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk, any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, theaters, restaurants, bars, food establishments, places licensed to sell
intoxicating liquor, wine, or malt beverages, retail businesses, gyms, common
areas in buildings, public shopping areas, auditoriums, arenas, or other places
of public accommodation.
      PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, refreshment, entertainment,
recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whose goods, services,
facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations are extended, offered,
sold, or otherwise made available to the public.
      PUBLIC PLACE OR PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION, EXCEPTION TO. “A public
place” or “a place of public accommodation” does not include the following:
         (a)   A private residence, including the individual's curtilage or
yard.
         (b)   A private property, not generally accessible by the public,
unless the individual is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products on the property by the owner of the property; or
         (c)   On the premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit
on-site consumption.
      SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing
tobacco, cannabis flower, cannabis products, artificially derived cannabinoids,
or hemp-derived consumer products. SMOKING includes carrying or using an
activated electronic delivery device for human consumption through inhalation
of aerosol or vapor from the product.
   (C)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   No person shall use tobacco, electronic delivery devices, cannabis
flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products in a public place or a place of public accommodation unless the
premises is an establishment or an event licensed to permit on-site consumption
of adult-use cannabis flower and adult use cannabis products. See State
Legislation Sec. 9, M.S. § 342.09, subd. 1(2) or successor statute. See also
State Legislation Sec. 19, M.S. § 342.09, subd. 1(7)(iii) or successor statute,
and M.S. § 152.0263, subd. 5, or successor statute.
      (2)   No person shall vaporize or smoke cannabis flower, cannabis
products, artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-derived consumer products
in any location where the smoke, aerosol, or vapor would be inhaled by a minor.
See State Legislation Sec. 9, M.S. § 342.09, subd. 1(7)(b)(9) or successor
statute.
   (D)   Penalty. Criminal penalty. A violation of this section shall be a
petty misdemeanor having a fine payable up to $200. Nothing in this section
prohibits the city from seeking prosecution for an alleged violation.
   (E)   Severability. If any division or provision of this section is held
invalid, such invalidity will not affect other sections or provisions that can
be given force and effect without the invalidated section or provision.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage and publication.
(Ord. 309, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
90.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 107, passed 5-2-1983; Ord. 128, passed 4-3-1989; Ord. 257, passed 11-10-
2008; Ord. 302, passed 11-1-2022)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Assessable current services
   
91.02   Tree diseases
   
91.03   Clandestine drug lab sites and chemical dump sites
Nuisances
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Nuisances affecting health, safety, comfort or repose
   
91.17   Nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
91.18   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
91.19   Public nuisance unlawful
   
91.20   Enforcement
   
91.21   Administrative offenses
   
91.22   Notice of violation and administrative citation procedure
   
91.23   Administrative hearing
   
91.24   Penalties and civil recovery
   
91.25   City abatement of public nuisances
   
91.26   Recovery of cost
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. Shall mean one or more of the following: snow, ice, or
rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots
adjacent to sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of
public health or safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous
building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26 as they may be amended from
time to time; installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling,
street flushing, light street oiling, or other dust treatment of streets;
repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of
unsound and insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property;
and the operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Clerk-Administrator or other person
designated by the City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks of
snow, ice, dirt and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any
matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The
City Clerk-Administrator or other designated person shall keep a record showing
the cost of removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Clerk-Administrator.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under
Chapter 51 of this code, the City Administrator shall keep a record of the
total cost of the installation or repair against the property.
   (E)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the Office of the
City Clerk-Administrator.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee shall make
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If it
is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the City Council shall cause a notice to be served, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of
the property, ordering the owner to have the sidewalk or alley repaired and
made safe within 30 days and stating that if the owner fails to do so, the city
will do so and that expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and if unpaid it
will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 30
days after receipt of the notice, the City Clerk-Administrator shall report the
facts to the City Council and the City Council shall by resolution order the
work done by contract in accordance with law. The City Clerk-Administrator
shall keep a record of the total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or
parcel of property.
   (F)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Clerk-Administrator, or other designated official, shall
prepare a bill and mail it to the owner and thereupon the amount shall be
immediately due and payable at the Office of the City Clerk-Administrator.
   (G)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or
moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner
and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any such damage. Any
person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages
any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall
be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (H)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk-
Administrator shall list the total unpaid charges for each type of current
service and charges under this section against each separate lot or parcel to
which they are attributable under this section. The City Council may then
spread the charges against property benefited as a special assessment under the
authority of M.S. § 429.101 as it may be amended from time to time and other
pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collected along
with current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding
ten, as the City Council may determine in each case.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 91.02 TREE DISEASES.
   (A)   Trees constituting nuisance declared. The following are public
nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide; and
      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance as defined in division (A) of this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The City Council may by
resolution order the nuisance abated. Before action is taken on that
resolution, the City Council shall publish notice of its intention to meet to
consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to
the affected property owner and published once no less than one week prior to
the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting, the
street affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the abatement, and the
proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At such hearing or adjournment
thereof, the City Council shall hear any property owner with reference to the
scope and desirability of the proposed modifications as it considers desirable
and provide for the doing of the work by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   Record of costs. The City Clerk-Administrator shall keep a record of
the costs of abatement done under this section for all work done for which
assessments are to be made, stating and certifying the description of the land,
lots, parcels involved, and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   Unpaid charges. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk-
Administrator shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against
each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this section.
The City Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof against the
property involved as a special assessment as authorized by M.S. § 429.101 as it
may be amended from time to time and other pertinent statutes for certification
to the County Auditor and collected the following year along with the current
taxes.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 91.03 CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITES AND CHEMICAL DUMP SITES.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to reduce public
exposure to health risks where law enforcement officers have determined that
hazardous chemicals from a suspected clandestine drug lab site or associated
dumpsite may exist. The City Council finds that such sites may contain
suspected chemicals and residues that place people, particularly children or
adults of child bearing age, at risk when exposed through inhabiting or
visiting the site, now and in the future.
      (2)   Interpretation and application.
         (a)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
section shall be construed to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
         (b)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this section
are either more or less restrictive than comparable provisions imposed by any
other law, ordinance, statute, or regulation of any kind, the regulations which
are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall
prevail.
         (c)   Should any court of competent jurisdiction declare any section
or division of this section to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the section as a whole or any part thereof, other than the
provision declared invalid.
      (3)   Fees. Fees for the administration of this section may be
established and amended periodically by resolution or ordinance of the City
Council.
      (4)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms
or words shall be interpreted as follows:
         CHEMICAL DUMPSITE. Any place or area where chemicals or other waste
materials used in a clandestine drug lab has been located.
         CHILD. Any person less than 18 years of age.
         CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB. The unlawful manufacture or attempt to
manufacture controlled substances.
         CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE. Any place or area where law enforcement has
determined that conditions associated with the operation of an unlawful
clandestine drug lab exist. A clandestine drug lab site may include dwellings,
accessory buildings, accessory structures, a chemical dumpsite or any land.
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A drug, substance or immediate precursor in M.S.
§ 152.02 schedules I through V as it may be amended from time to time. The term
shall not include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages, intoxicating liquors
or tobacco.
         HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTES. Waste generated from a clandestine drug
lab. Such wastes shall be treated, stored, transported or disposed of in a
manner consistent with the Minnesota Department of Health, Minnesota Pollution
Control, and Isanti County Health Department rules and regulations.
         MANUFACTURE. In places other than a pharmacy, shall mean and include
the production, cultivation, quality control, and standardization, by
mechanical, physical, chemical or pharmaceutical means, packing, repacking,
tableting, encapsulating, labeling, relabeling, filling, or by other process,
of drugs.
         OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation who owns, in whole or in part,
the land, buildings or structures associated with a clandestine drug lab site
or chemical dumpsite.
         PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE. All dwellings, accessory structures and
buildings or adjacent property associated with a clandestine drug lab site are
potentially unsafe due to health hazards and are considered a public health
nuisance.
   (B)   Administration.
      (1)   Law enforcement notice to other authorities. Law enforcement
authorities that identify conditions associated with a clandestine drug lab
site or chemical dump site that places neighbors, visiting public, or present
and future occupants of the dwelling at risk for exposure to harmful
contaminants and other associated conditions must promptly notify the
appropriate municipal, child protection, and public health authorities of the
property location, property owner if known, and conditions found.
      (2)   Declaration of property as a public health nuisance. If law
enforcement determines the existence of a clandestine drug lab site or chemical
dumpsite, the property shall be declared a public health nuisance.
      (3)   Notice of public health nuisance to concerned parties. Upon
notification by law enforcement authorities, the City Administrator, or his/her
designee, shall promptly issue a declaration of public health notice for the
affected property and post a copy of the declaration at the probable entrance
to the dwelling or property. The Administrator shall also notify the owner of
the property by mail and notify the following parties:
         (a)   Occupants of the property;
         (b)   Neighbors at probable risk;
         (c)   The City of Braham Police Department; and
         (d)   Other state and local authorities, such as MPCA and MDH, that
are known to have public and environmental protection responsibilities that are
applicable to the situation.
      (4)   Property owner's responsibility to act. The City Administrator, or
his/her designee, shall also issue an order to abate the public health
nuisance, including the following:
         (a)   Immediately vacate those portions of the property, including
building or structure interiors that may place the occupants or visitors at
risk;
         (b)   Promptly contract with appropriate environmental testing and
cleaning firms to conduct an on-site assessment, complete clean-up and
remediation testing and follow-up testing, and determine that the property
risks are sufficiently reduced to allow safe human occupancy of the dwelling.
The property owner shall notify the city of actions taken and reach an
agreement with the city on the clean-up schedule. The city shall consider
practical limitations and the availability of contractors in approving the
schedule for cleanup; and
         (c)   Provide written documentation of the clean-up process, including
a signed, written statement that the property is safe for human occupancy and
that the cleanup was conducted in accordance with the Minnesota Department of
Health guidelines.
      (5)   Property owner's responsibility for costs. The property owner shall
be responsible for all costs of vacation or cleanup of the site, including
contractor's fees and public costs for services that were performed in
association with a clandestine drug lab site or chemical dumpsite cleanup.
Public costs may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Posting of the site;
         (b)   Notification of the affected parties;
         (c)   Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the
assessment process;
         (d)   Laboratory fees;
         (e)   Clean-up services;
         (f)   Administrative fees; and
         (g)   Other associated costs.
      (6)   Recovery of public costs.
         (a)   If, after service of notice of the declaration of public health
nuisance, the property owner fails to arrange appropriate assessment and clean-
up, the City Administrator, or his/her designee, is authorized to proceed in a
prompt manner to initiate the on-site assessment and clean-up.
         (b)    If the city is unable to locate the property owner within ten
days of the declaration of public health nuisance, the city is authorized to
proceed in a prompt manner to initiate the on-site assessment and clean-up.
         (c)    The city may abate the nuisance by removing the hazardous
structure or building, or otherwise, according to M.S. Chapter 463, as it may
be amended from time to time.
         (d)   If the city abates the public health nuisance, in addition to
any other legal remedy, the city shall be entitled to recover all costs plus an
additional 25% of the costs for administration. The city may recover costs by
civil action against the person or persons who own the property or by assessing
such costs as a special assessment against the property in the manner as taxes
and special assessments are certified and collected pursuant to M.S. § 429.101,
as it may be amended from time to time.
      (7)   Authority to modify or remove declaration of public health
nuisance.
         (a)   The City Administrator, or his/her designee, is authorized to
modify the declaration conditions or remove the declaration of public health
nuisance.
         (b)   Such modifications or removal of the declaration shall only
occur after documentation from a qualified environmental or cleaning firm
stating that the health and safety risks, including those to neighbors and
potential dwelling occupants, are sufficiently abated or corrected to allow
safe occupancy of the dwelling.
   (C)   Violations and penalties. Any person violating any provisions of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in M.S. § 609.02, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022)
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that:
      (1)   Has been illegally parked on public property for a period of more
than 48 hours;
      (2)   Has been parked on private property without the consent of the
person in control of the property for a period of more than 48 hours; and
      (3)   Has been voluntarily surrendered by its owner to the city or to a
moving contractor hired by the city for its removal.
   FRONT YARD AREA. All that area between the front property line and a line
drawn along the front face or faces of the principal structure on the property
extended to the side property lines.
   INOPERABLE CONDITION. The vehicle has no substantial potential use
consistent with its usual function and shall include a vehicle that:
      (1)   Has a missing or defective part that is necessary for the normal
operation of the vehicle; or
      (2)   Is stored on blocks or jacks or other supports.
   JUNK VEHICLE. An inoperable motor vehicle which is partially dismantled,
which is used for sale of parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts
for other vehicles, or which is kept for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of
any kind unless such vehicle is kept in an enclosed garage. An abandoned
vehicle shall also be considered a JUNK VEHICLE for the purpose of this
chapter.
   NUISANCE. Any act, substance, matter emission or thing which creates a
dangerous or unhealthy condition or which threatens the public peace, health,
safety or sanitary condition of the city or which is offensive or has a
blighting influence on the community and which is found upon, in, being
discharged or flowing from any street, alley, highway, railroad right-of-way,
vehicle, railroad car, water, excavation, building, erection, lot, grounds, or
other property located within the city of Braham. NUISANCES shall include, but
not be limited to, those enumerated below:
      (1)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures
or endangers the safety, health, comfort, or repose of members of the public;
      (2)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any
public road, right-of-way, street, alley, or highway, or waters used by the
public;
      (3)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law to be a
public nuisance specifically provided;
      (4)   Anything left or displayed for sale on public or private property
without written permission by the owner or person in control of the property
may be tagged and/or towed at the owner's expense; or
      (5)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in use of
property.
   OCCUPANT. Includes any person living in or in control of any dwelling unit
upon property wherein a motor vehicle is parked.
   VEHICLE or VEHICLES. Any "motor vehicle" as defined in Minnesota Statutes.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of the motor vehicle that are essential
to the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including, but not limited to,
the motor, drive train, and wheels.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 91.16 NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH, SAFETY, COMFORT OR REPOSE.
   The following are hereby declared to be public nuisances affecting health,
safety, comfort or repose:
   (A)   Diseased animals. All diseased animals running at large.
   (B)   Carcasses. Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24
hours after death.
   (C)   Weeds. All noxious weeds are prohibited. Tall grasses, nuisance weeds
and rank vegetative growth shall be maintained at a height of 12 inches or
less.
      (1)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be limited
to: alum (allium), buckthorn, bur cucumber, Canada thistle, corncockle,
cressleaf groundsel, curly dock, dodder, field bindweed, french weed, hairy
whitetop, hedge bindweed, hoary cress, horsenettle, johnson grass, leafy
spurge, mile-a-minute weed, musk thistle, oxeye daisy, perennial sow thistle,
poison hemlock, purple loosestrife, quack grass, Russian knapweed, Russian
thistle, serrated tussock, shatter cane, sorghum, wild carrot, wild garlic,
wild mustard, wild onion, and wild parsnip;
      (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
      (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
      (4)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches.
      (5)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of
annuals and perennial plants.
      (6)   The term "weeds" does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
      (7)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which
have been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (D)   Debris. An accumulation of tin cans, bottles, trash, uprooted tree
stumps, logs, limbs, brush, and other cut vegetative debris, or other debris of
any nature or description and the throwing, dumping, or depositing of any dead
animals, manure, garbage, waste, decaying matter, ground, sand, stones, ashes,
rubbish, tin cans or other material of any kind on private property.
   (E)   Smoke and fumes. Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders
in unreasonable quantities.
   (F)   Backyard composting. All composting consisting of yard waste and/or
kitchen waste which have been left unattended and which cause offensive odors,
attract rodents and/or pests or are unsightly, or do not meet the requirements
of this code.
   (G)   Keeping of farm animals. The keeping of cows, horses, sheep, goats, or
any four-legged animal commonly known as farm animals, or as defined in Chapter
95.
   (H)   Service stations. Operation of a business involving the sale of motor
fuel and/or the repair of motor vehicles in the following manner.
      (1)   The use of service station premises for the sale, or for display in
aid of sale, of any motor vehicle.
      (2)   The use of service station premises for storage of damaged or
abandoned motor vehicles for more than seven days without a directive of the
Chief of Police.
      (3)   The storing of or the allowing of accumulation of any of the
following items on service station premises in view of adjacent land:
         (a)   Used oil cans;
         (b)   Discarded auto parts;
         (c)   Discarded tires; or
         (d)   Any other items of similar debris.
   (I)   Building maintenance and appearance. Buildings, fences, and other
structures which have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition
and appearance detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be
public nuisances because they:
      (1)   Are unsightly;
      (2)   Decrease adjoining landowners and occupants' enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (3)   Adversely affect property values and neighborhood pattern.
   (J)   Standards. Any building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   All wires which are strung less than 15 feet above the surface of
any public street or alley.
      (2)   All exterior doors, windows, and shutters shall be hung properly
and have an operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (3)   All cornices, moldings, lintels, bay or dormer windows and similar
projections shall be kept in good repair and free from cracks and defects which
make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (4)   Roof surfaces shall be tight and have no defects which admit water.
All roof drainage systems shall be secured and hung properly.
      (5)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents and other similar projections shall
be structurally sound and in good repair. Such projections shall be secured
properly where applicable to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (6)   All foundations shall be structurally sound and in good repair.
   (K)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking, storage, or installation
on residentially-zoned property of vehicles, signs, materials, supplies or
equipment not customarily used for residential purposes in violation of the
requirements set forth below is declared to be a public nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (4)   Decreases adjoining landowners and occupants' enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (5)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (L)   Unlawful parking and storage:
      (1)   No person may place, store, or allow the placement or storage of
ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses, or other similar nonpermanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front-yard area
of residentially zoned property. Exception: trailer style ice houses (ice
castle or similar) can be parked and stored in the front yard area if stored on
an improved surface as defined in this code.
      (2)   No person may place, store, or allow the placement or storage of
pipe, lumber, steel, machinery, or similar materials including all materials
used in connection with a business, outside on residentially zoned property.
      (3)   No person shall cause, undertake, permit, or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles in residentially zoned property unless it
complies with the following requirements.
         (a)   Vehicles which are parked or stored outside shall be on an
improved surface as defined in this code.
         (b)   All vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who is a legal resident of that
property.
      (4)   No person owning, driving, or in charge of any commercial vehicle
exceeding 12,000 GVW may cause or permit that vehicle to be parked on a public
street at any time in a residential zone.
      (5)   No truck or commercial vehicle weighing more than 9,000 pounds
licensed weight shall be parked on a public street at any time in a residential
zone.
   (M)   Exceptions. The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Any motor truck, pickup truck, or similar vehicle being used by a
public utility, moving company, or similar company, which is actually being
used to service a residence not belonging to or occupied by the operator of the
vehicle.
      (2)   Any vehicle which is actually making a pickup or delivery at the
location where it is parked. Parking for any period of time beyond the period
of time reasonably necessary to make such a pickup or delivery shall be
unlawful.
   (N)   Vehicles constituting a public nuisance.
      (1)   Abandoned and junk vehicles create hazard. Abandoned and junk
vehicles are declared to be a public nuisance creating hazard to the health and
safety of the public because they invite plundering, create fire hazards,
attract vermin, and present physical dangers to the safety and well-being of
children and other citizens. The accumulation and outside storage of such
vehicles is in the nature of rubbish, litter and unsightly debris and is a
blight on the landscape and a detriment to the environment. It shall be
unlawful for a person to pile, store or keep wrecked, junked, or abandoned
motor vehicles on private or public property.
      (2)   Vehicles impeding traffic flow. Any vehicle, whether occupied or
not that is found stopped, standing, or parked in violation of any ordinance or
state statute; or that is reported stolen; or that is found impeding
firefighting, snow removal or plowing or the orderly flow of traffic is
declared to be a public nuisance.
      (3)   Vehicles impeding road and utility repair. Any vehicle which is
impeding public road or utility repair, construction, or maintenance activities
after reasonable notice of the improper activities has been given to the
vehicle owner or user at least 12 hours in advance, is declared to be a public
nuisance.
      (4)   Vehicles without license plates. Except where expressly permitted
by state law, any vehicle shall be deemed to be junked or abandoned if said
vehicle does not have attached thereto a valid and current license plate issued
by the proper state agency.
   (O)   Abatement of vehicles.
      (1)   Impounding. Any police officer or other duly authorized person may
order any vehicle constituting a public nuisance to be immediately removed and/
or impounded. The impounded vehicle shall be surrendered to the duly identified
owner by the towing contractor only upon payment of the required impound,
towing and storage fees.
      (2)   Sale. Notice and sale of any vehicle impounded under this chapter
shall be conducted in accordance with M.S. Chapter 168B governing the sale of
abandoned motor vehicles.    
   (P)   Graffiti. Graffiti shall mean any writing, printing, marks, signs,
symbols, figures, designs, inscriptions, or other drawings which are scratched,
scrawled, painted, drawn, or otherwise placed on any exterior surface of a
building, wall, fence, sidewalk, curb, dumpsters, or other permanent structures
on public or private property, and which has the effect of defacing the
property.
   (Q)   Any condition inside a dwelling that may pose a threat to the health,
safety, and general welfare of the community, including garbage, filth, feces,
mold accumulations, and the like.
   (R)   Un-secured dwellings. A dwelling that is not secured including open
doors, windows, and garage doors.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. 300, passed 8-3-2022)
§ 91.17 NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall.
   (B)   Low wires and limbs. All wires and limbs of trees which are so close
to the surface of the sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to
pedestrians or vehicles.
   (C)   Dangerous buildings. All buildings, walls and other structures which
have been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise to an extent exceeding half their
original value or which are so situated as to endanger the safety of the
public.
   (D)   Explosives. All explosives, inflammable liquids and other dangerous
substances or materials stored or accumulated in any manner or in any amount
other than that provided by law.
   (E)   Noises. All unnecessary noises and annoying vibrations. The using or
operation or permitting the using or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or other device for
producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly audible manner so
as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person nearby. Operation of
any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a
manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line of the structure or
building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50 feet if the source is
located outside a structure or building shall be prima facie evidence of
violation of this section.
   (F)   Radio aerials. Radio aerials strung or erected in any manner except
that provided by law.
   (G)   Storage of wood. The storage of any wood or wood product used or
intended to be used as firewood on residential properties within the city
unless wood piles are erected, located and maintained in accordance with this
code.
   (H)   Junk. The outside piling, storing or keeping of old machinery,
furniture, household furnishings or appliances or component parts thereof,
rusting metal inoperable/unusable equipment, or other debris visible on private
or public property.
   (I)   Obstruction of streets. Any use of property abutting on a public
street or sidewalk or any use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large
crowds of people to gather obstructing traffic and the free use of public
streets or sidewalks.
   (J)   Dangers attractive to children. All dangerous, unguarded machinery,
equipment or other property in any public place or so situated or operated on
private property as to attract minor children.
   (K)   Material from air. Throwing, dropping or releasing printed matter,
paper or any other material or objects over the city from an airplane, balloon
or other aircraft or in such a manner as to cause such material to fall or land
in the city.
   (L)   Interfering with drainage. Placing entrance culverts or doing any act
which may alter or affect the drainage of public streets or alleys or the
surface or grade of public streets, alleys or sidewalks without proper permit.
   (M)   Repairing vehicles or tires in streets. Making repairs to motor
vehicles or tires in public streets or alleys, excepting only emergency repairs
when it will not unduly impede or interfere with traffic.
   (N)   Trash in streets. Throwing, placing, depositing or burning leaves,
trash, lawn clippings, weeds, grass or other material in the streets, alleys or
gutters.
   (O)   Unauthorized signs. Erecting, painting or placing of unauthorized
traffic signs or advertising signs in streets, alleys or on sidewalks.
   (P)   Interference with radio or TV. All unnecessary interference and
disturbance of radios or TV sets caused by defective electrical appliances and
equipment or improper operation of any defective electrical appliances and
equipment.
   (Q)   Storing of boats, trailers, any sport vehicle, recreational vehicles,
and inoperative motor vehicles in front yards unless on the driveway during the
season of customary use only. For the purpose of this section, FRONT YARD means
any area between any public street and a line parallel to the public street at
the building line.
   (R)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection.
   (S)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations.
   (T)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance.
   (U)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property.
   (V)   Engine braking.
      (1)   No person may slow a vehicle by the practice known as engine
braking, also referred to as "jake braking" or "dynamic braking," whereby rapid
downshifting of a vehicle's engine is used in lieu of applying a vehicle's
brakes, causing loud noises to emit from the vehicle's engine and exhaust
system. Engine braking by any motor vehicle on any public highway, street,
parking lot or alley with the corporate limits of the City of Braham is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and is prohibited. This section shall not
apply to emergency vehicles.
      (2)   Penalty. Any person violating this division (V) may be issued an
administrative citation.
   (W)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.   
   (X)   Throw items from, jump from, hang from, climb upon, or engage in any
other unsafe or disruptive behavior on any bridge within the city limits.   
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 91.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state, or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 91.19 PUBLIC NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or association to
maintain any public "nuisance" as defined in this chapter and it shall further
be unlawful to do any act which act is defined as a public "nuisance" in this
chapter.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 91.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Council authorizes the Police Department or the City Administrator
to administer and enforce this chapter. The Police Department or City
Administrator may institute, in the name of the city, any appropriate actions
or proceedings against a violator as provided by law.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 91.21 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES.
   (A)   Administrative offense procedures established pursuant to this chapter
are intended to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost
effective, and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for
violations of certain ordinance provisions.
   (B)   Any officer of the Braham Police Department or any other person
employed by the city and having authority to enforce a code provision
designated as an administrative offense, shall, upon determining that there has
been a violation, notify the violator. Said notice shall set forth the nature,
date and time of violation, the name of the official issuing the notice, and
the potential for a penalty.
   (C)   The administrative citation procedures and penalties in this chapter
may be used for any violation of city code. The provisions of this chapter may
be used concurrently with or in addition to any other procedure or remedy,
criminal or civil, the city may pursue under city code, state law, or federal
law.
   (D)   A violation of any provision of the city code is considered an
administrative offense subject to the issuance of an administrative citation
and civil penalties pursuant to this chapter. Each day a violation exists
constitutes a separate offense. Violations may also be considered criminal
offenses and charged out accordingly.
   (E)   In cases where code violations involve real property, both the
responsible party and the property owner may be held accountable for violations
occurring on the said property after proper notice is given.
   (F)   Persons authorized to enforce city code violations include, but is not
limited to, any licensed police officer, any police reserve officer, community
service officer, or police personnel approved by the Chief of Police, any
designated City Code Enforcement personnel, Building Official, Building
Inspector, Zoning Administrator, Fire Chief, Deputy Fire Chief, and the City
Administrator. Persons may be restricted to enforcement of offenses within
their respective departments.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 91.22 NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person authorized to enforce provisions of the city code may issue
an administrative citation upon belief that a code violation has occurred.
   (B)   If the code violation involves real property, a property maintenance
concern letter must be sent to the property owner and the tenant notifying them
of the violations before an administrative citation is issued, unless this is a
subsequent violation within a 12-month period, at which time the letter can
accompany any citation issued.
   (C)   The citation may be issued in person or by US first class mail to the
person responsible for the violation and to the property owner identified by
the Isanti County or Kanabec County Property Records. The owner of the property
is responsible for the actions of the property's tenants and shall ensure
compliance with city codes as it affects their property.
   (D)   The person responsible for the violation must either pay the scheduled
civil penalty and bring the property into compliance within ten days or request
a hearing within ten days after issuance of the citation.
   (E)   A property owner or tenant may request an extension to come into
compliance, which may be granted or denied by the city. If an extension to come
into compliance is requested and granted, and the property owner or tenant does
not come into compliance by the extension date, the administrative fine imposed
with the citation for the violation shall not be rescinded. Additionally, a
request for an extension to the compliance deadline shall constitute an
admission to the violation, and a waiver of a right to request an
administrative hearing.
   (F)   The city reserves the authority to use the abatement process as
outlined in this chapter in lieu of or in addition to the nuisance violation
process.
   (G)   The City Administrator and the Chief of Police are authorized to
promulgate rules and forms to affect the procedures herein.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 91.23 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   (A)   Any person contesting an administrative offense pursuant to this
chapter may, within ten days after the issuance of the administrative citation,
request a hearing, except for those persons who requested an extension as
indicated in §
91.22(E).
   (B)   When requesting a hearing, the request must be in writing, addressed
to the city's Chief of Police, and executed by the property owner, tenant,
person cited, or person with an ownership interest in the property. It must
minimally state the location involved, date, and type of offense, the name and
contact information of that person, that person's relationship to the property
involved, the property owner's current name and contact information, and a
brief statement why the hearing is being requested. In cases where a non-owner
tenant is seeking a hearing, and where action is required to bring the property
into compliance, the property owner will be notified and should be present
during any hearing to represent their interest and responsibilities. The city
is not required to hold more than one hearing per property for same or similar
offenses. Failure to bring a property into compliance will result in potential
criminal, civil or abatement action being taken against both the property owner
and the tenant.
   (C)   The city may designate certain days when administrative hearings will
be held, but hearings should be conducted within 90 days from the time of
request if not sooner. The city may at any time, dismiss an administrative
citation and issue a criminal citation if it is believed this is a better
course of action to gain compliance.
   (D)   A Hearing Officer shall conduct an informal hearing to determine if a
violation has occurred. The Hearing Officer shall have the authority to dismiss
the violation or reduce or waive the penalty. If the violation is sustained by
the Hearing Officer, the person(s) found responsible shall pay the penalty
imposed and a library fee equal to the cost of the hearing within 30 days of
the date of the decision or within the time specified by the Hearing Officer.
If the case involves real property and code violations requiring attention, the
property shall also be brought into compliance by the date specified by the
Hearing Officer. Both the property owner and tenant may be held responsible for
this.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall be a neutral third party appointed by the
City Council. The Hearing Officer is authorized to hear and determine any
controversy relating to administrative offenses of the city code.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 91.24 PENALTIES AND CIVIL RECOVERY.
   (A)   An administrative offense may be subject to a civil penalty not less
than $20 nor shall it exceed $2,000. The City Council must adopt a schedule of
civil penalties for offenses initiated by administrative citation. The City
Council may adopt a schedule of fees to be paid to administrative hearing
officers.
   (B)   Subsequent offenses. In the event a person or property owner is
charged with a subsequent administrative offense within a 12-month period of
paying an administrative penalty for the same or substantially similar offense,
the subsequent administrative penalty may be doubled except as otherwise
provided by resolution.
   (C)   Any person cited for an administrative offense must either pay the
scheduled civil penalty within 30 days or request a hearing within ten days
after citation issuance.
   (D)   Any person, tenant, or property owner cited for an administrative
offense involving code or zoning violations upon real property must either pay
the scheduled civil penalty within 30 days and bring the property into
compliance within ten days or request a hearing within ten days after citation
issuance.
   (E)   Payment of the civil penalty constitutes admission of the violation.
   (F)   If a civil penalty is not paid within the time specified, a lien will
be placed upon the real property upon which the violation occurred. A lien may
be assessed against the property in the form of a special assessment and
collected in the same manner as taxes.
   (G)   A personal obligation may be collected by any appropriate legal means.
The city may use traditional debt collection methods to collect the fine and
any associated fees.
   (H)   A delinquent payment fee of 10% can be assessed for each 30-day
period, or part thereof, that the fine remains unpaid after the due date.
   (I)   During the time the civil penalty remains unpaid, no city approval
will be granted for a license, permit, or other city approval sought by the
violator of for property under the violator's ownership or control.
   (J)   If the citation is not paid and the violations not corrected, a
criminal citation may be issued as well.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 91.25 CITY ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Notice. Whenever an officer charged with enforcement determines that a
public nuisance is being maintained or exists on premises in the city, and
determines that the city abatement process is appropriate, the officer shall
notify, in writing, the owner or occupant of the premises of such fact and
order that such nuisance be terminated or abated.
   (B)   Service of notice. The notice shall be served in person or by regular,
certified or registered mail. If the premises are not occupied and the owner is
unknown, the notice may be served by posting it on the premises. The notice
shall specify the steps to be taken to abate the nuisance and the time, not
exceeding 30 days, within which the nuisance is to be abated.
   (C)   Noncompliance. If the notice is not complied with within the time
specified, the enforcing officer shall immediately report that fact to the City
Council. The enforcing officer shall also provide notice to the owner or
occupant of the premises that the City Council will consider the matter and may
provide for abating the nuisance by the city. The notice shall state the date
on which the City Council will consider the matter. Notice by the enforcing
officer shall be given at least ten days before the date stated in the notice
when the City Council will consider the matter. If notice of the fact that the
City Council will consider the matter is given by posting at least 30 days
shall elapse between the day of posting, and the date of consideration by the
City Council.
   (D)   Action of City Council. Upon notice from the enforcing officer of
noncompliance, the City Council may, after notice to the owner or occupant and
an opportunity to be heard, provide for abating the nuisance by the city.
   (E)   Immediate threat. If the nuisance poses an immediate threat to the
health or safety of the public, the city may abate the nuisance immediately
with no hearing.
(Ord. 300, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 91.26 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Administrator, or other official
designated by the City Council, shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it
to the owner. The amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of
the City Administrator.
   (B)   Assessment. If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on
private property, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the
traveled portion of streets, or unsound or insect infected trees, the City
Administrator shall, on or before September 1 next following abatement of the
nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along with all other such charges, as
well as other charges for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101
against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The
City Council may then spread the charges against such property under that
statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor
and collected along with current taxes the following year, or in annual
installments not exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in each case.
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Enforcement
   
92.03   Exceptions
   
92.04   License and registration
   
92.05   Licensing procedures
   
92.06   Vaccination required
   
92.07   Regulations
   
92.08   Rabies control
   
92.09   Biting animals to be quarantined
   
92.10   Domesticated chickens
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any non-human mammal, reptile, amphibian, or bird, domestic or non-
domestic, including dogs and cats.
   ANIMAL, DOMESTIC. Animals kept within the home and on the property as pets,
such as dogs, cats, pet ferrets, indoor pot-bellied pigs, and similar animals.
   ANIMAL, NON-DOMESTIC. Animals which are kept outside the home for purposes
of food or pleasure such as cattle, swine (not including indoor pot-bellied
pigs), horses, bees, sheep, goats, birds, such as falcons and pigeons, and
similar animals.
   AT LARGE. An unattended animal (not on a six-foot leash) on public property;
or an attended animal on private property without the consent of the property
owner.
   CAT. Any domesticated feline animal, male or female, whole or neutered.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has committed any of the acts set forth
below:
      (1)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human
being on public or private property;
      (2)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
      (3)   Been found to be a potentially DANGEROUS ANIMAL, and after the
owner has been notified that the animal is potentially dangerous, the animal
aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic
animals.
   DOG. Any canine animal, male or female, whole or neutered.
   ENCLOSURE. Any structure, except a dwelling, designed to securely enclose
and prevent an animal from escaping therefrom, and/or designed to provide the
animal with shelter and protection from the weather.
   FERRET. A partially-domesticated polecat that is sometimes classified as a
separate species, male or female, whole or neutered.
   KENNEL. Owning or harboring more than two animals of the same type shall
constitute keeping a kennel (for example, more than two dogs, more than two
cats, more than two ferrets, and the like).
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or department
possessing, harboring, keeping, having an interest in, or having custody or
control of an animal.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has committed any of the acts
set forth below:
      (1)   When unprovoked, bites a human or domestic animal;
      (2)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any other public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
      (3)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   RESTRAINED.
      (1)   On a leash of not more than six feet in length, and in the custody
of a person of sufficient age to adequately control the animal;
      (2)   In a vehicle; or
      (3)   RESTRAINED to the owner’s property.
   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which involves a temporary but
substantial disfigurement, or which causes a temporary but substantial loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ, or which causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
   UNATTENDED ANIMAL. Any animal off the premises of the owner and not under
the control of the owner, a member of his or her immediate family, or a person
designated by the owner, and not on a leash less than six feet in length.
(Ord. 275, passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 304, passed 2-7-2023)
§ 92.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General. The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the
Braham Police Department or their designated animal control officer who has a
contract for the duties with the city.
   (B)   Interference. No person shall, in any manner, interfere with or hinder
an animal control officer of his or her duties.
   (C)   Right of entry. For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by
this chapter, the animal control officer is empowered to enter upon private
property.
   (D)   Certain animals declared nuisances.
      (1)   No person shall keep, within the city limits, any animal which
habitually barks or cries for extended or unreasonable periods of time, and any
animal which damages plantings or structures, or deposits fecal matter on
private property of others after the person owning or harboring the animal has
been notified of the acts as herein provided, is hereby declared a nuisance.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by an animal nuisance may make a written
complaint to the City Administrator’s office stating the acts complained of,
the name and address of the owner or the animal, and the name and address of
the person making the complaint. The city shall then promptly notify the person
owning or keeping the animal, and shall order the nuisance abated within five
days. If the animal nuisance is not abated within that time, a charge may be
made against the owner or keeper of the animal, and any person found to have
violated the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   Certain animals not allowed to be kept within the city limits. The
keeping of non-domestic animals is not allowed within the city limits.
(Ord. 275, passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 304, passed 2-7-2023)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 92.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following provisions of this chapter shall not apply in the following
circumstances:
   (A)   Unless specified herein, the provisions of this chapter shall not
apply to animals used or confined at hospitals, clinics, or businesses operated
by licensed veterinarians.
   (B)   Section
92.06, relating to vaccination requirements, shall not apply to any animal
belonging to a non-resident of the city and kept within the city for not longer
than 30 days, provided, all animals shall, at all times while in the city, be
restrained by the owner.
   (C)   Definitions within §
92.01 relating to dangerous animals and potentially dangerous animals shall not
apply to dogs under the control of a law enforcement officer.
   (D)   Section
92.07(A) and (B) shall not apply to raptors possessed by licensed falconers
holding valid state and federal falconry permits, so long as the conditions of
the permit are being satisfied.
(Ord. 275, passed 12-1-2015)
§ 92.04 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION.
   All domestic animals within the city shall be licensed except the following:
   (A)   Animals less than six months of age;
   (B)   Animals whose owners are temporary visitors within the city for 30
days or less;
   (C)   Animals which are brought into the city for appearances in an animal
show; and
   (D)   Dogs being used by law enforcement officers.
(Ord. 275, passed 12-1-2015)
§ 92.05 LICENSING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Requirements. All domestic animals kept or maintained by their owner
within the corporate limits of the city shall be licensed and registered if
over six months of age.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Except as herein provided, within 30 days after acquiring
possession of an animal which has not been licensed by the city, the owner of
the animal shall make application for a license at the Braham Police
Department. A license shall continue in force for the life of the animal,
provided that the owner shows proof every year that the animal has current
vaccinations, and provided the owner reports any change of address to the city.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination, authorized by a licensed
veterinarian, for rabies and parvo vaccinations must be presented at the time
of licensing, and every year thereafter. Any owner of an animal not vaccinated
for rabies and parvo will be in violation of this section.
   (C)   License fee. The license fee for an animal license is set by City
Council from time to time. The benefit to licensing a pet is for identification
purposes should the animal be picked up. The license fee for a kennel license
is in an amount as set by Council from time to time per year.
   (D)   Duration of license. A license shall be issued for a period of time
not to exceed the expiration date of the rabies and parvo vaccinations.
   (E)   Issuance of license. 
      (1)   Upon completion of the application form and receipt of the proof of
vaccination, the Braham Police Department shall cause a license to be issued to
the applicant for a particular animal.
      (2)   In case any license tag is lost, a duplicate may be issued by the
City Administrator’s office. No person shall counterfeit, or attempt to
counterfeit the tags provided for in this chapter, nor shall any person, except
the owner, take from any animal a tag legally placed upon it, nor shall any
person place a tag upon another animal.
      (3)   License tags shall not be transferable.
   (F)   Kennels.
      (1)   No person shall maintain a kennel, as defined in §
92.01, without first securing a license pursuant to division (C) above. The
City Council shall have the power to attach reasonable conditions to the
issuance of any license. The maximum number of animals allowed under a kennel
license is six of the same species.
      (2)   In a R-1 zoning district, a maximum of three animals of the same
species is allowed per parcel without a kennel license.
      (3)   Any animals kept or maintained upon any premises in violation of
this section may be impounded under the provisions of §
92.07(I). Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (G)   Kennel license. Upon issuance of a kennel license, three to six
animals of the same species over the age of six months may be kept at a
licensed premises upon compliance with the following:
      (1)   The filing of written approval of the occupants of residential
property abutting the licensed premises;
      (2)   The yard of the licensed premises is fenced in a manner as to
restrain the animals on the premises from leaving the yard;
      (3)   Animals kept on the licensed premises do not create a nuisance by
excessive barking, howling, or by creating unsanitary conditions; and
      (4)   Payment of an annual license fee pursuant to division (F) above.
   (H)   Receipt and tags. The City Administrator’s office shall also procure a
sufficient number of metallic tags suitably numbered and lettered, and deliver
one appropriate tag to the taxpayer for each animal upon which the license is
issued.
   (I)   Tags to be attached to animal. When at all possible, the applicant
shall cause the tag to be affixed permanently by a metal fastening device to
the collar of the licensed animal, or in a manner that the tag may be easily
observed.
   (J)   Change of address. An applicant who has obtained a license shall
notify the City Administrator’s office of the applicant’s address changes
within the corporate limits of the city within ten days of any address changes.
(Ord. 275, passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 275, passed 8-3-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any domestic animal owner to keep or maintain any
animal older than six months of age unless it shall have been vaccinated with
an anti-rabies vaccine and a parvo vaccine by a licensed veterinarian. No
license renewal shall be issued except upon compliance with this section.
(Ord. 275, passed 12-1-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Restraint. Except as herein provided, the owner of an animal within
the city shall cause the animal to be restrained at all times.
   (B)   Animals in heat. The owner of an animal in heat shall confine the
animal to the owner’s property, or any veterinary hospital/clinic, in a manner
that the animal cannot come into contact with other animals, except for
intentional breeding purposes.
   (C)   Leash required. The owner of an animal within the city shall cause the
animal to be restrained by a leash, chain, or a cord of not more than six feet
in length and in the custody of a person of sufficient age and maturity to
adequately control the animal at all times while in a public place, including,
but not limited to, school yards, playgrounds, parks, or streets.
   (D)   Animal noise. The owner of an animal within the city shall prevent the
animal from becoming a nuisance by barking, baying, crying, or howling in any
manner for an unreasonable length of time and/or at an unreasonable hour of the
day. Persons aggrieved by an animal nuisance may make a complaint pursuant to §
92.02(D). Persons found to have violated the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   Cleaning up litter.
      (1)   The owner of an animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any
feces of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner.
      (2)   The owner of an animal shall not permit the animal to be on public
property, or the private property of another, without having, in the owner’s
immediate possession, a device for the removal of feces and a container for the
transporting of the excrement to a proper receptacle located on the property of
the animal owner.
      (3)   The owner of an animal shall remove feces left by the animal on
public property or private property of another to a proper receptacle located
on property of the animal owner.
   (F)   Animal care. The owner of an animal within the city shall provide the
animal with sufficient, wholesome food and water, proper shelter, and
protection from weather, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, and
with humane care and treatment.
   (G)   Abuse prohibited. No person shall beat, torment, or otherwise abuse an
animal, or cause or permit an animal fight.
   (H)   Guard dogs. A person who uses a dog for security purposes within the
city shall post a warning notice at the entrance of the premises.
   (I)   Impounding and confinement.
      (1)   The animal control officer, or local law enforcement, may impound
any animal running at large in violation of any of the terms of this section.
      (2)   The animal control officer shall provide proper sustenance and care
for all animals impounded.
      (3)   The animal shall be impounded for not more than ten calendar days,
or until claimed by the animal’s owner, whichever occurs first.
      (4)   Immediately upon impounding animals, reasonable efforts shall be
made to notify the owner and inform the owner of the animal’s confinement, and
the procedures for release of the animal to the owner.
      (5)   Any animal impounded hereunder may be reclaimed by the owner of the
animal within ten calendar days after the impoundment. Before the owner shall
be permitted to recover possession of the animal, the owner shall pay the
animal control officer all required fees and costs of impoundment, and show
proof of rabies and parvo vaccinations.
      (6)   An animal which is not redeemed within ten calendar days after
impounding may be sold, given to a rescue facility, or disposed of in a
sanitary manner by the animal control officer.
      (7)   Impound and boarding fees shall be determined by the city’s animal
control contract.
      (8)   Proof of rabies and parvo vaccinations shall be presented before an
animal is released. If the animal’s vaccinations are not current, the owner
must show proof of pre-payment for the vaccinations at a licensed veterinary
clinic before the animal is released. All fees must be paid before the animal
may be retrieved from the pound.
      (9)   The owner of an impounded animal is responsible for all costs
related to the impound and/or boarding of the animal. If the owner chooses not
to retrieve the animal from the animal control officer, he or she may sign a
release/waiver to the ten-day holding requirement.
   (J)   Breaking pound. No person shall break open, aid or assist, counsel or
advise, the breaking open of the pound, or take or let out, or attempt to take
or let out, any animal legally placed therein except the same be done by an
officer duly authorized by law.
(Ord. 275, passed 12-1-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Muzzling. Whenever the prevalence of rabies renders the action
necessary to protect the public health and safety, the Mayor shall issue a
proclamation ordering every person owning or keeping an animal to confine it
securely on his or her premises unless it is muzzled, so it cannot bite. No
person shall violate the proclamation, and any animal running at large during
the time fixed in the proclamation may be destroyed by the animal control
officer, or local law enforcement, without notice to the owner.
   (B)   Other controls.
      (1)   The state health laws and regulations are hereby adopted in cases
of rabid animals which have bitten any person, or animals suspected of being
rabid.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every physician to report to the city the
names and addresses of persons treated or bites inflicted by animals, together
with other information helpful in rabies control.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to
the local law enforcement his or her diagnosis of any animal observed by him or
her as a rabies suspect.
      (4)   Whenever the prevalence of rabies renders the action necessary to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare, the Mayor shall proclaim a
muzzling order pursuant to division (A) above. No person shall violate this
proclamation.
(Ord. 275, passed 12-1-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 BITING ANIMALS TO BE QUARANTINED.
   (A)   General. Whenever an animal has bitten a person, or whenever a known
or suspected rabid animal is picked up by the animal control officer, or local
law enforcement, the animal shall be confined for a minimum of ten days as
follows:
      (1)   If no proof of a current rabies vaccination is provided, the animal
shall be quarantined by the animal control officer; and
      (2)   A quarantined animal shall not be removed from quarantine without
the written permission of the local law enforcement.
   (B)   Vicious animals. 
      (1)   Whenever the City Administrator or local law enforcement determines
that any animal, whether wearing a tag or not, has bitten any person, the
animal may be deemed to be vicious for the purpose of this section. The animal
may be impounded by the animal control officer, or as otherwise designated by
the local law enforcement, for a period of ten days or more at the expense of
the owner of the animal.
      (2)   The animal shall not be released from the impound until authorized
by the local law enforcement. Except for the time limits, disposition and
redemption shall be in accordance with §
92.07(I). Failure to maintain quarantine at the specified location in
accordance with this section shall be unlawful.
      (3)   Any animal which habitually attacks or threatens people or animals
elsewhere than on the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer, or which is
afflicted with hydrophobia, shall be destroyed in a summarily manner and buried
by the animal control officer without, however, relieving the owner from
liability for due violation of this chapter.
      (4)   Whenever the animal control officer or local law enforcement has
reasonable cause to believe that a particular animal presents a clear and
immediate danger to residents of the city because it is either infected with
rabies, or because of a clearly demonstrated vicious nature, the officer, after
making reasonable attempts to impound the animal, may summarily destroy the
animal.
(Ord. 275, passed 12-1-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 DOMESTICATED CHICKENS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COOP. An enclosed structure where female chickens are kept, including
nest boxes for egg-laying and perches on which hens can sleep.
      PEN. A fully fenced in area attached to the coop in which the female
chickens have exposure to outside elements.
   (B)   The keeping of domesticated chickens is permitted in R-1 zoning
districts subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Any person wishing to keep chickens in the city on a property shall
submit an application and site map to keep domesticated chickens within the
city limits. If the application is approved, a permit will be issued as long as
the applicant adheres to the following rules:
      (2)   The principal use of the property shall be single-family
residential, under R-l zoning districts only;
      (3)   The property shall contain no more than one occupied, single-family
structure. Chickens shall not be permitted on vacant properties;
      (4)   The number of chickens per parcel shall be limited as follows:
         (a)   Less than one acre: maximum of five chickens; and
         (b)   One acre or more: maximum of ten chickens;
      (5)   No person shall keep a rooster;
      (6)   All chickens shall be of the subspecies Gallus domesticus and
tolerant of local climate conditions;
      (7)   Chickens shall not be kept inside the principal structure;
      (8)   No person shall slaughter chickens in public view or in the open;
      (9)   Chicken coops and attached exercise pens shall be provided for all
chickens;
      (10)   Coops and pens shall be fully enclosed (including overhead) and
constructed of durable materials;
      (11)   The floor area of the coop shall be a minimum of two square feet
in area per chicken;
      (12)   The floor area of the attached pen shall be a minimum of six
square feet in area per chicken;
      (13)   Coops and pens shall meet all accessory structure setback
requirements as outlined in §
154.280;
      (14)   Coops and pens shall be located in rear yards only;
      (15)   The total square footage of coop and attached pen combined shall
not exceed the following accessory structure requirements on parcels sized as
follows:
         (a)   Less than one acre: maximum of 50 square feet; and
         (b)   One acre or more: maximum of 100 square feet;
      (16)   Chickens shall be kept in coops and/or pens at all times;
      (17)   All food stored for chickens shall be kept in rodent proof
containers stored inside coops or other buildings;
      (18)   All premises in which chickens are kept or maintained, including
coops and pens, shall be kept reasonably clean from filth, garbage and any
substances which attract rodents. All feces shall be collected and properly
disposed of on at least a weekly basis;
      (19)   Disposal of dead chickens shall be done in a manner consistent
with all applicable laws and regulations;
      (20)   Chickens shall not be kept in such a manner as to constitute a
public nuisance as defined by the city;
      (21)   The sale of the eggs from chickens is allowed as long as the rules
are followed under the Minnesota Department of Agriculture.
      (22)   The city may enter and inspect any property, including the coop
and back yard, at any reasonable time for the purpose of investigating either
an actual or suspected violation or to ascertain compliance or noncompliance
with the certificate of compliance and the city code; and
      (23)   Any person wishing to keep chickens pursuant to this section shall
pay an initial application and site review fee in the amount set forth in the
city's fee schedule.
(Ord. 304, passed 2-7-2023)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor. Each day on which the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The permit to keep domesticated chickens can be revoked by the Braham
Police Department for failing to adhere to the requirements of §
92.10. Continued failure to adhere to the requirements of §
92.10 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 275, passed 12-1-2015; Ord. 304, passed 2-7-2023)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED, JUNKED, INOPERABLE VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Declaration of nuisance
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Parking, storage
   
93.04   Removal by city
   
93.05   Immediate sale
   
93.06   Public sale
   
93.07   Notice
   
93.08   Right to reclaim
   
93.09   Entry upon private property
   
93.10   Prohibition on city streets
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   The accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, junked, partially
dismantled, or inoperative vehicles within the city is hereby found to create
an unsightly condition tending to reduce the value of private property, to
invite plundering, to create fire hazards, to attract vermin, and to constitute
an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety of the
public. The accumulation and outside storage of the vehicles is determined to
be in the nature of rubbish litter and unsightly debris, which adversely affect
the health, safety, and general welfare of the community. Therefore, the
accumulation and storage of the vehicles on public or private property is
hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance which may be abated as provided
herein or as provided under any other ordinance of the city, or by the laws of
the state.
(Ord. 140, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle to which the last registered owner of record
thereof has relinquished dominion of what has remained for a period of more
than 48 hours on private property without the consent of the person in control
of the property, or has been in an inoperable condition for more than 48 hours,
that it has no substantial potential for further use consistent with its usual
functions, whether it is located on private or public property, unless it is
kept in an enclosed garage or storage building. It shall also mean a motor
vehicle voluntarily surrendered by its owner to, and accepted by, the city.
Appropriately licensed but inoperative pioneer, classic, or collector vehicles
as defined by M.S. § 168.10, as it may be amended from time to time, may be
stored on the owner’s property provided that the vehicles are screened from
public view by means of a six-foot high opaque fence.
   INOPERATIVE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which cannot be driven or propelled
under its own power in its existing condition, or which cannot be driven or
propelled under its own power in a safe manner because of its wrecked, junked,
or partially dismantled condition.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
   VEHICLE. Vehicle means any machine as defined under M.S. §§ 168.11 or
169.011, subd. 92, as they may be amended from time to time, including
automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, snowmobiles, and other
self-propelled machinery.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Parts of a motor vehicle that are essential to the
mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including, but not limited to, the
motor, drive train, and wheels.
(Ord. 140, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 93.03 PARKING, STORAGE.
   (A)   No person shall park, store, or leave, or permit the parking, storing,
or leaving of any abandoned vehicle or any vehicle which is in a wrecked,
junked, partially dismantled, or inoperative condition upon any property,
including private property, within the city for a period in excess of 48 hours
unless:
      (1)   The vehicle is completely enclosed within a building;
      (2)   The vehicle is under control of the city or its agent;
      (3)   The vehicle is stored or parked on private property in connection
with a business or commercial enterprise, operated and conducted in a lawful
manner, and when the parking or storing of vehicles is necessary to the
operation of the business or commercial enterprise; or
      (4)   The vehicle is stored or parked on private property of the owner
thereof, or a member of his or her family, for the purpose of making repairs
thereto, provided that at all times while the vehicle is so stored at least
one-half of the total number of wheels of the vehicle are in contact with the
ground, and only one vehicle be so stored or parked at any one time.
   (B)   In the event of a vehicle stored as provided in division (A)(4) above,
the vehicle may be so stored for a period not to exceed 14 days, after which
time the vehicle shall be deemed “abandoned”.
(Ord. 140, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 93.04 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   If the registered owner of any vehicle which is in violation of this
chapter, or if the owner or person in lawful possession or control of the
property upon which the vehicle is located, shall fail, neglect, or refuse to
remove or house the vehicle in accordance with this chapter, the City
Administrator, or the Police Department, may remove and dispose of the vehicle
in accordance with the provisions of §
93.06.
(Ord. 140, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 93.05 IMMEDIATE SALE.
   When an abandoned vehicle is more than seven model years of age, is lacking
vital component parts, and does not display a license plate currently valid in
this state or any other state or foreign country, it shall immediately be
eligible for sale at public auction, and shall not be subject to the
notification or reclamation provisions of §§
93.07 and
93.08.
(Ord. 140, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 93.06 PUBLIC SALE.
   (A)   An abandoned vehicle and its contents taken into custody and not
reclaimed under §
93.08 shall be sold to the highest bidder at public auction or sale following
ten days published notice thereof in the legal newspaper of the city. The
purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the vehicle. The
receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the vehicle and receive a
certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and claims of ownership.
Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it must receive a motor
vehicle safety check.
   (B)   From the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned vehicle, the city shall
reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving, and storing of the
vehicle, and all notice, publication, and administrative costs incurred
pursuant to this chapter. Any remainder from the proceeds of a sale shall be
held for the owner of the vehicle, or entitled lien holder, for a period of 90
days, and if not claimed shall thereafter be deposited in the City Treasury.
   (C)   The city shall have the right, under this chapter, to bid on any
abandoned or inoperative vehicle and contents sold at public auction or, in the
event that no bids are received, to claim title to any the vehicle and
contents.
(Ord. 140, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 93.07 NOTICE.
   (A)   When an abandoned vehicle does not fall within the provisions of §
93.05, the City Administrator, or the Police Department, shall give, or cause
to be given, within ten days of the taking, written notice setting forth the
date and place of taking, the year, make, model, and serial number of the
abandoned vehicle, if the information can be reasonably obtained, and the place
where the vehicle is being held, shall inform the owner and any lien holders of
his or her right to reclaim the vehicle under §
93.08, and shall state that failure of the owner or lien holders to exercise
his or her right to reclaim the vehicle shall be deemed a waiver by him or her
of all right, title, and interest in the vehicle, and a consent to the sale of
the vehicle at a public auction pursuant to §
93.06.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by mail to the registered owner, if any, or
person in lawful possession or control of the property upon which the vehicle
was abandoned, and all readily identifiable lien holders of record. If it is
impossible to determine, with reasonable certainty, the identity and address of
the registered owner and all lien holders, the notice shall be published once
in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the motor vehicle was
abandoned. Published notices may be grouped together for convenience and
economy.
(Ord. 140, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 93.08 RIGHT TO RECLAIM.
   (A)   The owner or any lien holder of any abandoned vehicle, or any person
in lawful possession or control of the property upon which the vehicle was
abandoned, shall have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the city upon payment
of all towing and storage charges, and an administrative fee in an amount as
set by Council from time to time resulting from the taking of the vehicle into
custody within 15 days after the date of the notice required by §
93.07.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair any lien of a
garage keeper under the laws of this state, or the right of a lien holder to
foreclose. For the purpose of this section, GARAGE KEEPER is an operator of a
motor vehicle storage facility, or an operator of an establishment for the
servicing, repair, or maintenance of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 140, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 93.09 ENTRY UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Any person, at the direction of the City Administrator or the Police
Department, is hereby expressly authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. 140, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 93.10 PROHIBITION ON CITY STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to abandon a vehicle in the right-of-way of
highways, roads, and streets within the city. No person shall park or leave any
vehicle in a wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled to inoperative condition
in a right-of-way of any street, provided that a reasonable time, not to exceed
24 hours from the time of disability, is permitted for the removal or servicing
of a disabled vehicle in an emergency caused by an accident or sudden breakdown
of the vehicle. However, this shall not prohibit the city or Police Department
from removing a vehicle which is blocking or otherwise endangering traffic.
(Ord. 140, passed 8-3-1992) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who abandons a motor vehicle on any public or private
property without the consent of the person in control of the property, or any
person who fails, neglects, or refuses to remove the abandoned, wrecked,
junked, partially dismantled, or inoperative vehicle, or to house the vehicle
and abate the nuisance in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine in an amount as set by Council from time to time, or by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both. Each day that a violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 140, passed 8-3-1992)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Codes adopted by reference
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Open burning
   
94.05   Appeals
   
94.06   Fire or barbeques on balconies or patios
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   This is a chapter adopting the Minnesota State Fire Code; regulating and
governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards
arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials
and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy
of buildings and premises in the City of Braham; and providing for the issuance
of permits and collection of fees. Optional appendix chapters shall not apply
unless specifically adopted in this chapter.
(Ord. 302, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 94.02 CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Minnesota State Fire Code, as adopted by the Minnesota Commission of
Public Safety pursuant to M.S. Chapter 299F.011, including all of the
amendments, rules, and regulations established, adopted and published from time
to time by the Minnesota Commissioner of Public Safety through the Fire
Marshall Division is hereby adopted by reference, including Appendix Chapters
E, F, H, I, and L.
(Ord. 302, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED FIRE OFFICIAL. Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or other designee who
provides fire protection or public safety services to the city.
   DISEASED SHADE TREE. Any tree infected by Dutch elm disease, Emerald Ash
Borer (EAB) infestation, oak wilt disease or any tree control program
established by the Minnesota Department of Agriculture.
   FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT. A contract between the city and a town or other
city for the city to provide fire service.
   FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to
extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to protect
equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire. It also includes
the deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to provide fire
suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire and
rescue as may occasionally occur.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes semitrailers. It does
not include snowmobiles, manufactured homes, all terrain vehicles, or park
trailers.
   MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a town or other city
for the city's Fire Department to provide assistance to the fire department of
a town or other city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter whereby the resultant combustion
products are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through an
adequate stack, duct, or chimney, except a recreational or camp fire as defined
herein. Mobile cooking devices such as charcoal grills, wood smokers,
manufactured hibachis, and propane or natural gas devices are not considered
open burning devices.
   RECREATIONAL/CAMP FIRE. A fire set in accordance with this chapter with an
approved starter fuel and is no more than three feet in diameter, contained
within a recreational fire site, for recreational, ceremonial, or social food
preparation.
   RECREATIONAL/CAMP FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three-foot diameter
circle (as measured from the inside of the fire ring or border), completely
surrounded by non-combustible and non- smoke or odor producing material, either
natural rock, cement, brick, tile, blocks, or ferrous metal. Burning barrels
are not a recreational fire site as defined herein.
   RUNNING FIRE. An attended fire allowed to spread through surface vegetative
matter under controlled conditions for the purpose of vegetative management,
forest management, game habitat management, or agricultural improvement.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, or charcoal
fire starter. Paraffin candles are permitted as a starter fuel and an aid to
ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas burning devices causing
minimal pollution may be used to start an open burn.
   VEGETATIVE MATERIALS. Dry leaves, dry grass clippings, twigs, branches, tree
limbs, and other similar materials. Paper and cardboard are not considered
vegetative materials.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuels, twigs, branches, limbs, manufactured fireplace logs,
charcoal, or cord wood. WOOD does not include wood that is green with leaves or
needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked, or treated with paint, glue, or
preservatives.
(Ord. 302, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 94.04 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Adoption of state law by reference. The provisions of M.S. Chapter 88,
as they may be amended from time to time, with reference to the definition of
terms, conditions of operation, permits, and all other matters pertaining to
open burning, are hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this
chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of the City Council that all
future amendments of M.S. Chapter 88 are hereby adopted by reference or
referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this chapter was
adopted.
   (B)   Open burning restrictions. No person shall cause, suffer, allow or
permit open burning.
   (C)   Open burning by permit. Open burning may be conducted if an open
burning permit is obtained pursuant to this section and is conducted in
accordance with the requirements of this section and the conditions of the
permit.
   (D)   Permit applications.
      (1)   Application. Application for open burning permits may be made in
cases where fires are proposed to be set for the following purposes:
         (a)   Bona fide instruction and training of firefighting personnel and
for the testing of fire extinguishing equipment;
         (b)   Elimination of fire or health hazards which cannot be abated by
any other practicable means;
         (c)   Activities in accordance with accepted forest or game
management;
         (d)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction;
         (e)   The disposal of trees, brush, grass, and other vegetative matter
in the development of land and right-of-way maintenance;
         (f)   The disposal of diseased shade trees;
         (g)   Activities in accordance with accepted agricultural practices;
         (h)   The disposal of building material generated by construction;
         (i)   The disposal of building material generated by the demolition of
noncommercial or non-institutional structures; and
         (j)   The open burning of dried leaves between September 15 and
December 1, provided that no open burning of leaves shall take place during an
air pollution alert, warning or emergency declaration by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency.
      (2)   Restrictions. A burning permit shall be issued on a prescribed form
to the applicant if the burning is for one of the purposes set forth in
division (D)(1) and the applicant agrees that all burning shall be conducted
under the following circumstances:
         (a)   The prevailing wind at the time of the burning shall be away
from nearby residences;
         (b)   The burning shall be conducted as far away as practical from any
highway or public road and controlled so that a traffic hazard is not created;
         (c)   The burning may not be conducted during the duration of an air
pollution alert, warning, or emergency;
         (d)   The recipient of the permit or his or her authorized
representative shall be present for the duration of any fire authorized by
permit;
         (e)   Prior notices shall be given to the local Department of Natural
Resources Forest Officer and the city's designated Fire Official of the time
and location of any fire authorized by the permit;
         (f)   Open burning for ground thawing shall be conducted in accordance
with the following additional restrictions:
            1.   Fuels and starting materials shall be of a kind which do not
generate appreciable smoke;
            2.   Coke used for ground thawing within 500 feet of dwellings or
occupied buildings shall contain less than 1% sulfur;
            3.   Ambient air quality standards for sulfur dioxide and carbon
monoxide shall not be exceeded at occupied residences other than those located
on the property on which the burning is being conducted; and
            4.   Propane gas thawing torches or other devices causing minimal
pollution shall be used when practicable;
         (g)   Open burning of materials pursuant to divisions (D)(1) (e), (f),
(g), (h), (i), and (j) shall be conducted in accordance with the following
additional restrictions:
            1.   The location of the burning shall not be within 600 feet of an
occupied residence other than those located on the property on which the
burning is conducted; and
            2.   Oils, rubber, and other similar smoke producing materials
shall not be burned or used as starting materials;
         (h)   Open burning of materials pursuant to division (D)(1)(i) shall
also only be conducted under controlled burning methods approved by the
Director; and
         (i)   The burning is conducted under such other reasonable conditions
as the permit issuing authority may impose.
      (3)   Permit issuers. In addition to the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency, the city's designated Fire Official are authorized to accept
applications and issue open burning permits.
      (4)   Permit denial. Any permit application submitted pursuant to this
regulation shall be denied if:
         (a)   A reasonable, practical alternative method of disposal of the
material is available; or
         (b)   A nuisance condition would result from the burning.
      (5)   Permit revocation. Any permit is subject to revocation at the
discretion of the Director, a Department of Natural Resources Forest officer,
the designated Fire Official of the city, or the permit issuer, if:
         (a)   A reasonable practical method of disposal of the material is
found;
         (b)   A fire hazard exists or develops during the course of the
burning; or
         (c)   Any of the conditions of the permit are violated.
   (E)   Liability. Exemption to conduct open burning or the granting of an
open burning permit under any provisions of this section does not excuse a
person from the consequences, damages, or injuries which may result therefrom.
   (F)   Conflicting laws. Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow
open burning in those areas in which open burning is prohibited by other laws,
regulations, or ordinances.
   (G)   Recreational/camp fire. A recreational fire is allowed without an open
burning permit under the following restrictions:
      (1)   No more than one recreational fire is allowed on any property at
one time;
      (2)   Fires shall not be allowed to smolder with no flame present and
must be extinguished completely before quitting the occasion;
      (3)   Recreational burning times are from 9:00 a.m. until midnight;
      (4)   The fire is conducted by a person at least 18 years of age tending
to the fire at all times;
      (5)   Recreational fire sites shall not be located closer than 25 feet to
any structure or combustible material;
      (6)   The fire burns using only dry, clean wood, producing little
detectable smoke, odor, or soot beyond the property line;
      (7)   Fire extinguishing equipment such as an operable fire extinguisher,
buckets, shovels, or garden hoses must be readily available and located within
ten feet of the recreational fire site;
      (8)   No recreational/camp fire is allowed when wind speeds exceed 15
miles per hour based on weather channel reports for sustained winds at the time
of the fire;
      (9)   A recreational/camp fire must burn cleanly in a manner that does
not cause objectionable smoke beyond the property line, as determined by the
Fire Official or a police officer;
      (10)   The adult tending to the recreational/camp fire must respect
weather conditions, neighbors, burning bans, and air quality requirements so
that nuisance, health, or safety hazards will not be created.
(Ord. 302, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 94.05 APPEALS.
   Wherever the designated Fire Official disapproves an application or refuses
to grant a permit applied for when it is claimed the provisions of the code do
not apply or the true intent and meaning of the code has been misconstrued or
wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal the decision of the designated
Fire Official to the City Council within 30 days from the date of the decision
to be appealed.
(Ord. 302, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 94.06 FIRES OR BARBECUES ON BALCONIES OR PATIOS.
   (A)   Open flame prohibited. In any structure containing three or more
dwelling units, no person shall kindle, maintain, or cause any fire or open
flame on any balcony above ground level, or on any ground floor patio within 15
feet of the structure unless the building has a fire suppression system.
   (B)   Fuel storage prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall store or use any fuel, barbecue, torch, or other
similar heating or lighting chemical or device in the locations designated in
(A) of this section.
      (2)   Exceptions. Listed electric or gas-fired barbecue grills that are
permanently mounted and wired or plumbed to the building's gas supply or
electrical system and that maintain a minimum clearance of 18 inches on all
sides, unless listed for lesser clearances, may be installed on balconies and
patios when approved by the designated Fire Official.
(Ord. 302, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 302, passed 11-1-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS, SECONDHAND GOODS DEALERS
      
113.   TOBACCO SALE, CONSUMPTION
      
114.   ADULT USES
      
115.   LAWFUL GAMBLING
      
116.   FOOD WAGONS
      
117.   CANNABINOID PRODUCTS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Municipal Liquor Dispensary
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Dispensary established; consumption
   
110.03   Location and operation
   
110.04   Dispensary Fund created
   
110.05   Hours of operation
   
110.06   Conditions of operation; restriction of consumption
   
110.07   Enforcement
Liquor Regulations; Licensing, Sales, Distilleries
   
110.20   Provisions of state law adopted
   
110.21   License or permit required
   
110.22   License application
   
110.23   Financial responsibility
   
110.24   License fees
   
110.25   Investigation fee
   
110.26   Granting of licenses and permits
   
110.27   Persons, places ineligible for licences and permits
   
110.28   Conditions of license
   
110.29   Types of licenses
   
110.30   On-sale intoxicating liquor and on-sale Sunday
   
110.31   On-sale club intoxicating liquor
   
110.32   Wine licenses
   
110.33   Consumption, display licences
   
110.34   Small brewer, off-sale
   
110.35   Suspension, revocation
   
110.36   Additional requirements
Delivery of Alcohol
   
110.50   Purpose, findings
   
110.51   Definitions
   
110.52   Prohibited acts
 
   
110.99   Penalty
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR DISPENSARY
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER. Any malt beverage with an alcoholic content of more than 0.5% by
volume, and not more than 3.2% by weight.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. Distilled, vinous, and fermented beverages
containing more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight.
   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
   OFF-SALE. Retail sale in the original package for consumption away from the
dispensary.
   SELL. All barters, gifts, and other means of furnishing intoxicating liquor
or beer in violation or evasion of this subchapter.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-7-1967; Ord. 81, passed 8-13-1974)
§ 110.02 DISPENSARY ESTABLISHED; CONSUMPTION.
   There is hereby established a municipal liquor dispensary for the off-sale
of intoxicating liquor. No person shall consume liquor in a public park or on a
public street.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-7-1967) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 LOCATION AND OPERATION.
   (A)   The dispensary shall be located at a suitable place in the city as a
council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes or other
public levies are delinquent shall be leased for dispensary purposes.
   (B)   The dispensary shall be in the immediate charge of a liquor store
manager and paid the compensation as is fixed by the Council. He or she shall
furnish a surety bond to the city, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of
his or her duties, in the sum as the Council specifies. The bond premium shall
be paid by the city. The manager shall operate the dispensary under the City
Administrator’s direction, and shall perform the duties in connection with the
dispensary as may be imposed upon him or her by the Council. He or she shall be
responsible to the City Administrator for the conduct of the dispensary, in
full compliance with this subchapter and with the laws relating to the sale of
liquor or beer.
   (C)   The Council shall also approve the hire of additional employees as may
be required for the dispensary and shall fix their compensation. All employees,
including the manager, shall hold his or her position at the pleasure of the
Council. No minor shall be employed in the dispensary. In the discretion of the
Council, the employees may be required to furnish surety bonds conditioned for
the faithful discharge of his or her duties, in the sums as the Council may
specify, and shall be paid by the city.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-7-1967)
§ 110.04 DISPENSARY FUND CREATED.
   (A)   A Municipal Liquor Dispensary Fund is hereby created in which all
revenues received from the operation of the dispensary shall be deposited, and
from which all ordinary operating expenses shall be paid. Any amounts it may be
necessary to borrow from the General Fund of the city for initial costs of
rent, fixtures, and stock, or for operating expenses, shall be reimbursed to
that fund out of the first available moneys coming into the Dispensary Fund
thereafter. Surpluses accumulating in the Dispensary Fund may be transferred to
the General Fund, or to any other appropriate fund of the city by resolution of
the Council, and expended for any municipal purpose.
   (B)   The handling of municipal liquor dispensary receipts and disbursements
shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law for the receipts and
disbursements of city funds generally.
   (C)   The Council shall provide, as soon as possible, following the close of
each fiscal year, for an audit of the accounts of the municipal liquor
dispensary for that fiscal year by the Public Examiner or a public accountant.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-7-1967)
§ 110.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No sales shall be made at any time or on any day prohibited by law.
   (B)   The dispensary shall not be open for business of any kind during the
hours when sales of intoxicating liquor are prohibited.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-7-1967; Ord. 260, passed 1-6-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION; RESTRICTION OF CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   No business other than the sale of liquor off-sale shall be carried on
in the dispensary, except the retail sale of cigars, cigarettes, all forms of
tobacco, a off-sale beer, and soft drinks.
   (B)   No person shall keep, possess, or operate, in any part of the
dispensary, any slot machine, dice, or other gambling device, or permit the
same to be kept or used. No person shall gamble on the premises, and no
gambling of any character shall be permitted thereon.
   (C)   No liquor or beer, or other merchandise, shall be sold on credit.
   (D)   No minor shall be permitted to remain on the dispensary premises.
   (E)   No liquor or beer shall be sold or served to a minor, directly or
indirectly.
   (F)   No minor shall misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
obtaining liquor or beer.
   (G)   No liquor or beer shall be sold to an intoxicated person.
   (H)   The dispensary shall be inspected by the Health Officer of the city at
least once each six months, and as many other times as he or she deems
necessary to ensure that the premises are maintained in a sanitary condition.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-7-1967) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all police officers and constables of the city to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter, and to search premises and seize
evidence of law violation, and preserve the same as evidence against any person
alleged to be violating this subchapter, and to prepare the necessary processes
and papers therefor.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-7-1967)
LIQUOR REGULATIONS; LICENSING, SALES, DISTILLERIES
§ 110.20 PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   (A)   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to
time, relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales,
financial responsibility of licensees, hours of sale, exceptions to permits or
license requirements, and all other matters pertaining to the retail sale,
distribution, and consumption of alcoholic beverages, are adopted and made a
part of this subchapter as if set out in full. To the extent that state law
authorizes a city to, by ordinance, provide for the issuance of a license or
permit for any particular establishment or activity, this subchapter shall be
deemed to grant the city that authority.
   (B)   The city has established (by §§
110.01 through
110.07), and currently operates, a municipal liquor store. The city issues
private liquor licenses pursuant to state law and voter approval of “split
liquor”. Under the statutory restrictions for split liquor, the city does not
have authority to issue licenses to exclusive liquor stores, but only to
hotels, clubs, and restaurants, as these businesses are defined by state law.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 110.21 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, except those authorized by state license or permit, or those
expressly exempted by state law, shall directly or indirectly, on any pretense
or by any device, barter, deal in, sell, keep for sale, charge for possession,
or otherwise give, provide, or dispose of any alcoholic beverage as part of a
commercial transaction without first having received a license or permit to do
so as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.22 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every application for a license to sell liquor shall be verified and filed
with the City Administrator. Each application for a license shall be in the
form prescribed by the state or city. No person shall make a false statement in
an application.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No license or permit may be issued, maintained, or renewed unless the
applicant or licensee demonstrates proof of financial responsibility as defined
in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with regard to
liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   All applications for initial and renewal licenses shall be accompanied
by proof of any statutorily required surety bond, workers compensation, and
liability insurance.
   (C)   The city shall be named as an additional insured on all policies, and
all policies must provide that they will not be cancelled or suspended without
30 days’ prior written notice being provided to the city. Failure to maintain
the required insurance shall immediately cause any issued license or permit to
be suspended without further action of the city. Alcoholic beverages may not be
sold or provided at any time the statutorily required insurance is not valid.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 110.24 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Annual fee. Annual fees for licenses shall be set from time to time by
the Council.
   (B)   Expiration date. All licenses shall expire on December 31 of each
year. Except for temporary or special event licenses, each license shall be
issued for a period of one year. If a portion of the license year has elapsed
when the application is made, a license may be issued for the remainder of the
year for a pro rata fee.
   (C)   Refunds. No part of the fee paid for any license issued shall be
refunded except in the following instances, upon application to the Council
within 30 days from the happening of the event. There shall be refunded a pro
rata portion of the fee for the unexpired period of the license, computed on a
monthly basis when operation of the licensed business ceases not less than one
month before expiration of the license because of:
      (1)   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
      (2)   The licensee’s illness;
      (3)   The licensee’s death; and/or
      (4)   A change in the legal status of the city, making it unlawful for
the licensed business to continue.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.25 INVESTIGATION FEE.
   On an initial application for an “on-sale” license, and on the application
for transfer of an existing “on-sale” license, the applicant shall pay, with
his or her application, an investigation fee of $50, and the city shall conduct
a preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant. The
application in case shall be made on a form prescribed by the State Bureau of
Criminal Apprehension, and with the additional information as the Council may
require. If the Council deems it in the public interest to have an
investigation made on a particular application for renewal of an “on-sale”
license, it shall so determine. In any case, if the Council determines that a
comprehensive background and financial investigation of the applicant is
necessary, it may conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Bureau
of Criminal Apprehension for the investigation. No license shall be issued,
transferred, or renewed if the results show, to the satisfaction of the
Council, that issuance would not be in the public interest. If an investigation
outside the state is required, the applicant shall be charged the cost, not to
exceed $10,000, which shall be paid by the applicant after deducting any
initial investigation fee already paid. The fee shall be payable by the
applicant whether or not the license is granted.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 110.26 GRANTING OF LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Council action. The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the
application. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for, or
against, the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall grant or refuse the application at its discretion. If the
application is rejected, the city shall refund the license fee.
   (B)   License transfer prohibited. Each license shall be issued to the
applicant only. Each license shall be issued only for the premises described in
the application. No license may be transferred to another person, including to
a reorganized corporate entity, or to another place, without the approval of
the city.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 110.27 PERSONS, PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   No license shall be granted to any person or place made ineligible for
a license by state law.
   (B)   No more than one “on-sale” intoxicating liquor license shall be
directly or indirectly issued within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted for operation on any premises on which
taxes, assessments, or other financial claims of the city are delinquent and
unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be granted within 400 feet of any school, or within
400 feet of any church. In applying this restriction, the distance shall be
measured between the main front entrances following the route of ordinary
pedestrian travel. This restriction does not apply to temporary license
requests received from a church.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   General conditions/closing hours. Every license shall be granted
subject to the conditions in the following divisions and all other provisions
of this subchapter, and of any other applicable ordinances of the city or state
law. No sale of alcoholic beverages shall be made during the dates and times
for which the sales are prohibited by state statutes. During the prohibited
dates and times, no person shall be allowed to be in, or remain within, any
room, place, or premises where alcoholic beverages are permitted to be sold for
any purpose whatsoever more than 45 minutes after closing time, except that the
licensee, and any agents or employees of the licensee, may be and remain for
the purpose only of cleaning, preparation of meals, necessary repairs or
maintenance, bookkeeping, or for the purpose of acting as security. Sunday
sales are allowed to the fullest extent authorized by statute, and any eligible
licensee may be granted extended hours by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (B)   Licensee responsibility. Every licensee shall be responsible for all
conduct in the licensed business, and any sale of alcoholic beverages by any
employee authorized to sell the beverages in the establishment is the act of
the licensee. The licensee and employees shall maintain conditions of sobriety
and order.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 110.29 TYPES OF LICENSES.
   The city may issue any license authorized by law, including, but not limited
to:
   (A)   On-sale intoxicating liquor;
   (B)   On-sale club intoxicating liquor;
   (C)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor;
   (D)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor;
   (E)   On-sale 3.2% malt liquor;
   (F)   Off-sale 3.2% malt liquor;
   (G)   Temporary on-sale 3.2% malt liquor;
   (H)   On-sale wine licenses;
   (I)   Consumption and display (setup) licenses;
   (J)   Brew pub on-sale;
   (K)   Brew pub off-sale;
   (L)   Brewer taproom;
   (M)   Small brewer off-sale;
   (N)   Cocktail room;
   (O)   Microdistillery off-sale; and
   (P)   Temporary on-sale brewer or microdistillery.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 110.30 ON-SALE INTOXICATING LIQUOR AND ON-SALE SUNDAY.
   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses and on-sale Sunday liquor licenses will
be issued to hotels, restaurants, and entertainment establishments, including
but not limited to live music venues who sell tickets to performances and
bowling alleys who comply with state liquor laws.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018; Ord. - -, passed 4-6-2021)
§ 110.31 ON-SALE CLUB INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   On-sale club intoxicating liquor licenses allow sales only to members or
their guests.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 110.32 WINE LICENSES.
   (A)   Unless specified otherwise by the city, wine licenses authorize the
sale of wine on Sunday.
   (B)   Unless specified otherwise by the city, a holder of an on-sale wine
license who is also licensed to sell 3.2% malt liquors at on-sale, and whose
gross receipts are at least 60% attributable to the sale of food, may sell
intoxicating malt liquors at on-sale without an additional license.
   (C)   The city may issue an on-sale wine license with the approval of the
Commissioner to a licensed bed and breakfast facility. A license under this
section authorizes a bed and breakfast facility to furnish wine only to
registered guests of the facility. No license is required for bed and breakfast
facilities listed as exempt under state law.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 110.33 CONSUMPTION, DISPLAY LICENSES.
   (A)   Temporary or annual permits or licenses shall be issued as provided in
M.S. § 340A.414, as it may be amended from time to time, upon the terms or
annual fees as established by the Council upon issuance.
   (B)   Other terms and conditions of this subchapter shall apply to
consumption and display permits or licenses.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 110.34 SMALL BREWER, OFF-SALE.
   A brewer’s total retail off-sales under this subchapter may not exceed 500
barrels per year.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 110.35 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION.
   (A)   Except in cases of failure of financial responsibility, no suspension
or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded an
opportunity for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 through 14.69, as they may
be amended from time to time, of the Administrative Procedure Act.
   (B)   Lapse of required dram shop insurance or bond, or withdrawal of a
required deposit of cash or securities, shall effect an immediate suspension of
any license issued pursuant to this subchapter without further action of the
City Council. Notice of cancellation, lapse of a current liquor liability
policy or bond, or withdrawal of deposited cash or securities shall also
constitute notice to the licensee of the impending suspension of the license.
The holder of a license who has received notice of lapse of required insurance
or bond, or withdrawal of a required deposit, or of suspension or revocation of
a license, may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the City Administrator, a hearing shall be granted within ten days, or a
longer period as may be requested. Any suspension under this section shall
continue until the City Council determines that the financial responsibility
requirements of this subchapter have again been met.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 110.36 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Brew pubs, taprooms, off-sale malt liquor establishments, cocktail rooms,
distilleries, and wineries are subject to §§
154.095 through
154.105, and as amended.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
DELIVERY OF ALCOHOL
§ 110.50 PURPOSE, FINDINGS.
   (A)   Historically, the city discourages the underage possession and
consumption of alcohol, even if done within the confines of a private
residence, and intends to assure that the ability of underage individuals to
access alcoholic beverages is thwarted, and that sales to underage individuals
are strictly enforced.
   (B)   The City Council finds that:
      (1)   The possession and consumption of alcohol by persons under the age
of 21 is harmful to persons under the age of 21, and constitutes a potential
threat to public health requiring prevention or abatement;
      (2)   Prohibiting underage consumption protects underage persons, as well
as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol consumption, such as
alcohol overdoses or alcohol related traffic accidents;
      (3)   Alcohol is an addictive drug which, when used irresponsibly, can
have a significant impact on those who use it, as well as those who are
affected by the actions of an irresponsible user;
      (4)   In order to ensure that municipalities have the ability to control
the sale and consumption of alcohol within city limits, the state legislature
adopted statutory language prohibiting the sale of alcohol by non-municipal
dispensaries within the city;
      (5)   Further, Minn. Rules part 7515.0580 provides that “no off-sale
retailer shall sell, ship, or deliver alcoholic beverages to purchasers in any
county, municipality, or area where the sale or delivery thereof is prohibited
by law”; and
      (6)   A deterrent effect on the consumption of alcohol by underage
persons will be created by assuring that off-sale retail liquor stores located
outside the corporate boundaries of the city are prohibited from delivering
alcoholic beverages to locations within the city.
   (C)   Therefore, the City Council has determined that an ordinance
prohibiting off-site delivery of liquor is deemed necessary to help further
combat underage consumption, and is in the public interest.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 110.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing more than 0.5% alcohol by
volume.
   PERSON. Any off-sale retail liquor store licensee, and any individual,
partnership, corporation, or any association of one or more individuals
employed or assisting the licensee.
   PREMISES. Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment, condominium, hotel
or motel room, place, dwelling unit, hall, meeting room, park, place of
assembly, or business, whether retail, manufacturing, industrial, public or
private, whether occupied or unoccupied, on a temporary or permanent basis.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
§ 110.52 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to deliver alcoholic beverages by, or on
behalf of, any off-sale retail liquor store located inside or outside the
corporate boundaries of the city to any premises within the corporate
boundaries of the city.
   (B)   A person is criminally responsible for violating this subchapter if
the person intentionally aides, advises, hires, counsels, or conspires with, or
otherwise procures another to commit, the prohibited act.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
110.01 through
110.07 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine in an amount as set by Council from time to time, or shall
be imprisoned in the city lockup (or county jail) not to exceed 90 days,
provided, also, any employee of a dispensary willfully violating any provision
hereof, or any provision of the laws of state relating to gambling or the sale
of intoxicating liquor or beer, shall be discharged.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
110.20 through
110.36 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a
fine in an amount as set by Council from time to time, or imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, plus the cost of prosecution in any case.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
110.50 through
110.52 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   The Council may suspend for up to 60 days, or revoke, any liquor
license, or impose a civil fine in an amount as set by Council from time to
time, for each violation upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or ordinance relating to alcoholic
beverages. In order to establish a greater degree of certainty regarding
penalties, the Council will presumptively act as follows, but may depart from
this schedule based on the circumstances of a particular violation: upon a
first non-willful violation, the Council will suspend any license for not more
than ten days and impose a fine in an amount as set by Council from time to
time; upon a second violation, the Council may suspend the license for not more
than 60 days and impose a fine in an amount as set by Council from time to
time; and, upon a third violation, the Council may permanently revoke the
license.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-7-1967; Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2018)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Exclusion on premises
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person with no fixed place of business who goes from house to
house carrying or transporting goods, wares, or merchandise, and offering or
exposing the same for sale, or making sales and deliveries to purchasers of the
same.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house to house soliciting, or taking, or
attempting to take, orders for the purchase of any goods, wares, or
merchandise, including magazines, books, periodicals, or personal property of
any nature whatsoever for delivery in the future, or for services to be
performed then or in the future.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS. Any person, firm, or corporation who engages
temporarily in the business of selling and delivering goods, wares, or
merchandise within the city, and who, in furtherance of the purpose hires,
leases, uses, or occupies any building, structure, vacant lot, motor vehicle,
trailer, or railroad car.
(Ord. 226, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 111.02 EXCLUSION ON PREMISES.
   (A)   Any resident of the city who wishes to exclude peddlers, solicitors,
or transient merchants from the premises occupied by him or her may place upon,
or near, the usual entrance to the premises a printed placard or sign bearing
the following notice: “Peddlers, Solicitors or Transient Merchants Prohibited”.
The placard shall be at least three and three-fourths inches long and three and
three-fourths inches wide, and the printing thereon shall not be smaller than
48-point type.
   (B)   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall enter in, or upon,
any premises, or attempt to enter in, or upon, any premises, where the placard
or sign is placed and maintained.
   (C)   No person, other than the person occupying the premises, shall remove,
injure, or deface the placard or sign.
(Ord. 226, passed 11-10-2003) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 226, passed 11-10-2003)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS, SECONDHAND GOODS DEALERS
Section
   
112.01   Statutes adopted
   
112.02   Definitions
§ 112.01 STATUTES ADOPTED.
   Pawnbrokers shall be regulated by this chapter, which adopts M.S. Chapter
325J, as it may be amended from time to time, and any successor or amending
statue by reference as part of this chapter.
(Ord. 195, passed 10-4-1999)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Braham.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The specific building which has been licensed pursuant to
this chapter. LICENSED PREMISES includes any out buildings, attached or
detached, to the LICENSED PREMISES, which has been included in the license.
   RECEIVE. To purchase, accept for sale on consignment, or take in pawn any
secondhand goods.
   SECONDHAND GOODS DEALER. Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation whose
regular business includes selling or receiving any tangible personal
properties, excluding motor vehicles, previously used, rented, or leased.
      (1)   The term SECONDHAND GOODS DEALER shall include PAWNBROKERS.
      (2)   SECONDHAND GOODS DEALER shall not apply to, or include, the
following.
         (a)   The sale of secondhand goods where all of the following are
present:
            1.   The sale is held on property occupied as a dwelling by the
seller or owned, rented, or leased by a charitable or political organization;
            2.   The items offered for sale are owned by the occupant;
            3.   No sale exceeds a period of 96 consecutive hours;
            4.   No more than four sales are held in any 12-month period; and
            5.   None of the items offered for sale shall have been purchased
for sale or received on consignment for purpose of resale.
         (b)   The sale of secondhand books or magazines;
         (c)   The sale of goods at an auction held by an auctioneer;
         (d)   The business of buying or selling only those secondhand goods
taken as part or full payment for new goods, and where the business is incident
to, and not the primary, business of a person;
         (e)   A bulk sale of property from a merchant, manufacturer, or
wholesaler having an established place of business, or of goods sold at open
sale from bankrupt stock; and
         (f)   Goods sold at a farmer’s market.
(Ord. 195, passed 10-4-1999)
CHAPTER 113: TOBACCO SALE, CONSUMPTION
Section
   
113.01   Purpose, intent
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License
   
113.04   Denial of license
   
113.05   Fees
   
113.06   Prohibited sales
   
113.07   Self-service sales
   
113.08   Responsibility
   
113.09   Compliance checks, inspections
   
113.10   Other illegal acts
   
113.11   Exceptions, defenses
   
113.12   Violations
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE, INTENT.
   (A)   Because the city recognizes that the sale of tobacco, tobacco-related
devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery products
to persons under the age of 18 violates both state and federal laws; and
because studies, which the city hereby accepts and adopts, have shown that most
smokers begin smoking before they have reached the age of 18 years, and that
almost no one starts smoking after age 25; and because national data show that
about 95% of adult smokers begin smoking before they turn 21, and the ages of
18 to 21 are a critical period when many smokers move from experimental smoking
to regular, daily use; and because tobacco use has been shown to be the cause
of several serious health problems which, subsequently, place a financial
burden on all levels of government; this chapter intends to regulate the sale
of tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine
or lobelia delivery products for the purpose of enforcing, and furthering,
existing laws, to protect youth and young adults against the serious effects
associated with use and initiation, and to further the official public policy
of the state in regard to preventing young people from starting to smoke as
stated in M.S. § 144.391, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   In making this determination, the City Council accepts the findings
presented by the County Public Health Department at the May 7, 2019 City
Council meeting, and referenced in the county ordinance regulating the
possession, sale, and consumption of tobacco and tobacco-related devices and
products within the county, adopted March 20, 2019.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. Chapters 461 and 145A, as
they are amended from time to time, allowing for local ordinances to set more
restrictive regulations on the provision of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-
related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery
devices.
   (D)   Pursuant to M.S. § 145A.05, subd. 1 and subd. 9, as it may be amended
from time to time, this chapter shall apply to all licenses issued by the city.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIGARS. Any roll of tobacco that is wrapped in tobacco leaf or in any
substance containing tobacco, with or without a tip or mouthpiece, that is not
a cigarette as defined in M.S. § 297F.01, subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying with the
requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall involve the use of
persons under age 21 as authorized by this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall
also mean the use of persons under age 21 who attempt to purchase licensed
products for educational, research, and training purposes, as authorized by
state and federal laws. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by other units
of government for the purpose of enforcing appropriate federal, state, or local
laws and regulations relating to licensed products.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance intended for human consumption through
inhalation of vapor or liquid from the product. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE
shall include any component part of a product, whether or not sold separately.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited to, device
manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens,
mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor. ELECTRONIC
DELIVERY DEVICE does not include drugs, devices, or combination products
authorized for sale by the United States Food and Drug Administration, as those
terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   HOOKAH. A pipe with a long, flexible tube by which the smoke is drawn
through a jar of water and thus cooled for the use of tobacco or tobacco-
related products.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. INDIVIDUALLY WRAPPED TOBACCO AND TOBACCO
PRODUCTS shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container, as described in this definition, shall not be
considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.
   INDOOR AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by
walls, doorways, or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than 50% of
the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the perimeter of
the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other
physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent.
   LICENSED PRODUCTS. Collectively refers to any tobacco, tobacco-related
device, electronic delivery device, or nicotine or lobelia delivery product.
   LOOSIES. Single or individually packaged cigarettes, cigars, or any other
licensed product that has been removed from its intended retail packaging and
offered for sale. The term LOOSIES does not include individual cigars with a
retail price, before any sales taxes, of more than $2 per cigar.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile, kiosk, trailer, or other type of vehicle or transportable
shelter, and not a fixed address store front or other permanent type of
structure authorized for sales transactions.
   NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY DEVICES. Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of a product
that is not tobacco as defined in this section, not including drugs, devices,
or combination products authorized for sale by the United States Food and Drug
Administration, as those terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed, indoor area used by the general public,
including, but not limited to, restaurants, bars, any other food or liquor
establishment, retail and other commercial establishments, educational
facilities, hospitals, nursing homes, auditoriums, arenas, meeting rooms,
waiting rooms, and common areas of rental apartment buildings.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where licensed products are
available for sale to the general public. The phrase shall include, but not be
limited to, grocery stores, convenience stores, restaurants, and drug stores.
   SALE. Any transfer or distribution of goods for money, trade, barter, or
other consideration.
   SAMPLING. The lighting of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related
devices, or the activation of, and inhaling of, vapor from electronic
cigarettes in a retail establishment by a customer, or potential customer, for
the purpose of SAMPLING the product or device before a purchase.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of licensed products in any manner
where any person shall have access to the licensed products, without the
assistance or intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee. The
assistance or intervention shall entail the actual, physical exchange of the
licensed products between the customer and the licensee or employee. SELF-
SERVICE SALES are interpreted as being any sale where there is not an actual
physical exchange of the product between the clerk and the customer.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, hookah, or any other lighted or heated product, whether
natural or synthetic, containing, made, or derived from nicotine, tobacco,
marijuana, or other plant, that is intended for inhalation. SMOKING also
includes carrying or using an activated electronic delivery device.
   SMOKING LOUNGE. A tobacco products shop which allows customers to be seated.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Includes cigarettes and any product containing,
made, or derived from TOBACCO that is intended for human consumption, whether
chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by
any other means, or any component, part, or accessory of a TOBACCO PRODUCT;
cigars; cheroots; stogies, perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready
rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour; cavendish; plug and
twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps,
clippings, cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; dipping tobaccos; and other
kinds and forms of TOBACCO, TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include drugs,
devices, or combination products authorized for sale by the United States Food
and Drug Administration, as those terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS SHOP. Any licensed retail establishment that derives at
least 90% of its revenue from tobacco or tobacco products, and where no person
under the age of 21 is present, or permitted to enter, at any time.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Includes any pipe, rolling papers, or other device
intentionally designed, or intended to be used, with tobacco products. TOBACCO-
RELATED DEVICES includes components of TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES which may be
marketed or sold separately.
   VAPOR LOUNGE. A vapor products shop which allows customers to be seated.
   VAPOR PRODUCTS SHOP. A retail establishment with an entrance door opening
directly to the outside that derives more than 90% of its gross revenue from
the sale of electronic delivery devices, electronic cigarettes, and related
products, and in which the sale of other products is merely incidental. VAPOR
PRODUCTS SHOP does not include a vapor products department or section of any
individual business establishment with any type of food, liquor, or restaurant
license.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses licensed products upon the insertion of money, tokens,
or other form of payment directly into the machine by the person seeking to
purchase the licensed product.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 113.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person, business, or entity shall sell, or offer
to sell, any licensed products without first having obtained a license to do so
from the city.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license to sell licensed products
shall be made on a form provided by the city. The application shall contain the
full name of the applicant, the applicant’s residential and business addresses
and telephone numbers, the name of the business for which the license is
sought, and any additional information the city deems necessary. Upon receipt
of a completed application, the City Administrator shall forward the
application to the City Council for action at its next regularly scheduled City
Council meeting. If the City Administrator determines an application
incomplete, he or she shall return the application to the applicant with notice
of the information necessary to make the application complete.
   (C)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it
may delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
City Council approves the license, the City Administrator shall issue the
license to the applicant. If the City Council denies the license, notice of the
denial shall be given to the applicant, along with notice of the applicant’s
right to appeal the City Council’s decision.
   (D)   Term. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid for one
calendar year, expiring on December 31.
   (E)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this section may be
revoked or suspended as provided in §
113.12.
   (F)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued, and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the City Council.
   (G)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible for
licensing under this section.
   (H)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, before the
expiration of the current license.
   (J)   Issuance as privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license
issued under this section shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute
right of the applicant, and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic
renewal of the license.
   (K)   Smoking. Smoking shall not be permitted, and no person shall smoke
within the indoor area of any establishment with a retail tobacco license.
Smoking for the purposes of sampling tobacco and tobacco-related products is
prohibited.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license under this
chapter includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted, within the past five years, of
any violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to licensed products;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products revoked
within the preceding 12 months of the date of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information; and/or
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license.
   (B)   However, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of
any particular ground for denial does not mean that the city must deny the
license.
   (C)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this chapter.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 113.05 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a tobacco license under this chapter
shall be established in the City Council. Established fees and charges may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 113.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell, or offer to
sell, any licensed product:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 21 years;
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine;
   (C)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
a make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises in
order to receive the licensed product, and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the licensed product between the licensee, or the licensee’s
employee, and the customer;
   (D)   By means of loosies, as defined in §
113.02;
   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances, except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco, or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process; and
   (F)   By any other means to any other person, or in any other manner or form
prohibited by federal, state, or other local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the sale of
licensed products by any means whereby the customer may have access to those
items without having to request the item from the licensee or the licensee’s
employee, and whereby there is not a physical exchange of the licensed product
between the licensee, or his or her clerk, and the customer. All licensed
products shall either be stored behind a counter or other area not freely
accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage unit not left open and
accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling licensed products at the
time this chapter is adopted shall comply with this section within 90 days
following the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions
of their employees in regard to the sale of licensed products on the licensed
premises, and the sale of an item by an employee shall be considered a sale by
the license holder. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the city from also subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate
under this chapter, state or federal law, or other applicable law or
regulation.
   (B)   Notice of the legal sales age and the age verification requirement
shall be posted at each location where licensed products are offered for sale.
The required signage, which will be provided to the licensee by the city, shall
be posted in a manner so that it is clearly visible to anyone who is
considering or making a purchase.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 COMPLIANCE CHECKS, INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the City Police
Department or other authorized/designated personnel during regular business
hours. From time to time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct
compliance checks by persons over the age of 15 years, but less than 21 years,
to enter the licensed premises to attempt to purchase licensed products. Prior
written consent from a parent or guardian is required for any person under the
age of 18 who participates in a compliance check. Persons used for the purpose
of compliance checks shall be supervised by the City Police Department
designated law enforcement officers, or other designated city personnel.
Persons used for compliance checks shall not be guilty of unlawful possession
of licensed products when those items are obtained as a part of the compliance
check. No persons used in compliance checks shall attempt to use a false
identification misrepresenting the person’s age, and all persons lawfully
engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about the person’s age
asked by the licensee, or his or her employee, and shall produce any
identification, if any exists, for which he or she is asked. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by state or federal laws
for educational, research, or training purposes, or required for the
enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 113.10 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell, or otherwise provide, any licensed product to any person under age 21.
   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person under 21 to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product,
tobacco-related device, electronic cigarettes, electronic delivery device, or
nicotine or lobelia delivery device. This division (B) shall not apply to
minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
under 21 to smoke, chew, sniff, or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product,
tobacco-related device, or electronic delivery device.
   (D)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person under 21 to purchase, or attempt to purchase, or otherwise obtain, any
tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-related device, or electronic delivery
device, and it shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to purchase,
or otherwise obtain, those items on behalf of a minor. It shall further be a
violation for any person to coerce, or attempt to coerce, a minor to illegally
purchase, or otherwise obtain or use, any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-
related device, or electronic delivery device. This division (D) shall not
apply to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (E)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any person under the age of 21 to attempt to disguise his or her true age
by the use of a false form of identification, whether the identification is
that of another person, or one on which the age of the person has been modified
or tampered with to represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-3-2019; Ord. 287, passed 11-1-2022)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 EXCEPTIONS, DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of traditional tobacco
or tobacco-related devices to a person under the age 21 as part of a lawfully
recognized religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremony. It shall be an
affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter for a person to have
reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 113.12 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice. A person violating this chapter may be issued, either
personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the alleged violation, and
that informs the alleged violator of his or her right to a hearing on the
matter. The citation shall provide notice that a hearing must be requested
within ten business days of receipt, and that hearing rights shall be
terminated if a hearing is not promptly requested. The citation shall provide
information on how, and where, a hearing may be requested, including a contact
address and phone number.
   (B)   Hearings.
      (1)   Upon issuance of a citation, a person accused of violating this
chapter may request, in writing, a hearing on the matter. Hearing requests must
be made within ten business days of the issuance of the citation, and delivered
to the City Administrator, or other designated city officer. Failure to request
a hearing within ten business days of the issuance of the citation will
terminate the person’s right to a hearing.
      (2)   The City Administrator, or other designated city officer, shall set
the time and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and
place shall be mailed, or delivered, to the accused violator at least ten
business days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer, designed by the City Council,
shall serve as the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer must be an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
   (D)   Decision.
      (1)   A decision shall be issued by the Hearing Officer within ten
business days. If the Hearing Officer determines that a violation of this
chapter did occur, that decision, along with the Hearing Officer’s reasons for
finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under §
113.99, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the
city and the accused violator by in person delivery or mail, as soon as
practicable. Likewise, if the Hearing Officer finds that no violation occurred,
or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, those findings shall be
recorded, and a copy provided to the city and the acquitted accused violator by
in person delivery or mail, as soon as practicable.
      (2)   If the citation is upheld by the Hearing Officer, the city’s actual
expenses in holding the hearing, up to a maximum of $1,000, shall be paid by
the person requesting the hearing.
      (3)   The decision of the Hearing Officer is final.
   (E)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the Hearing Officer shall be
filed in the district court for the city in which the alleged violation
occurred within ten business days.
   (F)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (G)   Administrative fines and penalties. The administrative fines or other
penalties under §
113.99 may be established from time to time by the ordinance establishing fees
and charges, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Nothing in §
113.12 shall prohibit the city from seeking prosecution for persons 21 years of
age and older as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or whose
employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an administrative
fine in an amount as set by Council from time to time for a first violation of
this chapter; in an amount as set by Council from time to time for a second
offense at the same licensed premises within a 24-month period; and in an
amount as set by Council from time to time for a third or subsequent offense at
the same location within a 24-month period. In addition, after the third
offense, the license shall be suspended for not less than seven consecutive
days.
      (2)   Other individuals, other than persons 18 to 21 years, found to be
in violation of this chapter shall be charged an administrative fine of in an
amount as set by Council from time to time for a first violation of this
chapter; in an amount as set by Council from time to time for a second offense
within a 24-month period; and in an amount as set by Council from time to time
for a third or subsequent offense.
      (3)   People under the age 18 found in unlawful possession of, or who
unlawfully purchase or attempt to purchase, licensed products shall be subject
to an administrative fine of in an amount as set by Council from time to time
for a first violation of this chapter; in an amount as set by Council from time
to time for a second offense; and in an amount as set by Council from time to
time for a third or subsequent offense within a 24-month period, or may be
subject to tobacco-related education classes, diversion programs, community
services, or another penalty that the city believes will be appropriate and
effective.
      (4)   If the administrative penalties authorized to be imposed by M.S. §
461.12, as it may be amended from time to time, differ from those established
in this section, then the stronger of the penalties shall prevail.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 114: ADULT USES
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   License required
   
114.04   Application for license
   
114.05   Issuance of license
   
114.06   License fees
   
114.07   Inspections
   
114.08   Expiration, renewal of license
   
114.09   Suspension of license
   
114.10   Revocation of license
   
114.11   Hearing; license denial, suspension, revocation; appeal
   
114.12   Transfer of license
   
114.13   Responsibilities of licensee
   
114.14   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
114.15   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
114.16   Additional regulations for adult theaters and motion picture theaters
   
114.17   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
114.18   Regulations; exhibition of sexually explicit films, videos, live
entertainment
   
114.19   General restrictions for conduct with an adult use business
   
114.20   Enforcement
   
114.21   Violations
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that the nature of adult uses is that they are
recognized as having adverse secondary characteristics, particularly when they
are accessible to minors, and located near residential property or related
residential uses such as schools, day care centers, libraries, or parks.
Furthermore, the concentration of adult uses has an adverse and chilling effect
upon the use and enjoyment of adjacent areas. The nature of adult uses requires
that they not be allowed within certain zoning districts, or within minimum
distances from each other or residential uses. Special regulation of adult uses
is necessary to ensure that the adverse secondary effects not contribute to, or
enhance, criminal activity in the area of the uses, nor contribute to the
blighting or downgrading of the surrounding property, and lessening of its
value.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS or ADULT USE BUSINESS. Any business engaged in adult
uses.
   ADULT USE BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which provides
the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent or non-
transparent, to or on the body of a patron when the body is wholly or partially
nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE BOOKSTORE, VIDEO STORE, or ADULT STORE. A commercial establishment
which, as a principal business purpose, offers for sale or rental, for any form
of consideration, any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which depict or describe specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
   ADULT USE CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear semi-nude or in a state of nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which provides the
service of engaging in, or listening to, conversation, talk, or discussion
between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if the service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap business which offers
to engage customers in the service of engaging in, or listening to,
conversation, talk, or discussion, if the service is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE HEALTH/SPORTS CLUB. A health/sport club which is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel, or similar establishment, which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; and/or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT USE MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club which
provides the services of massage, if the service is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building, or portion of a building,
with a capacity for less than 50 people, used for presenting material if the
material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision to customers of figure models, who are so provided with the intent of
providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customers, and who
engage in specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed, or otherwise depicted by the customers.
   ADULT USE MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted
or invited wherein coin or slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled, or customer operated, still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT USE MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building, or portion of a building, with
a capacity of 50 or more people used for presenting material via still or
motion picture machine, projectors, or other image-producing devices to show
images to customers or guests, if the material is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT USE NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has, as a principal activity,
the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals, or devices which are
designed for sexual stimulation.
   ADULT USE SAUNA. A sauna which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room
used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or
hot air as a cleaning, relaxing, or reducing agent, if the service provided by
the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USE STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building, or portion of a
building, used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing, or reducing agent, if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by a emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USES. Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult picture
rental, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam
room/bathhouse sauna facilities, adult clubs, adult cabarets, adult
companionship establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult health
sport clubs, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult
modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body painting studios, and other
premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses, or places open to some or
all members of the public, or in which there is an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction, or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, which are capable of being seen by members of
the public. This includes bars and/or businesses where upper and/or lower
extremities are exposed, nude dancing, strip clubs, and dancing establishments
with any type of partial or full nudity.
   DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON. The dominant or
principal theme of the object referenced. For instance, when the phrase refers
to films, it may be phrased as “Which are DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN
EMPHASIS UPON the exhibition or display of specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities ”.
   ESTABLISH or ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any adult use business as a new
business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult use
business, to any adult use business;
      (3)   The addition of any adult use business to any other existing adult
use business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any adult use business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate an adult use business
has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on the
application for a license.
   NUDITY, NUDE or A STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of a human bare anus, male genitals, female
genitals, or female breast; and
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human anus, male
genitals, female genitals, or areola of the female breast.
   OPERATE or TO CAUSE TO BE OPERATED. To cause to function, or to put or keep
in a state of, doing business.
   OPERATOR. Any person on the premises of an adult use business who is
authorized to exercise operational control of the business, or who causes to
function, or who puts or keeps in operation, the business. A person may be
found to be operating, or causing to be operated, an adult use business
regardless of whether that person is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the
business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. A consistent or substantial course of
conduct, that the films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing business
of the adult use business.
   SEMI-NUDE or IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. A state of dress in which clothing
covers no more than the genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female
breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals pubic
region, buttock, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed
genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, the
use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship, and any of
the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct: anilingus, buggery,
coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, intercourse, oral copulation,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, sodomy, zooerasty,
actual or simulated;
      (2)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (3)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast;
      (4)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments, or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged
in activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering binding, or other
physical restraint of any persons;
      (5)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; and
      (6)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal, or anal
irrigation.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT. Increase in floor area occupied by the business by
more than 25% as the floor area existed on the effective date of this chapter.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which TRANSFERS THE OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 114.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No adult-oriented business shall be operated or maintained in the city
without first obtaining a license to operate issued by the city.
   (B)   A license may be issued for only one adult-oriented business located
at a fixed and certain place and/or lot. Any person, partnership, or
corporation which desires to operate more than one adult use business shall
have a separate license for each business.
   (C)   No state licensed public or private school located within the city
shall be deemed subject to any city licensing requirements or other
restrictions made in terms of this chapter when instructing pupils in sex
education as part of its standard curriculum.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 114.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, partnership, or corporation, or other legal entity
desiring to secure a license under this chapter, shall make application to the
City Administrator.
   (B)   The application for a license shall be upon a form provided by the
city.
   (C)   (1)   An application shall be considered complete if it includes the
information required in this section. The applicant shall be qualified
according to the provisions of this chapter. The application shall be
notarized. The application shall include the information called for in
divisions (C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(f) below, and, where applicable, division
(C)(1)(g) below, as follows:
         (a)   The full true name, and any other names used in the preceding
five years;
         (b)   The current business address;
         (c)   Either a set of fingerprints suitable for conducting necessary
background checks pursuant to this chapter, or the applicant’s Social Security
number, to be used for the same purpose;
         (d)   The name, business location, legal description, business mailing
address, and phone number of the proposed adult use business;
         (e)   Written proof of age, in the form of either a copy of a birth
certificate and current photo, a current driver’s license with picture, or
other picture identification document issued by a governmental agency;
         (f)   The issuing jurisdiction, and the effective dates, of any
license or permit held by the applicant relating to an adult use business, and
whether any license or permit has been denied, revoked, or suspended, and, if
so, the reason or reasons therefor; and
         (g)   The name and address of the statutory agent, or other agent,
authorized to receive service of process.
      (2)   The information provided pursuant to divisions (C)(1)(a) through
(C)(1)(g) above shall be supplemented, in writing, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the City Administrator within ten working days of a
change of circumstances which would render the information originally submitted
false or incomplete.
   (D)   The application for an adult use business license must be accompanied
by a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a
statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram
need not be professionally prepared, but must be drawn to a designated scale,
or drawn with market dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. Applicants who must comply with §
114.18 of this chapter shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of that
section.
   (E)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter, and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law by the Fire Department and Building Official.
   (F)   If a person who wishes to operate an adult use business is an
individual, the individual must sign the application for a license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate an adult use business is other
than an individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in the
business, and each officer, director, general partner, or other person who will
participate directly in decisions relating to management of the business, must
sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under §
114.05, and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted.
   (G)   A person who possesses a valid business license is not exempt from the
requirement of obtaining any required adult use business license. A person who
operates an adult use business and possesses a business license shall comply
with the requirements and provisions of this chapter, where applicable.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 114.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Temporary license. Upon the filing of a completed application for an
adult use business license, the city shall issue a temporary license to the
applicant, which temporary license shall expire upon the final decision of the
city to deny or grant the license.
   (B)   Approval of license. Within 45 days after the receipt of a completed
application, the city shall either issue a license, or issue a written notice
of intent to deny a license, to the applicant. The city shall approve the
issuance of a license unless one or more of the following is found to be true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant is delinquent in the payment to the city of taxes,
fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him or her, or imposed upon him or
her, in relation to an adult use business;
      (3)    An applicant has failed to provide information required under §
114.04(C)(1), or which is necessary for issuance of the license, or has falsely
answered a question or request for information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of
this chapter within two years immediately preceding the application. The fact
that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect;
      (5)   The premises to be used for the adult use business has not been
approved by the Fire Department and the Building Official as being in
compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      (6)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
      (7)   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of, or
is not in compliance with, this chapter;
      (8)   An applicant has been convicted of a crime:
         (a)   Involving any of the following offenses:
            1.   Prostitution, as described in M.S. § 609.321, as it may be
amended from time to time;
            2.   Solicitation, inducement of promotion of prostitution, as
described in M.S. § 609.322, as it may be amended from time to time;
            3.   Receiving profit derived from prostitution, as described in
M.S. § 609.322, subd. 1(a)(3), as it may be amended from time to time;
            4.   Other prohibited acts relating to prostitution, as described
in M.S. § 609.324, as it may be amended from time to time;
            5.   Activities classified as obscene, as described in M.S. §
617.241, as it may be amended from time to time;
            6.   Sale, dissemination, distribution, display, or exhibition of
harmful materials to minors, as described in M.S. §§ 617.293 and 617.294, as
they may be amended from time to time;
            7.   Sexual performance by a child, as described in M.S. § 617.246,
as it may be amended from time to time;
            8.   Dissemination or possession of child pornography, as described
in M.S. § 617.247, as it may be amended from time to time;
            9.   Indecent exposure, as described in M.S. § 617.23, as it may be
amended from time to time;
            10.   Criminal sexual conduct, as described in M.S. §§ 609.342,
609.343, 609.344, and 609.345, as they may be amended from time to time;
            11.   Incest, as described in M.S. § 609.365, as it may be amended
from time to time; or
            12.   Criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any
of the foregoing offenses.
         (b)   For which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction,
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of
conviction, or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction, or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses, or combination of misdemeanor offenses, occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (9)   The proposed adult use business would not, or does not, comply with
the city’s zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Conviction. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the disqualification of the applicant. For the purposes of this
section, CONVICTION:
      (1)   Means a conviction or a guilty plea; and
      (2)   Includes a conviction of any business entity for which the
applicant had, at the time of the offense leading to the conviction for a crime
designated under this section, a management responsibility or a controlling
interest.
   (D)   Time periods. An applicant who has been convicted of an offense listed
in division (B)(8)(a) above may qualify for an adult use business license only
when the time period required by division (B)(8)(b) above has elapsed.
   (E)   License information and posting. The license, if granted, shall state
the name of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date,
and the address of the adult use business. The license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at, or near, the entrance to the adult use business so that
it may be easily read at any time.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 114.06 LICENSE FEES.
   The investigation fee and annual license fee for an adult use business
license shall be set by the City Council. The investigation fee shall be in
escrow with the city. The city shall draw on the escrow account for costs
incurred in the performance of the background investigation. The city shall
maintain detailed records of the costs and furnish the applicant with a copy of
the records. Any remaining funds in the escrow account shall, at the conclusion
of the investigation, be returned to the applicant. In the event that the
application is denied, the license fee shall be refunded.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 114.07 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspection required. An applicant, operator, or licensee shall permit
law enforcement officers and any other federal, state, county, or city agency,
in the performance of any function connected with the enforcement of this
chapter normally and arguably conducted by the agencies, to inspect the
premises of an adult use business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with
the law at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (B)   Refusal. A person who operates an adult use business, or his or her
agent or employee, commits an offense if the person refuses to permit a lawful
inspection of the premises by a representative of the city at any time it is
occupied or open for business.
   (C)   Exception. The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an
adult motel which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a
permanent or temporary habitation.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 EXPIRATION, RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire at 12:00
a.m. midnight on December 31 of each year, unless sooner revoked by the City
Council, and must be renewed before operation is allowed in the following year.
   (B)   Applications for renewal must be submitted with the annual license fee
to the City Administrator no later than 60 days before the license expires.
When an application for renewal is made less than 60 days prior to the
expiration date, the license will expire and a new application for a license
will need to be applied for. If the City Administrator determines good and
sufficient cause is shown by the applicant for failure to file a timely renewal
application, the City Administrator may, if other provisions of the chapter are
complied with, submit the application.
   (C)   Renewal licenses will be issued by the City Council unless the City
Council finds cause for not renewing the license.
   (D)   No license, for which the application for renewal has been timely
made, shall be deemed to expire until the City Council has rendered its
decision not to renew a license.
   (E)   If the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 114.09 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   The city may suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days following
written notice and an opportunity to be heard if the city determines that a
licensee, or an employee of a licensee, has:
   (A)   Violated, or is not in compliance with, this chapter;
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult use business premises as
authorized by this chapter; and/or
   (C)   Knowingly permitted unlawful gambling by any person on the adult use
business premises.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 114.10 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Intent to revoke. The city shall issue a written statement of intent
to revoke an adult use business license if a cause of suspension in §
114.09 occurs, and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   Basis for revocation. The city shall issue a written statement of
intent to revoke an adult use business license if the city determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information to the city during
the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or operator has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or operator has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or operator knowingly operated the adult use business
during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
114.05(B)(8)(a), for which the time period required in §
114.05(B)(8)(b) has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in, or on, the licensed premises of a
crime listed in §
114.05(B)(8)(a), for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
persons were employees of the adult use business at the time the offenses were
committed;
      (7)   A licensee or operator has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or sexual contact to occur
in, or on, the licensed premises. The term SEXUAL CONTACT shall have the
meaning as it is defined in M. S. § 609.341, subd. 11(b), as it may be amended
from time to time. This division (B)(7) shall not apply to an adult motel,
unless the licensee knowingly allowed sexual activities to occur either in
exchange for money, or in a public place or within public view; or
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for ad valorem
taxes, local lodging tax, or other taxes or fees related to the adult use
business.
   (C)   Appeal of conviction. The fact that a conviction is being appealed
shall have no effect on the revocation of the license.
   (D)   Exception. Division (B)(7) above does not apply to adult motels as a
ground for revoking the license unless the licensee or employee knowingly
allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or sexual contact to occur in a public place or within public view.
   (E)   Provisional license. When, after the notice and hearing procedure
described in §
114.11, the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one year,
and the licensee shall not be issued an adult use business license for one year
from the date revocation became effective, provided that, if the conditions of
§
114.11(E) are met, a provisional license shall be granted pursuant to that
division. If, subsequent to revocation, the city finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective. If the license was revoked under division (B)(7) above, an applicant
may not be granted another license until the appropriate number of years
required under §
114.05(B)(8)(b) have elapsed.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 114.11 HEARING; LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   Notification. If the City Administrator determines that facts exist
for denial, suspension, or revocation of a license under this chapter, the City
Administrator shall notify the applicant or licensee (or “respondent”), in
writing, of the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, including the
grounds therefor, by personal delivery or by certified mail. The notification
shall be directed to the most current business address on file with the city.
Within five working days of receipt of the notice, the respondent may provide
to the City Administrator, in writing, a response that shall include a
statement of reasons why the license or permit should not be denied, suspended,
or revoked. Within three days of the receipt of the respondent’s written
response, the City Administrator shall notify the respondent, in writing, of
the hearing date on respondent’s denial, suspension, or revocation proceeding.
   (B)   Appeal and hearing.
      (1)   Within ten working days of the receipt of respondent’s written
response, the city shall conduct a hearing on the respondent’s appeal of the
City Administrator’s decision. The City Council may appoint a committee of the
Council, or an independent hearing officer, to hear the matter, report findings
of fact, and a recommendation for disposition to the Council. Hearings on the
appeal shall be open to the public, and the licensee or applicant shall have
the right to appear and be represented by legal counsel, and to offer evidence
on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall
make a final decision. If a response is not received by the city in the time
stated, or, if after the hearing, the city finds that grounds as specified in
this chapter exist for denial, suspension, or revocation, then the denial,
suspension, or revocation shall become final five days after the city sends, by
certified mail, written notice that the license has been denied, suspended, or
revoked. The notice shall include a statement advising the applicant or
licensee of the right to appeal the decision to a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (2)   If the City Council finds that no grounds exist for denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license, then within five days after the
hearing, the City Administrator shall withdraw the intent to deny, suspend, or
revoke the license, and shall so notify the respondent, in writing, by
certified mail of the action and shall contemporaneously issue the license.
   (C)   Judicial review. Any decision of the City Council shall be a final,
appealable order, and the applicant or licensee (“aggrieved party”) may seek
prompt judicial review of the administrative action in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   Stay of decision. The filing of an appeal stays the action and
decision of the City Council requiring, denying, suspending, or revoking a
license until 60 days after a final decision by the City Council, to provide
the aggrieved party sufficient time to appeal the City Council’s decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction. If the aggrieved party appeals the City
Council’s decision within the 60 days provided, the stay shall be extended
until a final judicial decision is rendered in the matter.
   (E)   Provisional license. Upon the filing of any court action to appeal,
challenge, restrain, or otherwise enjoin the city’s enforcement of the denial,
suspension, revocation, or licensure requirement, the city shall immediately
issue the aggrieved party a provisional license. The provisional license shall
allow the aggrieved party to continue operation of the adult use business, or
to continue employment as an adult use employee, as the case may be, and will
expire upon the court’s entry of a judgment on the aggrieved party’s action to
appeal, challenge, restrain, or otherwise enjoin the city’s enforcement.
   (F)   Additional requirements. The City Council may condition denial,
suspension, revocation, or non-renewal of a license upon appropriate terms and
conditions.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 114.12 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate an adult use business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 114.13 RESPONSIBILITIES OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the licensee
if the act or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge, or
approval of the licensee, or as a result of the licensee’s negligent failure to
supervise the employee’s conduct, and the licensee shall be punished for the
act or omission in the same manner as if the licensee committed the act or
caused the omission.
   (B)   Any act or omission of any employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the licensee
for purposes of determining whether the licensee’s license shall be revoked,
suspended, or renewed.
   (C)   No employee of an adult-oriented business shall allow any minor to
loiter around or to frequent an adult-oriented business, or to allow any minor
to view adult entertainment.
   (D)   The licensee shall maintain the premises in a clean and sanitary
manner at all times.
   (E)   The licensee shall maintain at least ten footcandles of light in the
public portions of the establishment, including aisles, at all times. However,
if a lesser level of illumination in the aisles shall be necessary to enable a
patron to view the adult entertainment in a booth, room, or cubicle adjoining
an aisle, a lesser amount of illumination may be maintained in the aisles,
provided, however, at no time shall there be less than one footcandle of
illumination in the aisles as measured from the floor.
   (F)   All business transactions shall occur within the licensed building.
   (G)   No employee shall have been convicted of any felony involving moral
turpitude, prostitution, obscenity, or other crime of a sexual nature, or
involving the use of distribution of a controlled substance as defined by state
laws, or the use or distribution of a dangerous weapon. The fact that a
conviction may be under appeal shall not affect the disqualification of the
employee.
   (H)   The operator shall ensure compliance of the establishment and his or
her employees, contractors, and patrons with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.14 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she acts as an escort, or agrees
to act as an escort, for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.15 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she appears in a state of nudity,
or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity, in an area of a
nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.16 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT THEATERS AND MOTION PICTURE THEATERS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she knowingly allows a person
under the age of 18 years to appear in a state of nudity in, or on, the
premises of an adult theater or adult motion picture theater.
   (B)   It is a defense to possible prosecution under division (A) above of
this section if the person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public
view or persons of the opposite sex.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.17 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel, as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does not have
an adult use business license, he or she rents or subrents a sleeping room to a
person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or she rents
or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above of this section, the terms RENT or
SUBRENT mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.18 REGULATIONS; EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS, VIDEOS, LIVE
ENTERTAINMENT.
   A person who operates, or causes to operate, an adult use business, other
than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of less
than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, live
entertainment, or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Upon application for an adult use business license, the application
shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan thereof,
specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations, and the location of
all overhead lighting fixtures, and designating any portion of the premises in
which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not exceed 32
square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place at which
the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared
diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be
required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north, or to some
designated street or object, and should be drawn to a designated scale, or with
marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all
areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The city may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if
the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted, and certifies
that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was
prepared.
   (B)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (C)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s station
may be made without the prior approval of the city or its designee.
   (D)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (E)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in a manner that there is an unobstructed view
of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in this
division (E) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in division (E) above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials at all times that
any patron is present in the premises, and to ensure that no patron is
permitted access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an
area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant
to division (A) above.
   (G)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one footcandle as measured at the
floor level.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of the licensee, owners, and operator, and it
shall also be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises, to
ensure that the illumination, described in division (G) above, is maintained at
all times that any patron is present in the premises.
   (I)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any time.
   (J)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between viewing
rooms or booths.
   (K)   No person shall make, or attempt to make, an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
   (L)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect the
walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes exist,
and shall cover or repair all openings or holes within 24 hours.
   (M)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to be
non-porous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
   (N)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, non-porous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board, or other porous
material shall be used within 48 inches of the floor.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.19 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS FOR CONDUCT WITH AN ADULT USE BUSINESS.
   (A)   Distance requirement for live entertainment. All performers, dancers,
and persons appearing in a semi-nude condition, or providing live entertainment
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing,
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas in the
licensed facility, or in areas adjoining the licensed facility where the
entertainment can be seen by patrons of the licensed facility, shall remain, at
all times, a minimum distance of six feet from all patrons, customers, or
spectators, and shall dance, or provide the entertainment, on a platform
intended for that purpose, which shall be raised at least two feet from the
level of the floor on which patrons or spectators are located.
   (B)   Interaction with patrons. No dancer, performer, or person while semi-
nude, or providing live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matters depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas in the licensed facility, or in areas
adjoining the licensed facility where the entertainment can be seen by patrons
of the licensed facility, shall knowingly or intentionally touch any spectator
or patron, or the clothing of any spectator or patron.
   (C)   Gratuity prohibition. No customers, spectator, or patron of a licensed
facility shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or performer in
a semi-nude condition, and no dancer or performer in a semi-nude condition
shall solicit or receive any pay or gratuity directly from any patron or
spectator.
   (D)   Hours of operation. No adult use business, except for an adult motel,
may remain open at any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
weekdays and Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   Members of the City Police Department, City Fire Department, the Fire
Marshal, or his or her designee, the Building Official, or his or her designee,
Zoning Administrator, or the City Administrator, or his or her designee, shall
have the authority to enter any adult-oriented business at all reasonable times
to inspect the premises for the purposes of enforcing this chapter and all
other applicable state laws, fire codes, and building codes.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 114.21 VIOLATIONS.
   The city may, regardless of the status of any criminal prosecution, and
alleged violation of this chapter, enforce any provision of this chapter by
mandamus, injunction, or any other appropriate civil remedy in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person having a duty under §
114.18(A) through (N) commits a misdemeanor if the person knowingly fails to
fulfill that duty.
   (B)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person to knowingly and intentionally,
in an adult use business, appear in a state of nudity, or engage in specified
sexual activities.
   (C)   Any individual, partnership, or corporation who is found to have
violated the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall also be subject to revocation of any license as provided under this
chapter.
   (D)   A person commits a misdemeanor if the person knowingly allows a person
under the age of 18 years on the premises of an adult use business.
   (E)   Each violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate offense,
and any violation continuing more than one day shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-6-2007)
CHAPTER 115: LAWFUL GAMBLING
Section
   
115.01   Purpose and adoption
   
115.02   Lawful gambling
   
115.03   Profits
   
115.04   Permit required
   
115.05   Application, reporting regulations, investigation
   
115.06   Notice, approval, disapproval of permit
   
115.07   Qualifications
   
115.08   Taxes
   
115.09   Violations
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE AND ADOPTION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the conduct of
gambling, and to ensure the integrity of operations.
   (B)   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as if set out in full.
(Ord. 207, passed 10-2-2001)
§ 115.02 LAWFUL GAMBLING.
   There shall be no gambling in the city except as authorized pursuant to the
provisions of M.S. §§ 349.11 et seq., as they may be amended from time to time,
and the rules adopted pursuant to the authority contained in the statutes.
Gambling shall be operated in accordance with the terms and conditions
specified in this chapter, other applicable city ordinances, and state and
federal laws and regulations.
(Ord. 207, passed 10-2-2001)
§ 115.03 PROFITS.
   Gross profits from lawful gambling may be expended only for lawful purposes,
or allowable expenses as provided under M.S. § 349.15, as it may be amended
from time to time, and the definition of LAWFUL PURPOSES as defined under M.S.
§ 349.12, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 207, passed 10-2-2001)
§ 115.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except for an organization licensed by the Board, no person may
conduct a gambling event which would otherwise be allowed pursuant to the
exemption set forth in M.S. § 349.166, as it may be amended from time to time,
without first securing a permit from the city.
   (B)   No person may conduct a gambling event within the city without first
securing a premises permit from the Board, with a resolution from the City
Council approving the premises permit. The owner of the premises for which a
premises permit is issued must comply with the requirements of M.S. § 349.18,
as it may be amended from time to time, in renting or using the premises for
lawful gambling.
(Ord. 207, passed 10-2-2001) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 APPLICATION, REPORTING REGULATIONS, INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling in the city
shall submit copies of all state gambling application forms and any additional
information required by the city.
   (B)   Any organization leasing premises for the conduct of lawful gambling
shall, upon request from the city, file with the city a copy of the lease
within one week after execution of the lease. The lease shall not provide for
rental payments based on a percentage of receipts or profits from lawful
gambling.
   (C)   Every gambling event in the city conducted by an organization under
state license shall be open to inspection by the city and the County Sheriff’s
Department.
   (D)   The city may inspect, at any reasonable time without notice or search
warrant, all records of a licensed organization required to be maintained by
the State Gambling Control Board.
(Ord. 207, passed 10-2-2001)
§ 115.06 NOTICE, APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Board shall notify the City Council pending application or renewal
for a premises permit or bingo hall license. The applicant shall cooperate
fully with the city in supplying all information provided for in this chapter.
The City Council shall determine whether the organization meets all the
criteria provided for in this chapter necessary to approve a premises permit.
   (B)   Each pending application for a premises permit shall be approved or
disapproved by resolution of the City Council within 60 days of receipt of a
complete application.
(Ord. 207, passed 10-2-2001)
§ 115.07 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The City Council shall not adopt a resolution approving a premises permit or
bingo hall license from any applicant:
   (A)   Which has an officer, director, or other person in a supervisory or
management position, who:
      (1)   Has ever been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Has ever been convicted of a crime involving gambling; or
      (3)   Has ever been convicted of assault, a criminal violation involving
the use of a firearm, or making terroristic threats;
   (B)   Which owes or which has an officer, director, or other person in a
supervisory or management position, who owes delinquent local, state, or
federal taxes, or is delinquent on any other city bill; or
   (C)   Is in violation of any land use or zoning ordinance including the
premises proposed to be licensed.
(Ord. 207, passed 10-2-2001)
§ 115.08 TAXES.
   (A)   The city, which has one or more licensed organizations operating
lawful gambling, imposes a local gambling tax on each organization within the
city’s jurisdiction.
   (B)   This tax will be imposed only if the amount to be received by the city
is necessary to cover the costs incurred by the city to regulate lawful
gambling.
   (C)   At no time will a tax imposed pursuant to this chapter exceed 3% of
the gross receipts of a licensed organization from all lawful gambling, unless
prizes are actually paid out by the organization.
   (D)   The city may not use money collected pursuant to this chapter for any
purpose other than for regulating lawful gambling within the city’s
jurisdiction.
   (E)   Taxes imposed pursuant to this chapter are in lieu of all other local
taxes and local investigation fees on lawful gambling.
   (F)   The city shall file an annual report, by March 15 of each year, in the
event it imposes taxes pursuant to this chapter. This report shall be in a form
prescribed by the Charitable Gambling Control Board, and shall include the
amount of revenue produced by the tax during the preceding calendar year, and
the use of the proceeds of the tax.
   (G)   Within 30 days of receiving a written request from the city, each
organization conducting lawful gambling shall submit an annual report to the
city. This annual report shall include gross receipts of that licensed
organization from all lawful gambling, a detailed summary of all prizes
actually paid out by each organization, and a detailed summary of the use of
the proceeds from all lawful gambling by each organization.
   (H)   The following organizations’ receipts from lawful gambling are not
subject to the taxes imposed by this chapter.
      (1)   Bingo may be conducted by an unlicensed organization without being
subject to taxes imposed by this chapter if it is conducted:
         (a)   In connection with a county fair, the state fair, or a civic
celebration if it is not conducted for more than 12 consecutive days in a
calendar year;
         (b)   By an organization which conducts four or fewer bingo occasions
in a calendar year; and/or
         (c)   Within a nursing home or senior citizen housing project, or by a
senior citizen organization; and the prizes for a single bingo game do not
exceed an amount as set by Council from time to time, total prizes awarded at a
single bingo occasion do not exceed an amount as set by Council from time to
time, no more than two bingo occasions are held by the organization or at the
facility each week, only members of the organization or residents of the
nursing home or housing project are allowed to play in a bingo game, no
compensation is paid for any persons who conduct the bingo, and a manager is
appointed to supervise the Gambling Control Board.
      (2)   Raffles may be conducted by an unlicensed organization without
being subject to taxes imposed by this chapter if:
         (a)   The value of all raffle prizes awarded by the organization in a
calendar year do not exceed an amount as set by Council from time to time; and/
or
         (b)   The raffles are conducted by an organization which directly, or
under contract to, the state or a political subdivision delivers health or
social services, and which is exempt from taxation under I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), if
the prizes awarded in the raffles are real or personal property donated by an
individual, firm, or other organization.
      (3)   Lawful gambling may be conducted by an unlicensed organization
without being subject to taxes imposed by this chapter if:
         (a)   The organization conducts lawful gambling on five or fewer days
in a calendar year;
         (b)   The organization does not award more than an amount as set by
Council from time to time in prizes for lawful gambling in a calendar year;
         (c)   The organization notifies the Charitable Gambling Control Board,
in writing, not less than 30 days before each lawful gambling occasion of the
date and location of the occasion, the types of lawful gambling to be
conducted, the prizes to be awarded, and receives an exemption identification
number;
         (d)   The organization notifies the city 30 days before the lawful
gambling occasion;
         (e)   The organization purchases all gambling equipment and supplies
from a licensed distributor; and/or
         (f)   The organization reports to the Charitable Gambling Control
Board, on a single page form prescribed by the board, within 30 days of each
gambling occasion, the gross receipts, prizes, expenses, and expenditures of
net profits from the occasion, and the identification of the licensed
distributor from whom all gambling equipment was purchased.
(Ord. 207, passed 10-2-2001)
§ 115.09 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any permit may be suspended or revoked for any violation of this
chapter. A permit shall not be suspended or revoked until the procedural
requirements of division (B) below have been complied with, provided that, in
cases where probable cause exists as to a chapter violation, the city may
temporarily suspend upon service of notice of the hearing provided for in
division (B) below. The temporary suspension shall not extend for more than two
weeks.
   (B)   A permit shall not be revoked until notice and an opportunity for a
hearing have first been given to the permittee. The notice shall be personally
served and shall state the chapter provision reasonably believed to be
violated. The notice shall also state that the permittee may demand a hearing
on the matter, in which case the permit will not be suspended until after the
hearing is held. If the permittee requests a hearing, one shall be held on the
matter by the Council at least one week after the date on which the request is
made. If, as a result of the hearing, the Council finds that a chapter
violation exists, then the Council may suspend or terminate the permit.
(Ord. 207, passed 10-2-2001)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor.
Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the city from enforcing this chapter by
means of any appropriate legal action.
   (B)   Additionally, a violation of this chapter shall be reported to the
Board and a recommendation shall be made for suspension, revocation, or
cancellation of an organization’s license.
(Ord. 207, passed 10-2-2001)
CHAPTER 116: FOOD WAGONS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Definition
   
116.03   License required
   
116.04   License issuance fee and display
   
116.05   Indemnification
   
116.06   Restrictions
   
116.07   Food wagon regulations
   
116.08   Forfeiture and revocation
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operations of food wagons
within the city.
(Ord. 298, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 116.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD WAGON. Any vehicle, stand or device used for the purpose of selling
food and/or drink ready to be consumed while parked on private property, public
property or right-of-way.
(Ord. 298, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 116.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a food wagon without a license from
the city when the food wagon intends to sell to the public whether it is on
public or private property. Operations meeting the definition of a food wagon
and operating under a valid food wagon license do not need a solicitor's
license under
Chapter 111 of the City Code. Exception to the license: if the food wagon is
coming to the city as part of a structured event such as Pie Day or Braham
Appreciation Day, no license is required.
(Ord. 298, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 116.04 LICENSE ISSUANCE FEE AND DISPLAY.
   Licenses, including number and dates for which issued, shall be plainly
visible on the outside of the food wagon. Licenses may be issued on an annual
or per event basis. An application on the form prescribed by the city shall be
completed by the applicant and shall be accompanied by a fee as established by
ordinance.
(Ord. 298, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 116.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   Before a food wagon license is issued by the city, the licensee shall
execute and deliver to the City Administrator, on a form prescribed by the
city, an indemnification agreement holding the city harmless for any personal
injury or property damage resulting from operation of the food wagon.
(Ord. 298, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 116.06 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Food wagons shall be allowed only at approved locations within the
city, and shall not travel from point to point around the city, unless
specifically authorized to do so by Council action. Food wagons can operate on
a private property without obtaining a license, but the property owner will
take full responsibility to ensure all licenses and insurance are up to date.
If the truck wagon is associated with an event, the event is ultimately
responsible to verify the licenses and insurance are up-to-date.
   (B)   No food wagon shall be allowed to dispense food on public property
when there is a permit issued for another food or similar wagon(s) in
association with an organized and permitted event, festival, celebration or
tournament at the same location. An organized and permitted event, festival,
celebration or tournament may have allowed multiple or similar wagons at their
permitted event as long as they provide the city with a list of authorized
vendors, sign the indemnification agreement holding the city harmless, and
signs the document verification form assuring the city they have verified all
their vendors are licensed and insured.
   (C)   A person operating a food wagon may apply for and receive an annual
license for different sites in the city at various times throughout the license
period, provided that the food wagon is only operated in one site at a time and
provided that the operator notifies the City Administrator of the location of
the food wagon in advance of each specific time that food is sold from the
wagon.
   (D)   The food wagon can operate no more than 21 days annually. It cannot
operate more than 21 days annually at any one place unless it is operated at
the site of and in conjunction with a permanent business licensed under M.S.
Chapter 157 or Chapter 28A. The food wagon will provide the dates and locations
it will operate for the 21 days when it applies for the permit. If the full 21
days are not used, the dates will be forfeited, but no money will be refunded.
(Ord. 298, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 116.07 FOOD WAGON REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No food shall be sold except directly from the food wagon.
   (B)   Radios and other audio devices shall be permitted only inside the food
wagon. No music or noise shall be permitted that is audible more than 30 feet
from the food wagon. No amplification device shall be permitted on the exterior
of any food wagon.
   (C)   Food wagon sales shall be permitted only between the hours of sunrise
and 10:00 p.m., unless the City Council gives express permission to deviate
from these hours.
   (D)   Food wagons are prohibited from using utilities from public property
and rights-of-way without obtaining permission from the property owner or
agent. Generators must be self-contained and screened from view.
   (E)   Food wagon owners shall clean up around their food wagons at the end
of each business day.
   (F)   All food wagons shall be kept in good repair and order and shall have
a neat appearance.
   (G)   There shall be no drainage of liquids allowed from the food wagon onto
public property.
   (H)   If a food wagon is not being used to dispense food (excluding days
when food dispensation is not allowed under §
116.06) the food wagon must be removed from the premises. A permit is good for
a maximum of 21 days annually.
   (I)   No license shall be issued to any food wagon until proof of a valid
certificate of liability insurance, a valid Minnesota Department of Health
permit, written approval from the property owner, and a site location plan are
provided to City Hall.
(Ord. 298, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 116.08 FORFEITURE AND REVOCATION.
   A food wagon license may be revoked or forfeited for violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or any other violation of the City Code or other
applicable laws and regulations. Food wagon licenses are not transferable.
(Ord. 298, passed 3-1-2022)
CHAPTER 117: CANNABINOID PRODUCTS
Section
   
117.01   Purpose; intent
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   License
   
117.04   Denial of license
   
117.05   Regulations adopted
   
117.06   Responsibility for sales
   
117.07   Compliance checks and testing
   
117.08   Violation; penalty
§ 117.01 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   (A)   Based on the most reliable and up-to-date scientific evidence and
guidance from the U.S. Surgeon General, the City Council finds that the rapid
introduction of legalized edible and consumable nonedible products containing
any amount of cannabinoids ("cannabinoid product"), including
tetrahydrocannabinol ("THC"), presents a significant potential threat to the
public health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the city, and can
interfere with brain development in youth and adolescents.
   (B)   Minnesota has recognized the danger cannabinoid products pose to youth
and adolescents by prohibiting the sale of cannabinoid products to those under
age 21 and regulating label design. (M.S. § 151.72, subds. 3(c) and 5a(b)). As
such, the City Council desires to prevent the sale of cannabinoid products to
underage people within the city.
   (C)   The City Council finds that in this emerging marketplace there is a
real likelihood that people may purchase mislabeled cannabinoid products. These
noncompliant products represent a unique risk to the general welfare of the
community.
   (D)   The City Council finds that a local regulatory system for cannabinoid
product sellers is appropriate and not unduly burdensome to ensure that sellers
comply with the state cannabis laws and business standards of the city to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the city's youth and all residents.
The city does not intend to inhibit the production, sale, or use of medical
cannabis products.
(Ord. 307, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions, in addition to
the definitions contained in M.S. § 151.72, shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABINOID. A chemical compound derived from the cannabis plant or
synthetically derived from the cannabis plant.
   CANNABINOID PRODUCT. Any edible cannabinoid product or nonedible cannabinoid
product authorized for sale in Minnesota Statutes.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying with the
requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by other
units of government for the purpose of enforcing appropriate federal, state, or
local laws and regulations relating to licensed products.
   HHC. The intoxicating cannabinoid hexahydrocannabinol.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The premises described in the approved license
application as set forth in this section.
   SCHOOL. A building used for the purpose of elementary or secondary
education, which meets all the requirements of compulsory education laws of the
State of Minnesota.
   THC. The cannabinoid tetrahydrocannabinol whether derived naturally or
synthetically from the cannabis plant.
   UNDERAGE PERSON. A person who is under the age of 21.
(Ord. 307, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 117.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   Required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any cannabinoid
products without first having obtained a license to do so from the city.
   (B)   Application. Any business owner or property owner desiring a retail
cannabinoid product license will make and file with the City Clerk an
application, in writing. Such application will give the name and resident
address of the applicant, if an individual; will identify the location at which
it is proposed to sell the cannabinoid products at retail, and will provide
such other information as the city may require from time to time.
   (C)   Police investigation. The City Clerk will immediately transmit a copy
of the application to the Chief of Police, who will investigate all facts and
information which he or she can reasonably find, bearing upon the question of
the applicant's fitness to receive the license and to perform the duties
imposed by this chapter. The Police Department is responsible for conducting
background checks prior to issuance of license, and the Department is
authorized to conduct such additional investigation as deemed necessary. Upon
completing the investigation, the Chief of Police will report, in writing, his
or her findings to the City Administrator or designee, together with his or her
recommendation as to the issuance of a license to the applicant. The City
Administrator or designee will submit to the City Council the report of the
Chief of Police, together with the recommendation as to the issuance of the
license to the applicant.
   (D)   Action. The City Council will consider the facts and recommendation of
the Chief of Police and of the City Administrator, together with any material
facts which it may have or obtain, and then, by motion, will approve or deny
the application.
   (E)   Term. All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire at midnight
on December 31 of each year.
   (F)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended by the City Council as provided in §
117.08.
   (G)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this chapter shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the
expiration of the current license.
   (H)   Non-transferrable. No license shall be issued for the sale of
cannabinoid products at any place other than the applicant's place of business
where retail, food, or beverage sales occur or will occur. No license shall be
issued for a moveable place of business; nor shall any single license be issued
at more than one place of business. No license shall be issued for sales from a
residential dwelling unit or accessory structure.
   (I)   Fee. No license shall be issued under this chapter until the
appropriate license fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a cannabinoid
license under this chapter shall by established by the City Council and adopted
in the city fee schedule, as may be amended from time to time.
   (J)   Exemptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to any medical cannabis product
dispensed by a registered medical cannabis manufacturer pursuant to M.S. §§
152.22 to 152.37. Medical cannabis dispensaries that sell non-medical cannabis
products which are also cannabinoid products are not exempt from this section.
      (2)   This section does not apply to cannabinoid products that contain
non-intoxicating, non-psychoactive cannabinoids as the primary cannabinoid
ingredient, such cannabidiol ("CBD") or cannabinol ("CBN").
(Ord. 307, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 117.04 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for denial. The following will be grounds for denying the
issuance or renewal of a license under this section:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years.
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted of a controlled substance-related
felony within three years of the application.
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell cannabinoid products
revoked within the past five years.
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
license application, fails to pay the license fee, or provides false or
misleading information on such license application.
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license under this section.
      (6)   The proposed licensed premises is within 300 feet of a school
measured from property line to property line.
      (7)   Pursuant to M.S. § 340A.412, subd. 14, no license shall be issued
to an exclusive liquor store.
   (B)   Rehabilitation. Persons convicted of a felony described in division
(A)(2) of this section may provide evidence of rehabilitation to the city
through the process outlined in M.S. § 364.03, subd. 3.
   (C)   Mistakenly issued. If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed, it
shall be revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the
license under this section. The city will provide the license holder with
notice of the revocation, along with information on the right to appeal.
(Ord. 307, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 117.05 REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   Sales. It shall be a violation of this section for any person to sell
or offer to sell any cannabinoid products:
      (1)   To any person under the age of 21 years.
      (2)   By means of any type of vending machine.
      (3)   By means of self-service merchandising whereby the customer does
not need to make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed
premises to receive the cannabinoid product. All such products shall be stored
behind a counter or other area not freely accessible to customers.
      (4)   That contain any chemical compound or drug that is otherwise a
controlled substance under state law.
      (5)   That contain any amount of HHC.
      (6)   By any other means or to any other person prohibited by state or
other local laws, ordinances, or other regulations.
      (7)   That fails to meet the labeling requirements as established in M.S.
§ 151.72, subds. 5, 5a, and 6.
      (8)   That fails to meet the testing requirements as established in M.S.
§ 151.72, subd. 4.
   (B)   Sampling and on-site consumption. Sampling of cannabinoid products
within an establishment selling any cannabinoid product is prohibited.
   (C)   Signage. The licensee shall display a sign in plain view to provide
public notice that selling any of these products to any person under the age of
21 is illegal and subject to penalties. The notice shall be placed in a
conspicuous location in the licensed establishment and shall be readily visible
to any person who is purchasing or attempting to purchase these products.
   (D)   Delivery. All sales of cannabinoid products must be completed on the
licensed premises. Delivery by the licensee or a third party to the consumer is
prohibited.
   (E)   Testing requirements. All manufacturer testing must comply with the
requirements set forth in M.S. § 151.72, subd. 4, as may be amended.
   (F)   Labeling requirements. All labeling must comply with the requirements
set forth in M.S. § 151.72, subds. 5, 5a, and 6, as may be amended.
   (G)   Employee background checks. Licensee shall require potential employees
who will sell or handle cannabinoid products to complete a background check
authorization form provided by the city and submit the completed form to the
Police Department. The potential employee shall not begin work prior to the
conclusion of the background check.
(Ord. 307, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 117.06 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SALES.
   Actions of their employees regarding the sale of cannabinoid products shall
be considered an action by the licensed owner.
(Ord. 307, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 117.07 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND TESTING.
   Compliance check. All retail areas on premises licensed under this section
shall be open to inspection by the city during regular business hours. From
time to time the city may conduct compliance checks by engaging minor persons
over 15 years of age but under 21 years of age to enter the licensed premises
to attempt to purchase cannabinoid products.
(Ord. 307, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 117.08 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any violation of this section shall be grounds to revoke or
suspend a license under this section. Notwithstanding misdemeanor prosecution,
the city may also seek an administrative penalty or civil injunctive relief for
violations under this section.
   (B)   Criminal penalty. It shall be a:
      (1)   Misdemeanor to sell cannabinoid products to a person under the age
of 21 years.
      (2)   Misdemeanor to furnish cannabinoid products to a person under the
age of 21 years.
      (3)   Misdemeanor to violate the provisions of M.S. § 151.72 or this
section.
   (C)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   Presumed administrative penalties for violations: The presumed
penalties for violations of a licensee are as follows:
 
                                                         Second     Third       Fourth
Type of Violation                             First      Violation  Violation   violation
                                              Violation  within 36  within 36   within 36
                                                         Months     Months      Months
1. Sale of cannabinoid products while license Revocation N/A        N/A         N/A
is under suspension.
2. Sale of cannabinoid products to an                    $1,000 and $2,000 and
underage person.                              $500       1-day      30-day      Revocation
                                                         suspension suspension
                                                                    $1,000, 1-
                                              $250 and   $500 and   day
                                              remaining  remaining  suspension,
3. Failed test of sample product or           identical  identical  and
misbranding if retailer is also manufacturer  products   products   remaining   Revocation
of product.                                   must not   must not   identical
                                              be sold    be sold    products
                                                                    must not be
                                                                    sold
4. Other violations of M.S. § 151.72 or this                       $1,000 and
section.                                      $250       $500       1-day       Revocation
                                                                    suspension
 
      (2)   The imposition of a presumptive penalty shall be communicated by a
written notice to the licensee by the City Administrator. The penalty may be
appealed through an administrative hearing process by filing a written appeal
and delivering the appeal to the City Administrator within ten days of the
notice.
      (3)   The appeal notice and hearing procedure shall follow the procedure
outlined in §
113.12, except that the City Council shall conduct the hearing and render a
decision in lieu of a hearing officer. The City Council's decision is final.
Appeals of any decision made by the City Council under this chapter shall be
filed in the district court for the city in which the alleged violation
occurred within ten business days.
      (4)   Subsequent violations. Violations occurring after the notice of
hearing has been mailed, but prior to the hearing if requested, must be treated
as a separate violation, and dealt with as a second violation. The same
procedure applies to the second, third, or fourth violations.
(Ord. 307, passed 7-11-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
130.01   Shooting of firearms
   
130.02   Curfew
   
130.03   Clandestine drug labs, chemical dump sites
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 SHOOTING OF FIREARMS.
   No person shall discharge any type of firearm, bow and arrow, crossbow,
slingshot, boomerang, or any other type of propelled device within the
corporate limits of the city without first obtaining written permission from
the City Police Department, except:
   (A)   Persons duly authorized to act as law enforcement officers, or members
of the military forces of the United States, or the state, in the performance
of their duties;
   (B)   Duly authorized persons engaged in the U.S. military and/or veteran’s
organizations may fire blank honor salutes over the graves of military
personnel, or in designated memorial areas; and
   (C)   Archery is authorized within businesses with indoor shooting
facilities.
(Ord. 244, passed 12-6-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      LOITER. To delay an activity, or to remain in a public place without
purpose.
   (B)   Minors under 18 years of age. It shall be unlawful for any minor under
the age of 18 years to loiter, or be in or upon, the public streets, highways,
parks, playgrounds, or any other unsupervised place within the city limits
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. on any day and 5:00 a.m. the following day,
unless the minor is on his or her way home by the most direct route, or be out
in violation of a court- imposed curfew.
   (C)   Defense. The restrictions of division (B) above do not apply under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or
other adult person having the minor’s lawful care, custody, or control;
      (2)   When the minor is returning home by a direct route from, and within
30 minutes after, a school, religious, or other organized activity;
      (3)   When the minor is on an emergency errand or other legitimate
business directed by the minor’s parent, guardian, or other adult person having
lawful custody of the minor; and/or
      (4)   When the minor is going directly between his or her residence and a
place of employment for the purpose of work.
   (D)   Responsibility of the parents, and the like. No parent, guardian, or
other adult having custody and control of a minor under 18 years of age shall
knowingly permit the minor to violate the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Responsibility of proprietor. No person operating, or in charge of, a
place of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment, or other place of business,
shall permit a minor to be in, or on, the place contrary to the provisions of
this section. The person shall immediately order the minor violating this
section to leave, and if the minor refuses to leave, the person shall
immediately notify the Police Department of the violation.
   (F)   Construction. This section shall not be construed as permitting the
presence at any time of any person under the age of 18 years, in any place
where his or her presence is prohibited by any other law or ordinance.
(Ord. 144, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 CLANDESTINE DRUG LABS, CHEMICAL DUMP SITES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to reduce public
exposure to health risks where law enforcement officers have determined that
hazardous chemicals from a suspected clandestine drug lab site, or associated
dump site, may exist. The City Council finds that the sites may contain
suspected chemicals and residues that place people, particularly children or
adults of childbearing age, at risk when exposed through inhabiting or visiting
the site, now and in the future.
      (2)   Interpretation and application. In their interpretation and
application, the provisions of this section shall be construed to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare. Where the conditions imposed by any
provision of this section are either more or less restrictive than comparable
provisions imposed by any other law, ordinance, statute, or regulation of any
kind, the regulations which are more restrictive, or which impose higher
standards or requirements, shall prevail. Should any court of competent
jurisdiction declare any division or subpart of this section to be invalid, the
decision shall not affect the validity of the section as a whole or any part
thereof, other than the provision declared invalid.
      (3)   Fees. Fees for the administration of this section may be
established and amended periodically by resolution of the City Council.
      (4)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         CHEMICAL DUMP SITE. Any place or area where chemicals, or other waste
materials, used in a clandestine drug lab has been located.
         CHILD. Any person less than 18 years of age.
         CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB. The unlawful manufacture, or attempt to
manufacture, of controlled substances.
         CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE. Any place or area where law enforcement has
determined that conditions associated with the operation of an unlawful
clandestine drug lab exist. A CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE may include dwellings,
accessory buildings, accessory structures, a chemical dump site, or any land.
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A drug, substance, or immediate precursor in
Schedules I through V of M.S. § 152.02, as it may be amended from time to time.
The term shall not include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages,
intoxicating liquors, or tobacco.
         HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTES. Waste generated from a clandestine drug
lab. The wastes shall be treated, stored, transported, or disposed of in a
manner consistent with the State Department of Health, the State Pollution
Control, and the County Health Department rules and regulations.
         MANUFACTURE. In places other than a pharmacy, and includes the
production, cultivation, quality control, and standardization by mechanical,
physical, chemical, or pharmaceutical means, packing, repacking, tableting,
encapsulating, labeling, relabeling, filling, or by other process, of drugs.
         OWNER. Any person, firm, or corporation who owns, in whole or in part,
the land, buildings, or structures associated with a clandestine drug lab site
or chemical dump site.
         PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE. All dwellings, accessory structures, and
buildings, or adjacent property associated with a clandestine drug lab site,
are potentially unsafe due to health hazards, and are considered PUBLIC HEALTH
NUISANCES.
   (B)   Administration.
      (1)   Law enforcement notice to other authorities. Law enforcement
authorities that identify conditions associated with a clandestine drug lab
site or chemical dump site that places neighbors, visiting public, or present
and future occupants of the dwelling at risk for exposure to harmful
contaminants, and other associated conditions, must promptly notify the
appropriate municipal, child protection, and public health authorities of the
property location, property owner, if known, and conditions found.
      (2)   Declaration of property as a public health nuisance. If law
enforcement determines the existence of a clandestine drug lab site or chemical
dump site, the property shall be declared a public health nuisance.
      (3)   Notice of public health nuisance to concerned parties. Upon
notification by law enforcement authorities, the City Building Official shall
promptly issue a declaration of public health notice for the affected property
and post a copy of the Declaration at the probable entrance to the dwelling or
property. The Building Official shall also notify the owner of the property by
mail, and notify the following parties:
         (a)   Occupants of the property;
         (b)   Neighbors at probable risk;
         (c)   The City Police Department; and
         (d)   Other state and local authorities, such as MPCA and MDH, that
are known to have public and environmental protection responsibilities that are
applicable to the situation.
      (4)   Property owner’s responsibility to act. The Building Official shall
also issue an order to abate the public health nuisance, including the
following:
         (a)   Immediately vacate those portions of the property, including
building or structure interiors that may place the occupants or visitors at
risk;
         (b)   Promptly contract with appropriate environmental testing and
cleaning firms to conduct an on-site assessment, complete cleanup and
rededication testing and follow-up testing, and determine that the property
risks are sufficiently reduced to allow safe human occupancy of the dwelling.
The property owner shall notify the city of actions taken and reach an
agreement with the city on the cleanup schedule. The city shall consider
practical limitations and the availability of contractors in approving the
schedule for cleanup; and
         (c)   Provide written documentation of the cleanup process, including
a signed, written statement that the property is safe for human occupancy, and
that the cleanup was conducted in accordance with the State Department of
Health guidelines.
      (5)   Property owner’s responsibility for costs. The property owner shall
be responsible for all costs of vacation or cleanup of the site, including
contractor’s fees and public costs, for services that were performed in
association with a clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site cleanup.
Public costs may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Posting of the site;
         (b)   Notification of affected parties;
         (c)   Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the
assessment process;
         (d)   Laboratory fees;
         (e)   Cleanup services;
         (f)   Administrative fees; and
         (g)   Other associated costs.
      (6)   Recovery of public costs.
         (a)   If, after service of notice of the declaration of public health
nuisance, the property owner fails to arrange appropriate assessment and
cleanup, the City Building Official is authorized to proceed, in a prompt
manner, to initiate the on-site assessment and cleanup.
         (b)   If the city is unable to locate the property owner within ten
days of the declaration of public health nuisance, the city is authorized to
proceed in a prompt manner to initiate the on-site assessment and cleanup.
         (c)   The city may abate the nuisance by removing the hazardous
structure or building, or otherwise, according to M.S. Chapter 463, as it may
be amended from time to time.
         (d)   If the city abates the public health nuisance, in addition to
any other legal remedy, the city shall be entitled to recover all costs, plus
an additional 25% of the costs for administration. The city may recover costs
by civil action against the person or persons who own the property, or by
assessing the costs as a special assessment against the property in the manner
as taxes and special assessments are certified and collected, pursuant to M.S.
§ 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (7)   Authority to modify or remove declaration of public health
nuisance.
         (a)   The Building Official is authorized to modify the declaration
conditions or remove the declaration of public health nuisance.
         (b)   The modifications or removal of the declaration shall only occur
after documentation from a qualified environmental or cleaning firm stating
that the health and safety risks, including those to neighbors and potential
dwelling occupants, are sufficiently abated or corrected to allow safe
occupancy of the dwelling.
(Ord. 221, passed 5-6-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person and/or business entity violating the provision of §
130.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed an amount as set by Council from time to time,
or imprisoned for a period not to exceed 90 days, or both.
   (C)   A minor violating §
130.02 may be sent or taken home, or placed into custody by a police officer.
Any person violating any provision of §
130.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed an amount as set by Council from time to time,
or a jail term not to exceed 30 days, or both.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §
130.03 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in M.S. § 609.02, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 144, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 221, passed 5-6-2003; Ord. 244, passed 12-6-
2005)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
Public Nudity; Liquor Establishments
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Purpose; liquor establishments
   
131.03   Definition
   
131.04   Activities prohibited
   
131.05   Activities prohibited; liquor establishments
Social Host Regulations
   
131.20   Purpose, findings
   
131.21   Authority
   
131.22   Definitions
   
131.23   Prohibited acts
   
131.24   Exceptions
   
131.25   Enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUDITY; LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 131.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city does hereby ordain that it is in the best interest of the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that
certain types of activities, as set forth in this subchapter, are prohibited in
public places within the city.
   (B)   Further, the city does ordain that the standards in this subchapter
reflect the prevailing community standards in the city. This subchapter is
intended to prevent harm stemming from the physical immediacy in combination of
alcohol, nudity, and sex.
   (C)   It is also the intent of the city to prevent any subliminal
endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to lead to the
possibility of various criminal conduct, such as prostitution, sexual assault,
and disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 167, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 131.02 PURPOSE; LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The city does hereby ordain that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people that certain types of
activities, as set forth in this subchapter, are prohibited upon the premises
of licensed liquor, wine, and beer establishments, so as to best protect and
assist the owners and operators, and employees, of these premises, as well as
patrons and the public in general.
(Ord. 168, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 131.03 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, the showing of the female
breasts with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or
the showing of the covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
(Ord. 167, passed 2-3-1997)
§ 131.04 ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who knowingly, or intentionally, in a
public place:
   (A)   Engages in sexual intercourse;
   (B)   Engages in deviant sexual conduct;
   (C)   Appears in a state of nudity; or
   (D)   Fondles the genitals of himself or herself, or another person.
(Ord. 167, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED; LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit, or allow, any person or
persons from being upon the licensed premises when the person does not have his
or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent
material.
(Ord. 168, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
131.99
SOCIAL HOST REGULATIONS
§ 131.20 PURPOSE, FINDINGS.
   (A)   The City Council intends to discourage underage possession and
consumption of alcohol, even if done within the confines of a private
residence, and intends to hold persons criminally responsible who host events
or gatherings where persons under 21 years of age possess or consume alcohol
regardless of whether the person hosting the event or gathering supplied the
alcohol.
   (B)   The City Council finds that:
      (1)   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where
alcohol is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of 21 are harmful to
those persons, and constitute a potential threat to public health requiring
prevention or abatement;
      (2)   Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage persons,
as well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol consumption,
such as alcohol overdose or alcohol related traffic collisions;
      (3)   Alcohol is an addictive drug which, if used irresponsibly, could
have drastic effects on those who use it, as well as those who are affected by
the actions of an irresponsible user;
      (4)   Often, events or gatherings involving underage possession and
consumption occur outside the presence of parents. However, there are times
when the parent(s) is/are present, and condone the activity, and in some
circumstances, provide the alcohol;
      (5)   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an underage person is a
crime, it is difficult to prove, and an ordinance is necessary to help further
combat underage consumption; and
      (6)   A deterrent effect will be created by holding a person criminally
responsible for hosting an event or gathering where underage possession or
consumption occurs.
(Ord. 268, passed 7-12-2011) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.21 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 145A.05, subd. 1, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 268, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 131.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIDING AND ABETTING. Adults that are participating, aiding, or allowing in
any illegal activity related to the event or gathering.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits, including dilutions
and mixtures thereof, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains one-
half of 1% or more of alcohol by volume, and which is fit for beverage purposes
either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
   EVENT or GATHERING. Any group of three or more persons who have assembled or
gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
   HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit a gathering or event.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
      (1)   As natural, adoptive parent, or stepparent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian; or
      (3)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation, or any
association of one or more individuals.
   RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied
on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling, or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
   UNDERAGE PERSON. Any individual under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 268, passed 7-12–2011)
§ 131.23 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person(s) to:
      (1)   Host, aid and abet, or allow an event, or gathering, at any
residence, premises, or on any other private or public property where alcohol
or alcoholic beverages are present;
      (2)   When the person knows, or reasonably should know, that an underage
person will or does:
         (a)   Consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; or
         (b)   Possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the intent to
consume it.
      (3)   The person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent possession or
consumption by the underage person(s).
   (B)   A person is criminally responsible for violating division (A)(2)(a)
above if the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, or conspires
with, or otherwise procures another to commit, the prohibited act.
   (C)   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be present
at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
(Ord. 268, passed 7-12-2011) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.24 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while present in the parent’s household.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to legally protected religious
observances.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit holders
who are regulated by M.S. § 340A.503, subd.1(a)(1), as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (D)   This subchapter does not apply to situations where underage persons
are lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course
and scope of employment.
(Ord. 268, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 131.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter can be enforced by any police officer or sheriff’s deputy in
the county.
(Ord. 268, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Anyone who commits public indecency, as described in §§
131.01,
131.03, and
131.04, is in violation of this subchapter and commits a misdemeanor.
      (2)   A violation of §§
131.02 and
131.05 is a misdemeanor, and is justification for revocation or suspension of
any liquor, wine, or beer license.
   (C)   Violation of §§
131.20 through
131.25 is an administrative offense punishable by an administrative fee in an
amount as set by Council from time to time, unless specifically charged and
prosecuted as a misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a fine in an amount
as set by Council from time to time, and/or up to 90 days in jail.
(Ord. 167, passed 2-3-1997; Ord. 168, passed 2-3-1997; Ord. 268, passed 7-12-
2011)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   TREES
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Building permit fees
   
150.02   Parking trailer homes
   
150.03   Numbering houses and buildings
   
150.04   Removal, relocation of buildings
   
150.05   Building Code
   
150.06   Accessibility Code
   150.07   Plumbing permit administration, plan review and inspections
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees.
      (1)   The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated construction
value at the time of application, except for fixed fees. Permit valuations
shall include total value of all construction work, including materials and
labor, for which the permit is being issued, such as gas, mechanical, plumbing
equipment, and permanent systems. The Building Official shall make the final
determination of value.
      (2)   Valuation is based on the most current valuation provided by the
ICC via the State Building Codes and Standards Division, or contract bid price.
The Building Official shall make the final determination.
      (3)   The city’s fees are in addition to any surcharges or other fees
charged by the state.
   (B)   Exceptions. Building permit valuations for the following structures
shall be based on the valuation of on-site work only, with an investigation fee
in an amount as set by Council from time to time and a surcharge in an amount
as set by Council from time to time:
      (1)   Manufactured homes containing a Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
certification;
      (2)   Prefabricated buildings with a State Building Codes and Standards
Division prefabrication label; and
      (3)   Industrialized/modular buildings with an Industrialized Building
Commission (IBC) label.
   (C)   Plan review fees. When submittal documents are required by the
Building Official, a plan review fee shall be paid. The plan review fee shall
be 65% of the building permit fee. The plan review fees are separated fees from
the permit fees, and are in addition to the permit fees. Plan review fees for
similar plans falling under Minn. Rules part 1300.0160, subpart 6, shall be 25%
of the building permit fee.
   (D)   Commercial fees. The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated
construction value at the time of application, except for fixed fees. Permit
valuations shall include total value of all construction work, including
materials and labor, for which the permit is being issued, such as gas,
mechanical, plumbing equipment, and permanent systems. The Building Official
shall make the final determination of value.
   (E)   Residential fees. The applicant for a permit shall provide an
estimated construction value at the time of application, except for fixed fees.
Permit valuations shall include total value of all construction work, including
materials and labor, for which the permit is being issued, such as gas,
mechanical, plumbing equipment, and permanent systems. The Building Official
shall make the final determination of value.
   (F)   Payment of fees. A permit shall not be issued until the fees
prescribed by the city have been paid.
   (G)   Work commencing before permit issuance. If the work of which a permit
is required by the code has been commenced without first obtaining a permit, a
special investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for the work.
An investigation fee shall be collected, and is in addition to the required
permit fee, and equal to the permit fee.
   (H)   Fee refunds.
      (1)   The Building Official may authorize refunding of any fees paid
hereunder which was erroneously paid or collected.
      (2)   The Building Official may authorize refunding of not more than 80%
of the permit fee or plan review fee paid when no work has been done under a
permit issued.
      (3)   The Building Official shall not authorize refunding of any fee
paid, except on the written application filed by the original permittee, not
later than 180 days after the date of fee payment.
   (I)   Reinspections.
      (1)   A reinspection fee may be assessed for each inspection or
reinspection when the portion of work for which inspection is called for is not
complete, or when corrections called for are not made.
      (2)   In instances where reinspection fees have been assessed, no
additional inspections of the work will be performed until the required fees
have been paid.
   (J)   Expiration.
      (1)   Every permit issued by the Building Official shall expire by
limitation, and become null and void if the building or work authorized by the
permit is not commenced within 180 days from the date of the permit, or if the
building or work authorized by the permit is suspended or abandoned at any time
after the work is commenced for a period of 180 days. Before the work can be
recommenced, a new permit shall be first obtained to do so, and the fee
therefor shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit for the work,
excluding the plan review fee, provided no changes have been made, or will be
made, in the original plans and specification for the work.
      (2)   The Building Official may grant, in writing, one or more extensions
of time for periods not more than 180 days each. The extension shall be
requested, in writing, and justifiable cause demonstrated.
   (K)   Expiration of plan review. Applications for which no permit is issued
within 180 days following the date of application shall expire by limitation,
and plans, and other data submitted for review, may thereafter be returned to
the applicant or destroyed by the Building Official. In order to renew action
on an application after expiration, the applicant shall resubmit plans and pay
a new plan review fee. In the event of a hardship, and at the discretion of the
Building Official, a new plan review fee may be waived.
(Ord. 263, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 150.02 PARKING TRAILER HOMES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Braham.
      PERSON. Includes the singular and the plural, and shall mean, and
include, any individual, corporation, co-partnership, or other association of
PERSONS.
      TRAILER HOUSE. Any structure used for sleeping, living, business, or
storage purposes, which is, or has been, equipped with wheels for the
transportation thereof from place to place, and the fact that the wheels have
been removed therefrom, or a foundation of whatever nature placed thereunder,
shall not exclude it herefrom.
   (B)   Overnight parking. It shall be unlawful for any person to park
overnight, or to permit the parking overnight, of any trailer house owned by
him or her, or under his or her control, on any street, alley, or other public
place within the city, unless the place has been set aside for the purpose, or
the use thereof has been authorized by the city.
   (C)   Parking on privately-owned tracts. No trailer house shall be parked on
any privately-owned tract of ground except as herein provided.
   (D)   Parking and temporary living; permit.
      (1)   No trailer house for the purpose of temporary living shall be
parked within the city, unless the tract of land is set aside for the purpose,
or the use has been authorized by the city for more than seven consecutive
days, unless a permit therefor has been granted as hereinafter provided in
division (D)(2) below.
      (2)   Any person desiring a permit to park a trailer for the purpose of
temporary living after the expiration of seven days shall file with the City
Administrator an application therefor in writing. The application shall state
the name and place of residence of the applicant and of the owner of the
trailer house, shall identify the trailer house and the place where the same is
to be placed, and the reasons therefor. No permit shall be granted for any
period in excess of 90 days, nor shall any succeeding permit be issued for a
period of more than 90 days, but in no event shall more than six 90-day permits
be issued successively to any one applicant. If it is found from the
application, and from further investigation as deemed appropriate, that the
parking will be lawful under the provisions of this section, the Building
Official shall grant the permit for a period not in excess of that hereinbefore
provided.
   (E)   Wastewater and liquids. All kitchen sinks, wash basins or lavatories,
showers, or bath tubs in any trailer house shall empty into a receptacle
approved by the City Health Officer, or into a sewer disposal system. No
wastewater or liquid waste of any kind shall be emptied upon the ground or upon
any paved area. No parking permit shall be issued until the requirements of
this division (E) have been met.
   (F)   Removal of wheels. The removal of the wheels shall be prohibited,
except for the purpose of repair.
   (G)   Duties of city officials. It shall be the duty of the City
Administrator to enforce the provisions of this section by proceedings under §
150.99(B), or by appropriate civil proceedings. Any police officer of the city
observing any newly parked trailer house shall report the same to the Chief of
Police, who shall report it to the City Administrator.
   (H)   Parking prior to passage. If any trailer house is parked within the
city on the effective date of this section, and shall have been continuously so
parked therein for at least 90 days prior to the date, it shall be lawful to
continue the parking at the same place only as long as it is occupied by the
present inhabitants.
(Ord. 65, passed 5-3-1965) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 NUMBERING HOUSES AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to establish a uniform
system for numbering all dwellings and structures, both residential and
business, in the city.
   (B)   Numbering required. All dwellings and structures used for residential
and/or business purposes, including schools, places of meeting, and churches,
which are included within the city boundary lines, shall be numbered at, or
near, the main entrance thereto, and shall, at all times, keep and maintain a
number in conformity with the terms of this section.
   (C)   Placement of numbers. All figures used in numbering the structure
location shall be clear, precise, accurate, and permanent. These numbers should
be the type that should either be nailed on, or screwed on, as opposed to the
stick-on type. No self-adhesive numbers shall be used. The figures and numbers
shall be not less than four inches in height and easily legible from the street
upon which the structure is situated.
   (D)   Assignment of numbers.
      (1)   Numbers shall be assigned by the Zoning Administrator to all houses
and buildings in the city.
      (2)   Whenever any house or building is to be erected hereafter, a number
shall be assigned by the Zoning Administrator at the time the building permit
is granted. No number shall be placed on a structure or change of address
without the consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 165, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   License required. No person shall remove or relocate any building
within the city limits without a valid license as a house mover issued by the
proper state, county, or administrative officials.
   (B)   Time. All removals of buildings through the city shall be done with
the greatest speed reasonably possible, but in no case shall any building in
transit be allowed to stand within the city limits for more than 24 hours.
   (C)   Exception. A building in transit may be placed on private property if
a valid building permit for placement within the city has been issued.
Additionally, nothing herein shall prevent any person from moving or relocating
any building upon his or her own lands with Building Official permission.
   (D)   Removal of buildings in violation. The Council reserves the right to
compel any person who either assisted in moving the building, or permitted the
building to be stored on private property for more than four hours, to remove
the structure out of the city if the building originated outside the city, or
to its original site within the city if there originated.
   (E)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON. Any person, partnership, or corporation.
(Ord. 110, passed 6- -1986) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted by reference. The State Building Code, as adopted by the
Commissioner of Administration pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101 through 326B.194,
as they may be amended from time to time, including all of the amendments,
rules, and regulations established, adopted, and published from time to time by
the State Commissioner of Administration, through the Building Codes and
Standards Division, is hereby adopted by reference with the exception of the
optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this section. The State
Building Code is hereby incorporated in this section as if fully set out
herein.
   (B)   Application, administration, and enforcement.
      (1)   The application, administration, and enforcement of the code shall
be in accordance with the State Building Code. The code shall be enforced
within the extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 326B.121, as it may be
amended from time to time, when so established by this section.
      (2)   The code enforcement agency of this municipality is called the City
of Braham.
      (3)   This code shall be enforced by the State Certified Building
Official designated by the city to administer the code M.S. § 326B.133, subd.
1, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Permit and fees.
      (1)   The issuance of permits, and the collection of fees, shall be as
authorized in M.S. § 16B.62, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the city in §§
33.01 through
33.12. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued
for work governed by this code in accordance with M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 220, passed 5-6-2003)
§ 150.06 ACCESSIBILITY CODE.
   (A)   Application, administration, and enforcement.
      (1)   The application, administration, and enforcement of the code shall
be in accordance with Minn. Rules part 1300.2100, and as modified by Minn.
Rules Chapter 1305.
      (2)   The code enforcement agency of this municipality is called the
Zoning Administration.
      (3)   A state-certified Building Official must be appointed by this
jurisdiction to administer the code.
   (B)   Permit and fees.
      (1)   The issuance of permits, and the collection of fees, shall be as
authorized in M.S. § 326B.121, subd. 2(f) as it may be amended from time to
time, and as provided for in Chapter 1 of the 1997 Uniform Building Code and
Minn. Rules parts 1305.0106 and 1305.0107.
      (2)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with §
150.05. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued
for work governed by this code in accordance with M.S. § 326B.106 as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 194, passed 7-6-1999)
Statutory reference:
   State certified Building Official, see M.S. § 326B.106 subd. 2
§ 150.07 PLUMBING PERMIT ADMINISTRATION, PLAN REVIEW AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All plumbing on private property within the city must comply with the
provisions of the State Building and Plumbing Code and this section.
   (B)   Plans and specifications. Prior to the installation of a system of
plumbing other than for a single-family dwelling, complete plans and
specifications, together with any additional information that the Building
Official may require, must be submitted and reviewed by the Building Official
or their designee prior to permits and installation. Construction cannot
proceed except in accordance with approved plans and specifications. Any
alteration, extension, or repair of an existing system is subject to these same
requirements, unless waived by the Building Official in accordance with Minn.
Rules, part 1300.0215.
   (C)   Exceptions. Pursuant to M.S. § 326B.43, subd. 2(n), plumbing plans and
specifications for the following projects must be submitted to the Minnesota
Department of Labor and Industry for a full plan review:
      (1)   State-licensed facilities as defined in M.S. § 326B.103, subd. 13;
      (2)   Public buildings as defined in M.S. § 326B.103, subd. 11; and
      (3)   Projects of a special nature for which department review is
requested by either the municipality or the state.
   (D)   Inspections. New plumbing systems or parts of existing plumbing
systems that have been altered, extended, or repaired shall be inspected,
tested, and approved by the Building Official or their designee in accordance
with Minn. Rules, part 1300.0215 before the plumbing system is put into use.
The Building Official shall perform the final inspection and witness the test.
The Building Official shall approve the plumbing system if the system complies
with the requirements of this code, any permit requirements, and the
requirements of any approved plans and specification. Plumbing system tests
shall comply with Minn. Rules, Chapter 4714.
   (E)   Covering of work. No building drainage or plumbing system or part
thereof shall be covered until it has been inspected, tested, and approved as
herein prescribed.
(Ord. 304, passed 5-17-2023)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
150.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be fined an
amount as set by Council from time to time, or imprisoned. Each day that the
violation is permitted to continue after any conviction shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense. The city, or any individual adversely affected
by the parking of a trailer house in violation of §
150.02, may proceed by injunction or other appropriate civil action to prevent
the continuance of the unlawful act.
   (C)   Any person failing to comply with the provisions of §
150.03 may be found guilty of a petty misdemeanor offense and, upon conviction,
shall be subject to a fine in an amount as set by Council from time to time.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate, or refuse to comply with, any of the
provisions of §
150.04 shall be subject, upon conviction thereof, to a fine in an amount as set
by Council from time to time, or imprisonment for each offense. Each day that
the violation shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 65, passed 5-3-1965; Ord. 110, passed 6- -1986; Ord. 165, passed 2-3-
1997)
CHAPTER 151: TREES
Section
Dutch Elm Disease
   
151.01   Declaration of policy
   
151.02   Forester
   
151.03   Dutch Elm Disease Program
   
151.04   Nuisances declared
   
151.05   Inspection and investigation
   
151.06   Abatement of Dutch elm disease nuisances
   
151.07   Procedure for removal of infected trees, wood
   
151.08   Spraying of elm trees
   
151.09   Transporting elm wood prohibited
   
151.10   Interference prohibited
DUTCH ELM DISEASE
§ 151.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The City Council has determined that the health of the elm trees within the
city limits is threatened by a fatal disease known as Dutch elm disease. It has
further determined that the loss of elm trees growing upon public and private
property would substantially depreciate the value of property within the city
and impair the safety, good order, general welfare, and convenience of the
public. It is declared to be the intention of the Council to control and
prevent the spread of this disease, and this subchapter is enacted for that
purpose.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-14-1974)
§ 151.02 FORESTER.
   (A)   Position created. 
      (1)   The position of Forester is hereby created within the Maintenance
Department of the city.
      (2)   The powers and duties of the City Forester, as set forth in this
section, are hereby conferred upon the Maintenance Superintendent.
   (B)   Duties of Forester. It is the duty of the Forester to coordinate,
under the direction and control of the Council, all activities of the city
relating to the control and prevention of Dutch elm disease. He or she shall
recommend to the Council the details of a program for the control of Dutch elm
disease, and perform the duties incident to the program adopted by the Council.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-14-1974)
§ 151.03 DUTCH ELM DISEASE PROGRAM.
   (A)   It is the intention of the Council of the city to conduct a program of
plant pest control pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 89.51 et seq.,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   This program is directed specifically at the control and elimination
of Dutch elm disease fungus and elm bark beetles, and is undertaken at the
recommendation of the Commissioner of Agriculture. The City Forester shall act
as coordinator between the Commissioner of Agriculture and the Council in the
conduct of this program.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-14-1974)
§ 151.04 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   (A)   The following issues are public nuisances whenever they may be found
within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree, or part thereof, infected to any
degree with the Dutch elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau, or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh) or
Hylurgopinus Rufipes (Marsh); and
      (2)   Any dead elm tree, or part thereof, including legs, branches,
stumps, firewood, or other elm material from which the bark has not been
removed and burned, or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to permit any public nuisance, as
defined in division (A) above, to remain on any premises owned or controlled by
him or her within the city. The nuisances may be abated in the manner
prescribed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-14-1974) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.05 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The Forester shall inspect all premises and places within the city as
often as practicable to determine whether any condition described in §
151.04(A) exists thereon. He or she shall investigate all reported incidents of
infestation by Dutch elm fungus or elm bark beetles.
   (B)   The Forester, or his or her duly authorized agents, may enter upon
private premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of carrying out any of
the duties assigned to him or her under this subchapter.
   (C)   The Forester shall, upon finding conditions indicating Dutch elm
infestation, immediately send appropriate specimens or samples to the
Commissioner of Agriculture for analysis, or take the steps for diagnosis as
may be recommended by the Commissioner. Except as provided in §
151.07, no action to remove infected trees or wood shall be taken until
positive diagnosis of the disease has been made.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-14-1974)
§ 151.06 ABATEMENT OF DUTCH ELM DISEASE NUISANCES.
   In abating the nuisances defined in §
151.04(A), the Forester shall cause the infected tree or wood to be sprayed,
removed, burned, or otherwise effectively treated so as to destroy and prevent,
as fully as possible, the spread of Dutch elm disease fungus and elm bark
beetles. The abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance with
current technical and expert opinions and plans, as may be designated by the
Commissioner of Agriculture.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-14-1974)
§ 151.07 PROCEDURE FOR REMOVAL OF INFECTED TREES, WOOD.
   (A)   Whenever the Forester finds, with reasonable certainty, that the
infestation defined in §
151.04(A) exists in any tree or wood in any public or private place in the
city, he or she shall proceed as follows.
      (1)   If the Forester finds that the danger of infestation of other elm
trees is not imminent because of elm dormancy, he or she shall make a written
report of his or her findings to the Council, which shall proceed by abating
the nuisance as a public improvement under M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be
amended from time to time, or abating the nuisance as provided in division (B)
below.
      (2)   If the Forester finds that danger of infestation of other elm trees
is imminent, he or she shall notify the abutting property owner, by certified
mail, that the nuisance will be abated within a specified time, not less than
five days from the date of mailing of the notice. The Forester shall
immediately report the action to the Council, and after the expiration of the
time limited by the notice he or she may abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the Forester’s report required by division (A)(1)
above, the Council shall, by resolution, order the nuisance abated. Before this
action is taken on the resolution, the Council shall publish notice of its
intention to meet to consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice
shall be mailed to affected property owners, and published once no less than
one week prior to the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the
meeting, the streets affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the
abatement, and the proposed bases of assessment, if any, of costs. At the
hearing, or adjournment thereof, the Council shall hear property owners with
reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed project. The Council
shall thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with the
modifications as it considers desirable, and provide for the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   The Forester shall keep a record of the costs of abatements done under
this section, and shall report monthly to the City Administrator (or other
appropriate officer) all work done for which assessments are to be made,
stating and certifying the description of the land, lots, parcels involved, and
the amounts chargeable to each.
   (D)   On or before September 1 of each year, the City Administrator shall
list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate lot or
parcel to which they are attributable under this subchapter. The Council may
then spread the charges, or any portion thereof, against the property involved
as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor, and
collection for the following year along with current taxes.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-14-1974)
§ 151.08 SPRAYING OF ELM TREES.
   (A)   Whenever the Forester determines that any elm tree or elm wood within
the city is infected with Dutch elm fungus, he or she may spray all nearby high
value elm trees with an effective elm bark beetle destroying concentrate.
Spraying activities authorized by this section shall be conducted in accordance
with technical and expert opinions, and plans, of the Commissioner of
Agriculture, and under the supervision of the Commissioner and his or her
agents, whenever possible.
   (B)   The notice provisions of §
151.07(B) apply to spraying operations conducted under this section.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-14-1974)
§ 151.09 TRANSPORTING ELM WOOD PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport, within the city, any bark-
bearing elm wood without having obtained a permit from the Forester. The
Forester shall grant the permit only when the purposes of this subchapter will
be served thereby.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-14-1974) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.10 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
Forester, or his or her agents, while he or she is engaged in the performance
of duties imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-14-1974) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Warning, disclaimer of liability
   
152.04   National Flood Insurance compliance
   
152.05   Adoption of Flood Insurance Rate map
   
152.06   Lands to which subchapter applies
   
152.07   Interpretation
   
152.08   Definitions
   
152.09   Annexations
   
152.10   Administration
   
152.11   Variances
   
152.12   Non-conformities
   
152.13   Violations
Flood Hazard Prevention
   
152.25   Floodplain district as overlay zoning district; compliance
   
152.26   Permitted uses in floodplain
   
152.27   Utilities, railroads, bridges in floodplain district
   
152.28   Subdivisions
   
152.29   Travel trailers, travel vehicles
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in M.S. Chapter 103F and Chapter 462, as
they may be amended from time to time, delegated the authority to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. M.S.
Chapter 103F, as it may be amended from time to time, further stipulates that
communities subject to recurrent flooding must participate, and maintain
eligibility, in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 262 passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to maintain the community’s eligibility in
the National Flood Insurance Program, and to minimize potential losses due to
periodic flooding, including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.03 WARNING, DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not imply that areas outside of the floodplain district,
or land uses permitted within the districts, will be free from flooding and
flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city,
or any officer or employee thereof, for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this subchapter or any administrative decisions lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.04 NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE COMPLIANCE.
   This chapter is adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the
National Flood Insurance Program codified as 44 C.F.R. parts 59 through 78, as
amended, so as to maintain the community’s eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.05 ADOPTION OF FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP.
   The Flood Insurance Study for the city, and the Flood Insurance Rate Map
that is a part thereof, and as developed by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, are hereby adopted by reference as the Official Floodplain Zoning
District Map, and made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH SUBCHAPTER APPLY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all lands designated as floodplain areas
within the jurisdiction of the city. Floodplain areas within the city shall
encompass all areas designated as Zone A, Zone AE, Zone AO, or Zone AH as shown
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, adopted in §
152.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   For future annexation of floodplain lands, it is a requirement of the
National Flood Insurance Program that a community legally apply the provisions
of this chapter to the annexed land on the date of annexation (see §
152.09). The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted into division (A) above
must be inclusive enough so that they encompass all of the unincorporated area
of the county that may be annexed into the city into the foreseeable future.
This may mean that a city will need to adopt the Flood Insurance Rate Map
panels in addition to those flood map panels that contain the current corporate
boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.07 INTERPRETATION.
   The boundaries of the floodplain district shall be determined by scaling
distances on the Official Floodplain Zoning District Map. Where interpretation
is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the floodplain
district, the city’s Zoning Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation based on the ground elevations that existed on the site at the
time the community adopted this chapter, or the date of the first National
Flood Insurance Program map that placed the site in the floodplain if earlier,
and the regional (100-year) flood profile, if available. If the 100-year flood
elevations are not available, the community shall require a floodplain
evaluation consistent with §
152.26(C) of this chapter to determine a 100-year flood elevation for the site;
or base its decision on available hydraulic/hydrologic, or site elevation,
survey data which demonstrates the likelihood the site is within, or outside
of, the floodplain.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.08 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel or beds proper, and the areas adjoining, a wetland,
lake, or watercourse that have been, or hereafter may be, covered by the
regional flood. FLOODPLAIN AREAS within the city shall encompass all areas
designated as Zone A, Zone AE, Zone AO, or Zone AH on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map adopted in §
152.05 of this chapter.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake, and the channel of a watercourse,
and those portions of the adjoining floodplain, that are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement).
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, dredged spoil, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, stockpile of sand or gravel,
or other material, or matter in, along, across, or projecting into any channel,
watercourse, lake bed, or regulatory floodplain which may impede, retard, or
change the direction of flow, either in itself or by catching or collecting
debris carried by floodwater.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest projection, is designed to be
self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and is designed
primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters
for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. For the purposes of this
chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall be synonymous with the term TRAVEL
TRAILER/TRAVEL VEHICLE.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD used
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation no lower than one foot
above the elevation of the regional flood, plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, travel
trailers/vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
152.29 of this chapter, and other similar items.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
start of construction of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications,
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a HISTORIC STRUCTURE, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
HISTORIC STRUCTURE. For the purpose of this chapter, HISTORIC STRUCTURE shall
be as defined in 44 C.F.R. part 59.1.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.09 ANNEXATIONS.
   The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by reference into §
152.05 may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the corporate
boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this chapter. If any of these
floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after the date of adoption of
this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of annexation into the
city.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.10 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit issued by the Building Official shall be
secured prior to the erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation
(including normal maintenance and repair), or alteration of any building or
structure, or portion thereof, prior to the use, or change of use, of a
building, structure, or land; prior to the construction of a dam, fence, or on-
site septic system; prior to the change or extension of a non-conforming use;
prior to the repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire,
tornado, or any other source; and prior to the placement of fill, excavation of
materials, or the storage of materials or equipment within the floodplain.
   (B)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a permit or processing an
application for a variance, the Zoning Administrator shall determine that the
applicant has obtained all necessary state and federal permits.
   (C)   Certification of lowest floor elevations. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a registered professional engineer,
registered architect, or registered land surveyor that the finished fill and
building elevations were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. The Building Official shall maintain a record of the elevation of the
lowest floor (including basement) for all new structures and alterations, or
additions to existing structures, in the floodplain district.
   (D)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. The Zoning Administrator
shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the Commissioner
of the Department of Natural Resources prior to the community authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has applied for a
permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to M.S. Chapter 103G, as
it may be amended from time to time, this shall suffice as adequate notice to
the Commissioner of Natural Resources. A copy of the notification shall also be
submitted to the Chicago Regional Office of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA).
   (E)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease the
100-year flood elevation. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six
months after the date the supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes
by submitting a copy of the technical or scientific data.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   A VARIANCE means a modification of a specific permitted development
standard required in an official control, including this chapter, to allow an
alternative development standard not stated as acceptable in the official
control, but only as applied to a particular property for the purpose of
alleviating a hardship, practical difficulty, or unique circumstance as
defined, and elaborated upon, in a community’s respective planning and zoning
enabling legislation, and this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment may authorize, upon appeal in specific cases,
the relief or variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary
to the public interest, and only for those circumstances such as hardship,
practical difficulties, or circumstances unique to the property under
consideration, as provided for in the respective enabling legislation for
planning and zoning for cities or counties as appropriate. In the granting of
the variance, the Board of Adjustment shall clearly identify, in writing, the
specific conditions that existed consistent with the criteria specified in this
chapter, any other zoning regulations of the community, and the criteria
specified in the respective enabling legislation which justified the granting
of the variance. The following additional variance criteria of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued by a community within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result;
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued by a community upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on, or victimization of, the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
   (C)   Variances from the provisions of this chapter may be authorized where
the Board of Adjustment has determined the variance will not be contrary to the
public interest and the spirit and intent of this chapter. No variance shall
allow, in any district, a use prohibited in that district, or permit a lower
degree of flood protection then the regulatory flood protection elevation.
Variances may be used to modify permissible methods of flood protection.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall submit, by mail, to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources a copy of the application for proposed variance sufficiently
in advance so that the Commissioner will receive at least ten days’ notice of
the hearing. A copy of all decisions granting a variance shall be forwarded, by
mail, to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of the action.
   (E)   Appeals from any decision of the Board of Adjustment may be made, and
as specified in this community’s official controls, and also state statutes.
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant for a variance
that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance in an
amount as set by Council from time to time; and
      (2)   The construction below the 100-year, or regional, flood level
increases risks to life and property. The notification shall be maintained with
a record of all variance actions. This community shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report the
variances issued in its annual or biennial report submitted to the
Administrator of the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.12 NON-CONFORMITIES.
   A structure, or the use of a structure or premises, which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the following
conditions. Historic structures, as defined in §
152.08, shall be subject to the provisions of divisions (A) through (D) below.
   (A)   No use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged, or altered in a way which
increases its non-conformity.
   (B)   A structural alteration within the inside dimensions of a non-
conforming use or structure is permissible provided it utilizes flood-resistant
materials so as not to result in increasing the flood damage potential of that
use or structure. A structural addition to a structure must be elevated to the
regulatory flood protection elevation in accordance with §
152.26(B)(5).
   (C)   The cost of all structural alterations or additions to any non-
conforming structure over the life of the structure shall not exceed 50% of the
market value of the structure unless the conditions of this section are
satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and additions must include
all costs such as construction materials, and a reasonable cost placed on all
manpower or labor. If the cost of all previous and proposed alterations and
additions exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure, then the structure
must meet the standards of §
152.26(A)(2) for new structures.
   (D)   If any non-conforming use of a structure or land, or non-conforming
structure, is substantially damaged, as defined by §
152.08, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter. The Building Official may issue a permit for reconstruction if
the use is located outside the floodway and, upon reconstruction, is adequately
elevated on fill in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   If a substantial improvement occurs, as defined in §
152.08, from any combination of a building addition to the outside dimensions
of the existing building, or a rehabilitation, reconstruction, alteration, or
other improvement to the inside dimensions of an existing non-conforming
building, then the building addition and the existing non-conforming building
must meet the requirements of §
152.26(A)(2) for new structures, depending upon whether the structure is in the
floodway or flood fringe, respectively.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.13 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A violation of the provisions of this chapter, or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance), shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   In responding to a suspected chapter violation, the Zoning
Administrator and the community may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it, including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures, or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls, and to correct chapter violations to the
extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   (C)   When a chapter violation is either discovered by, or brought to the
attention of, the Zoning Administrator, he or she shall immediately investigate
the situation and document the nature and extent of the violation of the
official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this information will be
submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural Resources and Federal
Emergency Management Agency Regional Office, along with the community’s plan of
action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls, and the nature
and extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/
or use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the community. If the construction or development is
already completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either issue an order
identifying the corrective actions that must be made within a specified time
period to bring the use or structure into compliance with the official
controls, or notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
   (E)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the Zoning
Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day that
lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter, and shall be
prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also, upon the lapse of
the specified response period, notify the landowner to restore the land to the
condition that existed prior to the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
§ 152.25 FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT AS OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The floodplain zoning district shall be considered an overlay zoning
district to all existing land use regulations of the community. The uses
permitted in §§
152.26 and
152.27 of this chapter shall be permitted only if not prohibited by any
established underlying zoning district. The requirements of this chapter shall
apply in addition to other legally established regulations of the community,
and where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   No new structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no
structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted, repaired,
maintained, or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter, and other applicable regulations, which apply to uses within the
jurisdiction of this chapter. Within the floodway and flood fringe, all uses
not listed as permitted uses in §
152.26 shall be prohibited.
      (2)   In addition, a caution is provided here that:
         (a)   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes, and
certain recreational vehicles are subject to the general provisions of this
chapter, and specifically §§
152.26(A)(2) and
152.29;
         (b)   Modifications, repair and maintenance, additions, structural
alterations, or repair after damage to existing non-conforming structures and
non-conforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the general
provisions of this chapter, and specifically §
152.12; and
         (c)   As-built elevations for elevated structures must be certified by
elevation surveys as stated in §
152.10(C).
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.26 PERMITTED USES IN FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   Permitted uses in the floodplain. The following uses of land are
permitted uses in the floodplain district:
      (1)   Any use of land which does not involve a structure, fence, an
addition to the outside dimensions to an existing structure (including a
fence), or an obstruction to flood flows such as fill, excavation, or storage
of materials or equipment;
      (2)   Any use of land involving the construction of new structures, a
fence, the placement or replacement of manufactured homes, the addition to the
outside dimensions of an existing structure (including a fence), or
obstructions such as fill or storage of materials or equipment, provided these
activities are located in the flood fringe portion of the floodplain. These
uses shall be subject to the development standards in division (B) below, and
the floodplain evaluation criteria in division (C) below for determining
floodway and flood fringe boundaries; and
      (3)   Recreational vehicles are regulated by §
152.29.
   (B)   Standards for floodplain permitted uses.
      (1)   Fill shall be properly compacted, and the slopes shall be properly
protected, by the use of riprap, vegetative cover, or other acceptable method.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for
removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of the
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
      (2)   The storage of materials and equipment standards are:
         (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in the time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited; and
         (b)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood
warning, or if placed on fill to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (3)   No use shall be permitted which will adversely affect the capacity
of the channels or floodways of any tributary to the main stream or of any
drainage ditch, or any other drainage facility or system.
      (4)   All structures, including accessory structures, additions to
existing structures, and manufactured homes, shall be constructed on fill so
that the lowest floor, including the basement floor, is at, or two feet above,
the regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation must be
no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation, and
shall extend at that elevation at least 15 feet beyond the limits of the
structure constructed thereon.
      (5)   Uses that do not have vehicular access at, or above, an elevation
not more than two feet below the regulatory flood protection elevation to lands
outside of the floodplain shall not be permitted unless granted a variance by
the Board of Adjustment. In granting a variance, the Board of Adjustment shall
specify limitations on the period of use or occupancy of the use, and only
after determining that adequate flood warning time, and local emergency
response and recovery procedures, exist.
      (6)   Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad tracks, and parking
lots, may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood protection
elevation. However, a permit for the facilities to be used by the employees or
the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood warning
system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth and velocity that when multiplying the depth (in feet)
times velocity (in feet per second), the product number exceeds four upon
occurrence of the regional flood.
      (7)   Where public utilities are not provided:
         (a)   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems; and
         (b)   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into floodwaters, and shall not be subject to
impairment or contamination during times of flooding. Any sewage treatment
system designed in accordance with the state’s current statewide standards for
on-site sewage treatment systems shall be determined to be in compliance with
this section.
      (8)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
   (C)   Floodplain elevation.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit for a use, or other
approval, within the floodplain district, the applicant shall be required to
furnish the following information as is deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator for the determination of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and whether the proposed use is within the floodway or flood fringe.
         (a)   A certificate of survey.
         (b)   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the
ground, pertinent structure, fill, or storage elevations, the size, location,
and spatial arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site,
and the location and elevations of streets.
         (c)   Photographs showing existing land uses, vegetation upstream and
downstream, and soil types.
         (d)   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel, or flow
line of the stream, for at least 500 feet in either direction from the proposed
development.
      (2)   The applicant shall be responsible to submit one copy of the above
information in division (C)(1) above to a designated engineer, or other expert
person or agency, for technical assistance in determining whether the proposed
use is in the floodway or flood fringe, and to determine the regulatory flood
protection elevation. Procedures consistent with Minn. Rules parts 6120.5000
through 6120.6200, and 44 C.F.R. part 65, shall be followed in this expert
evaluation. The designated engineer or expert is strongly encouraged to discuss
the proposed technical evaluation methodology with the respective Department of
Natural Resources’ Area Hydrologist prior to commencing the analysis. The
designated engineer or expert shall:
         (a)   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional flood;
         (b)   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood based
upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas; and
         (c)   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the regional
flood without increasing flood stages more than one-half foot. A lesser stage
increase than one-half foot shall be required if, as a result of the additional
stage increase, increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of
encroachment on both sides of the stream within the reach shall be assumed in
computing floodway boundaries.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall present the technical evaluation and
findings of the designated engineer or expert to the City Council. The City
Council must formally accept the technical evaluation and the recommended
floodway and/or flood fringe district boundary, or deny the permit application.
The City Council, prior to official action, may submit the application and all
supporting data and analyses to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the
Department of Natural Resources, or the Planning Commission for review and
comment. Once the floodway and flood fringe district boundaries have been
determined, the City Council shall refer the matter back to the Zoning
Administrator who shall process the permit application consistent with the
applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.27 UTILITIES, RAILROADS, BRIDGES IN FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   All utilities and transportation facilities, including railroad tracks,
roads, and bridges, shall be constructed in accordance with state floodplain
management standards contained in Minn. Rules parts 6120.5000 through
6120.6200.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.28 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided, and no manufactured home park shall be
developed or expanded, where the site is determined to be unsuitable by the
city’s Planning Commission for reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, water
supply, or sewage treatment facilities. The city’s Planning Commission shall
review the subdivision/development proposal to ensure that each lot or parcel
contains sufficient area outside of the floodway for fill placement for
elevating structures, sewage systems, and related activities.
   (B)   In the floodplain district, applicants for subdivision approval, or
development of a manufactured home park or manufactured home park expansion,
shall provide the information required in §
152.26(C)(1). The Zoning Administrator shall evaluate the proposed subdivision
or mobile home park development in accordance with the standards established in
§§
152.26(B) and (C), and
152.27.
   (C)   For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the floodway and flood fringe
boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation, and the required
elevation of all access roads shall be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
   (D)   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established
criteria for removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain
structures properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of the
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 152.29 TRAVEL TRAILERS, TRAVEL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria
specified in division (B) below shall be subject to the provisions of this
chapter, and as specifically spelled out in divisions (D) and (E) below.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of this chapter
if they are placed in any of the areas listed in division (C) below, and
further that they meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Have current licenses required for highway use;
      (2)   Are highway ready, meaning on wheels or the internal jacking
system, are attached to the site only by quick disconnect-type utilities
commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks, and the
recreational vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it;
and
      (3)   The recreational vehicle and associated use must be permissible in
any preexisting, underlying zoning use district.
   (C)   Areas exempted for placement of recreational vehicles:
      (1)   Individual lots or parcels of record;
      (2)   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds; and
      (3)   Existing condominium-type associations.
   (D)   Recreational vehicles exempted in division (B) above lose this
exemption when development occurs on the parcel exceeding an amount as set by
Council from time to time for a structural addition to the recreational
vehicle, or exceeding an amount as set by Council from time to time for an
accessory structure, such as a garage or storage building. The recreational
vehicle, and all additions and accessory structures, will then be treated as a
new structure, and shall be subject to the elevation requirements and the use
of land restrictions specified in §
152.26(B) of this chapter. There shall be no development or improvement on the
parcel or attachment to the recreation vehicle that hinders the removal of the
recreational vehicle to a flood-free location, should flooding occur.
   (E)   New commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds, and new
residential-type subdivisions and condominium associations, and the expansion
of any existing similar use exceeding five units or dwelling sites, shall be
subject to the following:
      (1)   Any new or replacement recreational vehicle will be allowed in the
floodway or flood fringe districts provided the recreational vehicle and its
contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood protection elevation
determined in accordance with the provisions of §
152.26(B), and proper elevated road access to the site exists in accordance
with §
152.26(C). No fill placed in the floodway to meet the requirements of this
section shall increase the flood stages of the 100-year, or regional, flood;
and
      (2)   All new or replacement recreational vehicles not meeting the
criteria of division (E)(1) above may, as an alternative, be allowed if in
accordance with the following provisions:
         (a)    The applicant must submit an emergency plan for the safe
evacuation of all vehicles and people during the 100-year flood. The plan shall
be prepared by a registered engineer or other qualified individual, shall
demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation,
and shall demonstrate that the provisions of divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above
will be met; and
         (b)   All attendant sewage and water facilities for new or replacement
recreational vehicles must be protected or constructed so as to not be impaired
or contaminated during times of flooding in accordance with §
152.26(B)(7).
(Ord. 262, passed 10-12-2009)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purpose
   
153.002   Scope
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Compliance
   
153.005   Required approvals, subdivision plats
   
153.006   Exceptions
   
153.007   Conveyance by metes and bounds
   
153.008   Subdivisions without central water, sewer
   
153.009   Exemptions
   
153.010   Subdivisions
   
153.011   Definitions
   
153.012   Required improvements
   
153.013   Variances
   
153.014   Fees
   
153.015   Enforcement
   
153.016   Disclosure by seller
Subdivision Review and Final Plats
   
153.030   Preliminary plat
   
153.031   Preliminary plat, data requirement
   
153.032   Final plat
   
153.033   Final plat, data requirement
Design Standards
   
153.045   Streets and alleys
   
153.046   Easements
   
153.047   Blocks
   
153.048   Lots
   
153.049   Soil erosion, steep slopes
   
153.050   Drainage
   
153.051   Yard, area, building regulations
Public Use Contribution, Dedication
   
153.065   Authority
   
153.066   Residential subdivisions
   
153.067   Commercial, industrial, non-residential subdivisions
   
153.068   Conditions for contribution
   
153.069   Exception for outlots
   
153.070   Special fund
   
153.071   Delayed contribution
   
153.072   Land dedication
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority contained in M.S. § 462.358, as it may be amended
from time to time, this chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To provide for the orderly, economic, and safe development of land and
urban services, and facilities;
   (B)   To promote the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of
the residents of the city; and
   (C)   To assure equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing
uniform procedures.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.002 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter relate to any division of a tract of land
into two or more parcels by platting, replatting, conveyance, registered land
survey, or other means.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.003 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations governing plats and the subdivision of land shall apply to
the area within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.004 COMPLIANCE.
   After the adoption of this chapter, no lot in a subdivision shall be sold,
no permit shall be issued to alter or erect any building upon land in a
subdivision, and no building shall be erected in a subdivision unless a
subdivision plat has been approved and recorded, and until the improvements
required by the City Council relative to the subdivision have been constructed
or arranged for as provided herein.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.005 REQUIRED APPROVALS, SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Before any plat shall have validity, it shall be approved by the City
Planning Commission and the City Council, and recorded in the County Recorder’s
office with legal description.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.006 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   When requesting a subdivision, if either of the two following
conditions exists, the Zoning Administrator shall bring the request to the
attention of the Planning Commission, whereupon it shall review the request,
and may recommend exemption of the subdivision from complying with any
procedural requirements of this chapter deemed inappropriate for adequate
review of subdivision requests.
      (1)   In any case in which compliance with §
153.007 will create an unnecessary hardship, and failure to comply does not
interfere with the intent of this chapter, provided that the conveyance does
not necessitate the dedication of a public right-of-way, and the newly created
parcel will not cause the other remaining portion of the property to be in
violation of this chapter or
Chapter 154.
      (2)   Where written justification is submitted by an applicant, which
clearly indicates that the intent of this chapter can be satisfied without
enforcing all of the procedural requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the City
Council, by resolution, may exempt the conveyance, and the conveyance may then
be filed or recorded.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.007 CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   No conveyance of one or more parcels in which the land is described by metes
and bounds, or by reference to an unapproved registered land survey made after
the effective date of this chapter, shall be filed or recorded except those
conveyances exempted under §
153.009.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.008 SUBDIVISIONS WITHOUT CENTRAL WATER, SEWER.
   In subdivisions where central water and/or sewer services are not presently
available, the Planning Commission may recommend, and the City Council may
require, that the lots in the subdivision be in accordance with the minimum lot
area and lot width requirements of
Chapter 154, and that the subdivider convey two or more lots for the purpose of
transfer of ownership, or building development of sufficient size, to safely
accommodate a private well and/or disposal system in accordance with applicable
state law and regulations, and further that any building development be
confined to one of the multiple lots conveyed. At the time as central water
and/or sewer service becomes available, and upon connection of the existing
building development to the same, the undeveloped lots may be conveyed to other
persons, and building development may be permitted on the lots pursuant to the
regulations and requirements of
Chapter 154 and this chapter then in effect.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.009 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following conveyance shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter, and shall not constitute a subdivision:
   (A)   The parcel was a separate lot of record prior to the effective date of
this chapter;
   (B)   The parcel was the subject of a written agreement to conveyance
entered into prior to the effective date of this chapter;
   (C)   The parcel is a single parcel of commercial or industrial land of not
less than five acres and having a width of not less than 300 feet, and its
conveyance does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots
or parcels, any one of which is less than five acres in area or 300 feet in
width, and does not necessitate the dedication of a public right-of-way;
   (D)   The parcel is residential or agricultural land of not less than 20
acres in area, and having a width of not less than 500 feet, and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more parcels, any one
of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in width, and does not
necessitate the dedication of a public right-of-way;
   (E)   The parcel relates to a division of a lot which is a part of a
recorded plat where the division is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to
an abutting lot, or to create two lots, and the newly created lot will not
cause the other remaining portion of the lot to be in violation of this chapter
or
Chapter 154;
   (F)   Cemetery lots; and
   (G)   Parcels resulting from court orders, or the adjustment of a lot line
by the relocation of a common boundary.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.010 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Minor subdivisions. In the case of a subdivision resulting in three or
less lots, situated in a neighborhood where conditions are well defined, the
City Council may exempt the subdivider from complying with some of the
requirements of these regulations. In the case of a request to subdivide a lot
which is a part of a recorded plat, or, where the subdivision is, to permit the
adding of a parcel of land to an abutting lot, or to create not more than three
new lots, and the newly created property lines will not cause any resulting lot
to be in violation of these regulations or
Chapter 154, the division may be approved by the City Council, after submission
of a survey by a registered land surveyor showing the original lot and the
proposed subdivision. This can be done once within a five-year time period.
   (B)   Resubdivision. In the case of a request to divide a lot which is a
part of a recorded plat where the division is to permit the adding of a parcel
of land to an abutting lot to create two lots, and the newly created property
line will not cause the other remaining portion of the lot to be in violation
with this regulation or
Chapter 154, the division may be approved by the City Council after submission
of a survey by a registered land surveyor showing the original lot and the
proposed subdivision.
   (C)   Registered land surveys. All registered land surveys shall be filed
subject to the same procedure as required for the filing of a plat for platting
purposes. The standards and requirements set forth in these regulations shall
apply to all registered land surveys. Unless the City Council shall approve, a
registered land survey shall not be used to divide a parcel of land into lots
for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development if any of the
tracts do not have the required frontage on a dedicated public street.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.011 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public vehicular way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property, and which is not intended for general traffic
circulation.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision which is entirely bounded by
streets or by a street, railroad, right-of-way, waterway, or exterior boundary
of the subdivision.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curbline and
the property line.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to a street between which line and
the nearest street right-of-way line no building may be erected or placed.
   CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the city having jurisdiction.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Prepared and adopted by the city indicating the general
locations recommended for major land uses, street, parks, public buildings, and
other public improvements.
   COUNTY BOARD. The governing body of the county.
   CROSSWALK or PEDESTRIAN WAY. A publicly-owned right-of-way which crosses a
block and furnishes pedestrian access to adjacent streets or properties.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. Specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating, among other
things, the optimum, minimum, or maximum dimensions of the items as right-of-
way, blocks, easements, and lots.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner to the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation, or persons for specific purposes as the construction of
utilities, drainage ways, and roadways.
   ENGINEER. The City or County engineer, or a duly authorized consulting
engineer.
   FINAL PLAT. The final map, drawing, or chart on which the subdividers plan
of subdivision, which will be submitted to the County Recorder’s office. The
plat must conform to these subdivision regulations and all appropriate state
laws.
   GRADE, PERCENTAGE OF. The rise or fall of a street in feet and tenths of a
foot, or each 100 feet, or horizontal distance measured at the center line of
the street.
   GROWTH MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The goals, policies, programs, ordinances, and
regulations used to guide the city’s growth and development.
   LOT. The smallest unit of a subdivision individually numbered or designated
on the plat for purposes of description, recording, conveyance, development,
and taxation.
   LOT (OF RECORD). A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described, as of the effective date of this subchapter, and recorded in the
County Recorder’s office, or approved by the city as a lot subsequent to the
date, and which is occupied by, or intended for occupancy by, one principle
building or principle use, together with any accessory buildings or the open
spaces as required by this chapter, and having its principle frontage on a
street, or a proposed street approved by the Council.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the street right-of-way line
and the opposite rear line of the lot measured in the general direction of the
side lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side property lines of a
lot as measured at the building line.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two parallel, or
approximately parallel, streets.
   OWNER. Person(s), partnership(s), firm(s), association(s), corporation(s),
or combination thereof, having proprietary interest in the land sought to be
subdivided.
   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Public land and open spaces dedicated or reserved for
recreational purposes.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. Public or private right-of-way across a block, or within a
block, to provide access for pedestrians, and which may be used for the
installation of utility lines.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land planned and developed as a unit
rather than an aggregate of houses or individual lots.
   PLAT. A map or drawing indicating the subdivisions or resubdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The map, drawing, or chart indicating the proposed layout
of the subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission and the Council
for their consideration as to its compliance with the growth management goals,
policies, and these regulations, along with required supporting data.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving
the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land dedicated and publicly-owned for use as a street, alley,
or crosswalk.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a STREET, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, or boulevard.
   STREET WIDTH. The street right-of-way width, measured at right angles to the
center line of the street.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A feeder street which provides connection primarily
between arterial streets, or arterial streets and minor streets. COLLECTOR
STREETS include the principal entrance streets of a residential development and
the principal streets for circulation within the development.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A comparatively short minor street having one end open
to traffic and the other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
   STREET, MAJOR OR ARTERIAL. A street of considerable continuity which is used
primarily for heavy through traffic between major traffic generation areas.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS. A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to a
highway or an arterial street, and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic.
   STREET, MINOR OR LOCAL. A street which serves primarily as access to
abutting properties, and is not intended to carry through traffic.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, trust, or legal entity having sufficient interest in the land
sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the
same under this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two or
more lots, tracts, or parcels for the purpose of transferring ownership or
building development, or if a new street is involved, any division or
development of a parcel of land. The term shall include RESUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   TANGENT. A straight line that is perpendicular to the radius of a curve
where it intersects a curve.
   VERTICAL CURVE. The surface curvature on a street center line located
between lines of different percentages of grade.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.012 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following improvements shall be complied with, and provided in
accordance with, city standards and approval, and as provided within the plat
agreement as indicated in division (B) below.
   (A)   Improvements.
      (1)   All improvements identified in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)
(e) below, and as included within the subdivision agreement, shall be installed
at the expense of the subdivider, according to standards and specifications
approved by the City Council:
         (a)   The full width of all street rights-of-way and utility
easements, as approved on the final plat, will be finished at rough grade, for
example, no more than six inches from the finished grade;
         (b)   Sanitary sewer, water, and drainage facilities, and electric,
telephone, and gas service lines shall be installed as required by the
subdivision agreement. Where city water and sewer facilities are not available
for extension into the subdivision, the Council may permit the use of
individual water and sewer systems in accordance with appropriate state and
city laws, ordinances, and regulations;
         (c)   Where required, all streets shall be curbed, guttered, and paved
as required by the subdivision agreement. The city may delay street paving if
city water, sewer, or storm sewer facilities are not available but are
anticipated in the foreseeable future. If street paving is not required, all
street rights-of-way shall be finished at final grade;
         (d)   Street signs and street lights shall be installed as required by
the subdivision agreement; and
         (e)   As may be required by the city, street trees and boulevard
sodding shall be planted, and sidewalks shall be installed.
      (2)   Where feasible, all utility service lines shall be placed
underground within easements or dedicated rights-of-way. All drainage and other
utility installations, which traverse privately-owned property, shall be
protected by proper easements and/or legal agreements.
   (B)   Developer’s agreement. Prior to the approval of the final plat by the
City Council, the owner or subdivider of the land covered by the plat shall
execute, and submit to the Council an agreement binding on his or her heirs,
personal representatives, and assigns, including:
      (1)   A provision that no private construction will be made on the plat,
or no building permit shall be filed for the construction, until all
improvements required under this subchapter have been completed in a manner
approved by the City Council;
      (2)   A listing or schedule of when, and what, improvements shall be
required, as recommended by the Planning Commission and approved by the City
Council;
      (3)   A certification by the City Administrator or City Engineer that the
improvements, agreements, and documents meet the minimum requirements of all
applicable ordinances; and
      (4)   A provision containing all conditions, if any, imposed by the City
Council upon approval of the final plat.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.013 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Request for amendments or variances, as provided within this
subchapter, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on an official
application form. The application shall be accompanied by complimentary copies
of detailed written and graphic materials fully explaining the proposed change,
development, or use. The Zoning Administrator shall refer the application,
along with all related information, to the City Planning Commission for
consideration and a report at least 15 days before the next regular meeting.
      (2)   The City Administrator, on behalf of the Planning Commission, shall
set a date for a public hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be published in
the official newspaper of the city at least ten days prior to the date of the
hearing. In the requests for variances, the notice shall also be mailed not
less than ten days to all property owners of record within 350 feet of the
property to which the request relates, and if the variance relates to land
located in a public water, the notice shall also be mailed to the Commissioner
of the Department of Natural Resources at least ten days prior to the hearings.
A copy of the notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to which
the notice was sent shall be attested to by the City Administrator and made a
part of official record. The failure to give mailed notice to individual
property owners, or defects in the notice, shall not invalidate the
proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to comply with this division (A)(2)
has been made.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall consider the request and hold a
public hearing at its next regular meeting unless the filing date falls within
15 days of the meeting, in which case the request would be placed on the agenda
and considered at the regular meeting following the next regular meeting. The
Zoning Administrator shall refer the application, along with all related
information, to the City Planning Commission for consideration. The applicant
or representative thereof shall appear before the Planning Commission in order
to answer questions concerning the proposed variance or appeal.
      (4)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors, or to retain expert testimony with the consent, and at the expense, of
the applicant concerning operational factors, the information to be declared
necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all pertinent
sections of this subchapter.
      (5)   In requests for variances, the Planning Commission may recommend a
variance from the provisions of this subchapter when, in its opinion, undue
hardship may result from strict compliance. In recommending any variance, the
Commission shall prescribe only conditions that it deems necessary to, or
desirable for, the public interest. In making its recommendations, the Planning
Commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and
the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or
work in the proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. A variance shall only be
recommended when the Planning Commission finds:
         (a)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property, that the strict application of the provisions of this subchapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
         (b)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare, or injurious to other property in the territory in which the
property is situated; and/or
         (c)   The variance is to correct inequities resulting from an extreme
physical hardship such as topography, soils, wetlands, and the like.
      (6)   Within 60 days from the date of the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall make a recommendation, and in requests for variances, shall
also make a finding of fact to the City Council. In the case that additional
information is requested pursuant to division (A)(5) above, the 60-day period
begins upon receipt of the information by the city.
      (7)   Upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission, or
until 60 days after the public hearing at which the request was considered, the
City Council shall place the report and recommendation on the agenda for the
next regular meeting. The reports and recommendations shall be entered in, and
made part of, the permanent written record of the City Council meeting.
      (8)   (a)   Upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission,
the City Council shall either:
            1.   Approve or disapprove the request as recommended by the
Planning Commission;
            2.   Approve or disapprove the recommendation of the Planning
Commission with modifications, alterations, or differing conditions. The
modifications, alterations, or differing conditions shall be in writing and
made part of the Council’s records; or
            3.   Refer the recommendation back to the Planning Commission with
future consideration. This procedure shall be followed only one time on a
singular action.
         (b)   Approval of a request shall require passage by two-thirds’ vote
of the full City Council. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant,
in writing, of the Council’s action. The variance decisions of the City Council
shall be final, subject to the judicial review.
   (B)   Lapse of variance. Whenever, within one year after granting a
variance, the work as permitted by the variance shall not have been completed,
then the variance shall become null and void unless a petition for extension of
time in which to complete the terms has been granted by the City Council. The
extension shall be requested, in writing, and filed with the Zoning
Administrator at least 30 days before the expiration of the original variance.
There shall be no charge for the filing of the petition. The request for
extension shall state facts, showing a good faith attempt to complete the work
permitted by the variance. The petition shall be presented to the Planning
Commission for a recommendation, and to the City Council for a decision, and
shall be made only one time for a singular action.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.014 FEES.
   (A)   To defray administrative costs of processing requests for amendments
and variances, a base fee shall be paid by all applicants in accordance with a
fee schedule adopted by resolution by the City Council.
   (B)   In order to defray any additional cost of processing applications
(amendment, variance, or subdivision) for developments, all applicants shall
escrow fees, determined by the city, for staff time, consulting, engineering
fees, and attorney fees for time spent exclusively in producing materials for
the applicant’s request, and all materials for the request.
   (C)   Fees shall be payable at the time applications are filed with the
city, and are not refundable unless the application is withdrawn prior to
referral to the Planning Commission, and prior to any publication required by
the application. A deposit to cover staff or consulting time and special
materials will be established, and required, by the city at the time the base
fee is paid.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 208, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 153.015 ENFORCEMENT.
   Unless approved as a final plat as provided herein, no subdivision shall be
entitled to record in the County Recorder’s office or have validity, and the
city shall not issue building permits for any structure on a lot in any
proposed subdivision. The city shall not permit any public improvements to be
installed unless the final plat is approved and recorded.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.016 DISCLOSURE BY SELLER.
   A certified copy of every ordinance, resolution, amendment, or regulation
adopted under this chapter shall be filed with the County Recorder’s office.
Copies of resolutions approving subdivision plats within the city, but
contiguous to another city, shall be filed with the governing body of the
contiguous city.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
SUBDIVISION REVIEW AND FINAL PLATS
§ 153.030 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Request for subdivision, as provided within this subchapter, shall be
filed with the Zoning Administrator on an official application form. The
application shall be accompanied by a fee as outlined in §
152.12. This fee shall not be refunded. The application shall also be
accompanied by ten copies of the preliminary plat and a listing of the property
owner, and all property record within 350 feet of the property in question. The
Zoning Administrator shall refer the application and preliminary plats to the
City Planning Commission for consideration at least ten days before the next
regular meeting.
   (B)   (1)   The City Administrator, on behalf of the Planning Commission,
shall set a date for a public hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be published
in the official newspaper of the city at least ten days prior to the date of
the hearing. The notice shall also be mailed not less than ten days to:
         (a)   All property owners of record, according to the county
assessment records, within 350 feet of the property;
         (b)   The Commissioner of the State Department of Natural Resources if
the proposed subdivision is located in part, or in total, within public water;
         (c)   The Commissioner of the State Department of Transportation and
the County Engineer if the proposed plat abuts or includes a state trunk
highway or a county state aid road, respectively; and
         (d)   All township boards of townships which a proposed subdivision
abuts.
      (2)   A copy of the notice, and a list of the individuals and/or property
owners and addresses to which the notices were sent, shall be attested to by
the City Administrator and made part of the official record. The failure to
give mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the notice,
shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to comply
with this division (B)(2) has been made.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall consider the preliminary plat and hold a
public hearing at its next regular meeting unless the filing date falls within
15 days of the meeting, in which case the preliminary plat would be placed on
the agenda and considered at the regular meeting following the next regular
meeting. The Zoning Administrator shall refer the application, along with all
related information, to the City Planning Commission for consideration. The
applicant or representative thereof shall appear before the Planning Commission
in order to answer questions concerning the preliminary plat.
   (D)   In considering the preliminary plat, the Planning Commission shall
consider the following factors:
      (1)   Consistency with the design standards and other requirements of
this subchapter;
      (2)   Consistency with the city’s Growth Management System;
      (3)   Consistency with other city ordinances;
      (4)   The physical characteristics of the site including, but not limited
to, topography, erosion, and flooding potential, and soil limitations, and
suitability for the type of development or use contemplated;
      (5)   The proposed development will not create a negative fiscal or
environmental impact upon the city;
      (6)   The need for dedication of land or fee for public use; and
      (7)   The need for an environmental review pursuant to M.S. § 116D, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning the preliminary
plat, or to retain expert testimony with the consent, and at the expense, of
the applicant concerning the information to be declared necessary to establish
compliance with all pertinent sections of this subchapter.
   (F)   Within 60 days from the date of the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall make a finding of fact, and recommend the actions or
conditions relating to the City Council. In the case that additional
information is requested from the applicant pursuant to division (E) above, the
60-day period will begin upon receipt of the information by the city.
   (G)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, or until 60 days after the public hearing at which the preliminary
plat was considered, the City Council shall place the report and recommendation
on the agenda for the next regular meeting. The reports and recommendations
shall be entered in, and made a part of, the permanent written record of the
City Council meeting.
   (H)   (1)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall either:
         (a)   Approve or disapprove the request as recommended by the Planning
Commission;
         (b)   Approve or disapprove the recommendation of the Planning
Commission with modifications, alterations, or differing conditions. The
modifications, alterations, or differing conditions shall be in writing and
made part of the Council’s records; or
         (c)   Refer the recommendation back to the Planning Commission for
future consideration. This procedure shall be followed only one time on a
singular action.
      (2)   In all cases, the preliminary plat shall be approved or disapproved
by the City Council within 120 days of the date of the preliminary plat
application, unless an extension of the review period has been agreed to by the
applicant.
   (I)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant of the Council’s
action and reasons thereof. The decision of the City Council regarding
preliminary and final plat approval is final subject to judicial review. If a
preliminary plat is disapproved, the same plat cannot be refiled for review
within six months following the date of Council disapproval.
   (J)   Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the City Council, the
subdivider shall submit the final plat to the Planning Commission within one
year after the approval, or approval of the preliminary plat shall be
considered void. Prior to the expiration of the preliminary plat approval, the
Planning Commission may extend the approval for an additional year. The
extension shall be in writing, specifically designating the expiration date.
The extension shall not be subject to an additional fee, and only one extension
may be granted per preliminary plat.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.031 PRELIMINARY PLAT, DATA REQUIREMENT.
   The owner or subdivider shall prepare and submit a preliminary plat
containing the following information.
   (A)   Identification and description.
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision, not similar to any existing
subdivision;
      (2)   Date and north point;
      (3)   Scale of plat, not less than one inch to 200 feet;
      (4)   Indication of any proposed covenants;
      (5)   Location map indicating location of proposed subdivision in
relation to the general known area;
      (6)   Names and addresses of the subdivider and surveyor making the plat,
and property owners of record within 350 feet of the proposed subdivision;
      (7)   Legal description of proposed subdivision; and
      (8)   Title opinion or title insurance policy indicating fee ownership of
land to be subdivided.
   (B)   Existing conditions and proposed design features.
      (1)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Zoning of land within, and abutting, the subdivision;
      (3)   Layout, dimensions, and acreage of proposed lots and blocks;
      (4)   Name, location, and right-of-way width of existing or proposed
streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, and pedestrian ways;
      (5)   High water mark of all lakes, rivers, streams, and wetlands;
      (6)   Location, dimensions, and purpose of existing and proposed
utilities and utility easements;
      (7)   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed public sewer and
water systems;
      (8)   Existing and proposed storm water drainage system, including
drainage easements;
      (9)   Boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land within
350 feet, identifying by name and ownership;
      (10)   Proposed zoning changes, if necessary;
      (11)   Minimum front, side, and rear yard setbacks, as required by
Chapter 154; and
      (12)   Location, dimensions, and size of areas, other than streets,
alleys, pedestrian ways, and utility easements, proposed to be dedicated or
reserved for public uses.
   (C)   Supplementary information. The following information may be required
if it is deemed necessary and appropriate by the Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Existing topography, including contour lines at two-foot intervals.
Watercourses, wetlands, rock outcrops, power transmission poles and lines, and
other significant features shall also be known;
      (2)   Soil survey, grading plan, soil erosion, and sod intent control
plan, and landscaping plan;
      (3)   Statement of proposed use of development, including type and number
of structures and units;
      (4)   Statement of adequacy of existing or proposed utilities to
accommodate or serve the proposed development;
      (5)   Statement relative to the relationship of the proposed subdivision
with existing or potential adjacent subdivisions;
      (6)   Statement of estimate costs of proposed required improvements;
      (7)   Other information deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator,
Planning Commission, or subdivider; and
      (8)   Soil borings and percolation tests.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.032 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat consisting of two mylar or linen reproducible tracings
and six copies shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and submitted to
the Planning Commission within 15 days of the Planning Commission meeting. The
Planning Commission shall review the final plat to assure consistency with the
approved preliminary plat. The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation
for approval or disapproval with conditions, and reasons thereof, to the City
Council. In case the plat is disapproved, the subdivider shall be notified, in
writing, of the reason for the disapproval, and what requirements are necessary
to meet the approval of the Commission.
   (B)   Payment of cash contribution pursuant to §
152.28 shall be made at this time.
   (C)   The final plat, together with the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, shall be submitted to the City Council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting. If accepted, the final plat shall be approved by resolution,
including acceptance of all agreements for basic improvements, public
dedication, and other requirements as indicated by the City Council. If denied,
the reasons for the refusal shall be set forth in the proceedings of the
Council, and reported to the subdivider.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to file the plat with
the appropriate county offices after final approval, pursuant to this section
and M.S. § 508.08, as it may be amended from time to time. Failure to do so
within two years of final approval shall result in the requiring of a new
preliminary plat. This new preliminary plat must be reviewed in accordance with
the procedure set out in this subchapter to ensure compliance with any new
requirements.
   (E)   A copy of all final plats located in total, or in part, within a
public water shall be submitted to the Commissioner of the State Department of
Natural Resources within ten days of final plat approval.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.033 FINAL PLAT, DATA REQUIREMENT.
   The final plat shall be prepared in accordance with provisions of state
statutes and shall include, as a minimum, the following information:
   (A)   Name of subdivision;
   (B)   Scale, north arrow, and date of plat;
   (C)   All plats shall be of either two standard sizes, measuring 20 by 30
inches, or 30 by 40 inches, from outer edge to outer edge. A border line shall
be placed one-half inch inside the outer edges of the plat on the top, bottom,
and right-hand side of the plat, and two inches inside the outer edge of the
left-hand side of the plat;
   (D)   Durable iron monuments shall be set at all angle and curve points on
the outside boundary lines of the plat, at all block corners, and at all
intermediate points on the block lines indicating changes of direction in the
lines. The outside boundary lines of the plat shall be correctly designated
showing bearings on all straight lines, angles at all angle points, and central
angle and radii length for all curves. All distances shall be shown between
monuments as measured to the nearest hundredths of a foot. If a curved line
constitutes the line of more than one lot in any block, the central angle for
that part of each lot on the curved line shall be shown. The outside boundary
lines shall close by latitude and departure with an error not to exceed one
foot in 7,500 feet;
   (E)   In any instance where a river, stream, creek, lake, or pond
constitutes a boundary line within, or of, the plat, a survey line shall be
shown with bearings or angles, and distances between all angle points and their
relationship to a water line, and all distances measured on the survey line
between lot lines shall be shown. The survey line shall be shown as a dashed
line;
   (F)   Location, dimensions, and name or number of all existing or proposed
lots, blocks, streets, highways, alleys, parks, and public lands;
   (G)   All rivers, streams, creeks, lakes, ponds, swamps, and wetlands shall
be correctly located and designated;
   (H)   Name and boundary lines, or any adjoining platted lands;
   (I)   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated;
   (J)   Name and address of developer and surveyor making the plat;
   (K)   A written instrument of dedication signed and acknowledged by the
owner of the land, including a full and accurate description of the land
platted and set forth, what part of the land is dedicated and also to whom, and
for what purpose these parts are dedicated;
   (L)   A written surveyor’s certificate certifying that the plat is a correct
representation of the survey, that all distances are correctly shown on the
plat, that all monuments have been correctly placed in the ground as shown, and
that the outside boundary lines are correctly designated on the plat. If there
are no wetlands, streets, or highways to be designated, he or she shall so
state. The certificate shall be sworn to before any officer authorized to
administer an oath; and
   (M)   A supplement to the title opinion or title insurance policy previously
provided shall be furnished with the final plat to indicate fee ownership of
the land to be subdivided and showing any liens or encumbrances.
(Ord. 119, passed 2-7-2000)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.045 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The character, extent, width, grade, and location of all streets
shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to
topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by the
streets.
      (2)   The arrangements of streets in a subdivision shall either provide
for the continuation of existing streets in surrounding areas, or conform to a
plan for the neighborhood, approved or adopted by the City Council, to meet a
particular situation where topographical, or other conditions, make continuance
of existing streets impractical.
      (3)   Residential streets or minor streets should be so arranged as to
discourage their use by through traffic.
      (4)   Where a subdivision abuts on, or contains, an existing or proposed
arterial street, marginal access streets, reverse frontage with screen
plantings, non-access reservations along arterial property lines abutting the
arterial streets, deep lots, or the other treatment as may be necessary for
protection of residential properties should be encouraged. Direct frontage and/
or access to arterial streets should be avoided.
      (5)   Street traffic should be designed to flow toward arterial and
collector streets. Streets should fit the contours of the land. Street grades,
where feasible, shall not be greater than 8%, and not less than 0.36%.
   (B)   Half streets. Dedication of half streets shall be prohibited, except
where essential to reasonable development of future subdivisions.
   (C)   Dead end streets and cul-de-sacs. Dead end streets are prohibited, but
cul-de-sacs will be permitted. Cul-de-sacs shall not be longer than 500 feet,
including a turn-around at the closed end. The turn-around shall have a minimum
outside curb radius of at least 40 feet, and a right-of-way radius of not less
than 50 feet, except for T-shaped turn-arounds where permitted.
   (D)   Street intersections. Streets should intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles, except under unusual topographic conditions. The minimum angle
of street intersection shall be 80 degrees. Street intersections shall not be
off-set less than 150 feet as measured from the center lines.
   (E)   Alleys. Alleys, where provided, shall not be less than 30 feet wide in
commercial areas, and 20 feet wide in residential areas. Dead end alleys should
be avoided, but if unavoidable, adequate turn-around areas shall be provided at
the closed end.
   (F)   Right-of-way standards. Public right-of-way widths shall be dedicated
using the following minimum standards, or those recommended by the State or
County Highway Department, when applicable (in feet):
Public Right-of-Way Right-of-Way Roadway: Gravel****
                                 Paved
Public Right-of-Way   Right-of-Way         Roadway: Gravel****
                                           Paved
Alley                 * (see Notes below)  20       20
Arterial street       100                  48       48
Collector street      66                   44       32
Cul-de-sac            66***                24***    24
Pedestrian way        10                   N/A      N/A
Private common access ** (see Notes below) **       **
Notes to table:
*   As provided in division (E) above.
**   The City Council may decide to approve private common access where
appropriate, and may require standards as deemed appropriate.
***   In addition to turn-around requirements outlined in division (C)
above.
**** Three inches of Class 5.
 
   (G)   Street alignment. The horizontal and vertical alignment minimum
requirements on all streets shall be as follows (in feet):
Street Horizontal* Vertical**
Street        Horizontal* Vertical**
Arterial      150         500
Collector     50          300
Street        Horizontal* Vertical**
Cul-de-sacs   50          100
Intersections 15***       300
Minor         50          200
Notes to table:
*   Radii of center line.
**   Minimum sight distance as measured at four feet above ground level along
the center line. For intersections, as measured as 15 feet from the edge of the
roadway.
***   Curbline radius.
 
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2007)
§ 153.046 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements having a minimum width of five feet on side lot lines that
have a common lot line for a total of ten feet. Rear and front lot lines shall
have a ten-foot easement as required for utility lines, underground mains, and
cables.
   (B)   Utility easements shall connect with easements established in joining
properties. All utility easements should be reviewed by the appropriate utility
company or corporation. Where feasible, all utilities shall be placed
underground.
   (C)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel, or stream, there shall be provided a floodage easement or drainage
right-of-way conformation substantially with the lines of the watercourse.
   (D)   Pedestrian walkway easements, with rights-of-way of not less than ten
feet in width, shall be required where deemed essential to provide
circulations, or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation, and other community facilities as shall be determined by the
Planning Commission and City Council.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 208, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 153.047 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Length. Blocks shall not be greater than 1,800 feet in length, except
if necessary due to unusual topographic or other conditions. In residential
areas, blocks longer than 800 feet shall be provided with pedestrian ways or
easements near the center of the block.
   (B)   Width. Blocks should have sufficient width to provide two tiers of
lots of minimum depth to allow sufficient area for building and adequate off-
street parking.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.048 LOTS.
   (A)   General. The lot size, width, shape, and orientation shall be
appropriate for the proposed type of development, and meet the minimum
requirements of
Chapter 154 in effect upon approval of the final plat.
   (B)   Frontage. All lots shall have frontage upon a public street, or upon
an approved private common access road.
   (C)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential purposes shall have extra
width to allow appropriate building setback from, and orientation to, both
streets, as required by
Chapter 154, in effect upon approval of the final plat.
   (D)   Lot lines. All side lot lines shall be perpendicular or radial to
street right-of-way lines.
   (E)   Double and reverse lots. Double frontage and reverse lots should be
avoided except where essential to provide separation of residential uses from
arterial streets, conflicting uses, or other adverse conditions.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.049 SOIL EROSION, STEEP SLOPES.
   (A)   Topsoil and vegetation distributed or destroyed during, or after,
construction shall be replaced or replanted to minimize soil erosion.
   (B)   No construction or grading shall be allowed on slopes greater than
20%. The subdivider does have the option of dedicating steep slopes to the city
or on officially recognized homeownership association.
   (C)   During and after construction, slopes shall be protected from erosion
by the quick establishment of vegetative cover, benches, terraces, mulches, or
other proper protection devices or practices. Stands of existing vegetation
adequate to control erosion should be preserved wherever possible.
   (D)   Any land reclamation or filling shall conform to the applicable
regulations outlined within
Chapter 154.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.050 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Plans for surface water runoff and drainage shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission and City Council prior to final plat approval.
   (B)   The subdivision should be so designed that the drainage system
utilizes, to the greatest extent possible, existing natural overland flows,
open channel, and drainage routes.
   (C)   The drainage system shall be constructed and operational during the
initial phase of construction.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.051 YARD, AREA, BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   The yard, area, and building requirements shall comply with the provisions
set forth within
Chapter 154, and all other applicable ordinances of appropriate jurisdictions.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
PUBLIC USE CONTRIBUTION, DEDICATION
§ 153.065 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, as it may be amended from time to time, the City
Council may require subdividers requesting platting or replatting of land, or a
planned unit development within the jurisdictional boundaries of this
subchapter, to contribute a percent of the final gross area of the subdivision
to be dedicated to the public for public uses as parks, playgrounds, public
open space, or storm water holding areas or ponds; or that the subdivider
contribute an equivalent amount in cash based upon the fair market value of the
undeveloped land as determined by the County Assessor at the time of final plat
approval, or any combination thereof. The form of contribution (cash, land, or
any combination) shall be determined based upon the following conditions
outlined in §§
153.066 through
153.072. The determination of the contribution shall be made during the
preliminary plat review process.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.066 RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   In residential subdivisions, the subdivider shall dedicate an amount as set
by Council from time to time per residential unit, with an amount as set by
Council from time to time dedicated for parks and an amount as set by Council
from time to time dedicated for trails, or for purposes outlined in §
153.065. The contribution shall be based upon a finding of fact, as outlined in
§
153.068. The contribution shall be paid in full at the time of the signing of
the developer’s agreement.
(Ord. 224, passed 7-8-2003)
§ 153.067 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   In non-residential subdivisions, the city may decide not to require the
subdivider to contribute land, cash, or any combination thereof. In those
instances, however, where the city deems it in the public interest to require a
contribution, the subdivider shall dedicate 5% of the undeveloped land proposed
to be subdivided for purposes outlined in §
153.065, or an equivalent amount in cash, or any combination thereof. The
contribution shall be based upon a finding of fact as outlined in §
153.068.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.068 CONDITIONS FOR CONTRIBUTION.
   It shall be deemed to be in the public interest to require land dedication,
cash contribution, or any combination thereof when the City Council, after
review and recommendation, makes one or more of the following findings of fact:
   (A)   All or part of the proposed subdivision has been designated as a park,
playground, public open space, storm sewer holding areas, or ponds on an
adopted city plan;
   (B)   The contribution is necessary in order to protect adjacent land uses
from potential conflicting land uses which could exist on the land to be
subdivided;
   (C)   The increased number of residents to reside, or be employed within,
the subdivision will increase the recreational demands upon the city;
   (D)   The contribution is necessary to provide proper surface water runoff
generated by the uses proposed within the subdivision;
   (E)   The land proposed to be subdivided contains, or borders upon, existing
unique topographical features including, but not limited to, ponds, lakes,
streams, timber stands, water holding areas, hills, steep slopes, drainage
areas, or bluffs which should be preserved to prevent foreseeable safety,
pollution, or erosion hazards, or to provide unique recreational and aesthetic
qualities, and enjoyment to the city; and/or
   (F)   The contribution is necessary to comply with or fulfill the goals,
policies, and programs of the city.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.069 EXCEPTION FOR OUTLOTS.
   In subdivisions which include outlots, the subdivider may contribute land,
cash, or any combination thereof as provided in §§
153.065 through
153.068 for the entire subdivision, including the land within the outlots, or
for only land exclusive of the outlots. When the outlots are subdivided, the
contribution requirement shall be met in accordance with the existing
regulations as applicable, unless the contributions have been previously met.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.070 SPECIAL FUND.
   All monies collected from cash contributions shall be placed in a special
fund from which only those public uses outlined in §
153.065 may be realized.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.071 DELAYED CONTRIBUTION.
   Upon petition by the subdivider, the City Council may approve a delay in the
actual contribution of the cash required in lieu of land until the time as
development occurs on the property being subdivided, provided that a proper
legal agreement is executed guaranteeing the contribution. Delayed contribution
payment shall include 8% interest per year.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.072 LAND DEDICATION.
   In cases where the subdivider is required to dedicate land area, the City
Council shall have the right to determine the geographic location and
configuration of the dedication.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Any firm, person, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of these
regulations, or who sells, leases, or offers for sale or lease, any lot, block,
or tract of land herewith regulated before all the requirements of this chapter
have been complied with shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day that the
violation is permitted to exist constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Intent and purpose
   
154.002   Relation to comprehensive municipal plan
   
154.003   Standard, minimum requirements
   
154.004   Conformity with provisions
   
154.005   Building permits
   
154.006   Conditional uses; variances
   
154.007   Uses not permitted within zoning district
   
154.008   Definitions
   
154.009   Environmental Review Program
   
154.010   Zoning map
General District Provisions
   
154.025   Establishment of districts
   
154.026   Map
   
154.027   Annexation; detachment
   
154.028   Zoning district boundaries
   
154.029   District regulations
One and Two Family Residential District (R-1)
   
154.040   Purpose
   
154.041   Permitted uses
   
154.042   Conditional uses
   
154.043   Accessory uses
   
154.044   Minimum lot size
   
154.045   Front, side, rear yard requirements
   
154.046   Foundation requirements
   
154.047   Maximum ground coverage; ground floor area
   
154.048   Maximum building heights
   
154.049   Buildable lots
Multiple Family Residential District (R-2)
   
154.060   Purpose
   
154.061   Special requirements
   
154.062   Permitted uses
   
154.063   Conditional uses
   
154.064   Accessory uses
   
154.065   Minimum lot size
   
154.066   Front, side, rear yard requirements
   
154.067   Maximum ground coverage; ground floor area
   
154.068   Maximum building heights
   
154.069   Foundations
Manufactured Home District (R-3)
   
154.080   Purpose
   
154.081   Permitted uses
   
154.082   Conditional uses
   
154.083   Accessory uses
   
154.084   District regulations
Central Business District (CBD)
   
154.095   Purpose
   
154.096   Special requirements
   
154.097   Permitted uses
   
154.098   Conditional uses
   
154.099   Accessory uses
   
154.100   Minimum lot size
   
154.101   Front, side, rear yard requirements
   
154.102   Transitional yard requirements
   
154.103   Maximum ground coverage
   
154.104   Maximum building heights
   
154.105   Building design, construction standards
General Business District (GBD)
   
154.120   Purpose
   
154.121   Special requirements
   
154.122   Permitted uses
   
154.123   Conditional uses
   
154.124   Accessory uses
   
154.125   Minimum lot size
   
154.126   Front, side, rear yard requirements
   
154.127   Transitional yard requirements
   
154.128   Maximum ground coverage
   
154.129   Maximum building heights
   
154.130   Building design, construction standards
Limited Industrial District (I-1)
   
154.145   Purpose
   
154.146   Special requirements
   
154.147   Permitted uses
   
154.148   Conditional uses
   
154.149   Accessory uses
   
154.150   Minimum lot size
   
154.151   Front, side, rear yard requirements
   
154.152   Transitional yard requirements
   
154.153   Maximum ground coverage
   
154.154   Maximum floor area ratio
   
154.155   Building design, construction standards
   
154.156   Performance standards
   
154.157   Regulations on screening
General Industrial District (I-2)
   
154.170   Purpose
   
154.171   Special requirements
   
154.172   Permitted uses
   
154.173   Conditional uses
   
154.174   Accessory uses
   
154.175   Minimum lot size
   
154.176   Front, side, rear yard requirements
   
154.177   Transitional yard requirements
   
154.178   Maximum ground coverage
   
154.179   Maximum floor area ratio
   
154.180   Building design, construction standards
   
154.181   Performance standards
   
154.182   Regulations on screening
General Business, Industrial District (GB-I)
   
154.195   Purpose
   
154.196   Special requirements
   
154.197   Permitted uses
   
154.198   Conditional uses
   
154.199   Accessory uses
   
154.200   Adult uses
   
154.201   Minimum lot size
   
154.202   Front, side, rear yard requirements
   
154.203   Transitional yard requirements
   
154.204   Maximum ground coverage
   
154.205   Maximum building heights
   
154.206   Building design, construction standards
   
154.207   Performance standards
   
154.208   Regulations on screening
Planned Unit Development District (PUD)
   
154.220   Purpose
   
154.221   Permitted, accessory, and conditional uses
   
154.222   Lot area regulations
   
154.223   Procedural requirements
Wetland Systems District (W)
   
154.235   Purpose
   
154.236   District application
   
154.237   Permitted uses
   
154.238   Development regulations
Design Specific Actions
   
154.250   Purpose
   
154.251   Dwelling unit restrictions
   
154.252   Building restrictions
   
154.253   Land reclamation
   
154.254   Fencing, screening, landscaping
   
154.255   Refuse
   
154.256   Vision clearance at corners, curb cuts, railroad crossings
   
154.257   Performance standards
   
154.258   Administrative standards
   
154.259   Lighting
   
154.260   Public water alteration
   
154.261   Design standards
Yard, Area, Building Size Regulations
   
154.275   Purpose
   
154.276   General statement
   
154.277   Yard requirements
   
154.278   Lot area requirements
   
154.279   Building size requirements
   
154.280   Accessory buildings; uses, equipment
   
154.281   Conditional uses
Off-Street Parking, Loading
   
154.295   Purpose
   
154.296   Scope of regulations
   
154.297   Calculating space
   
154.298   Site plan, criteria
   
154.299   Reduction, use of parking and loading space
   
154.300   Parking of commercial vehicles, equipment
   
154.301   Parking, storage of certain vehicles
   
154.302   Maintenance
   
154.303   Stall, aisle, driveway design
   
154.304   Number of required parking, loading spaces
   
154.305   Joint facilities
   
154.306   Off-street loading facilities
   
154.307   Central loading
Signs
   
154.320   Purpose
   
154.321   Permits required
   
154.322   Application for permit
   
154.323   Provisions applicable to all signs
   
154.324   Prohibited signs
   
154.325   Signs requiring no permit, subject to zoning limitations
   
154.326   Signs requiring permit, subject to zoning limitations
   
154.327   District regulations
   
154.328   Provisions regulating artificial light sources
   
154.329   Conforming sign removal
   
154.330   Non-conforming signs
   
154.331   Unlawful erected signs
   
154.332   Appeals
   
154.333   Examples of various signs
Non-Conforming Buildings, Structures, Uses
   
154.345   Purpose
   
154.346   Non-conformity
   
154.347   Lawfully constructed structure, building, use
   
154.348   Placing of unsafe structure, building, use
   
154.349   Moving non-conforming structure, building, use
   
154.350   Non-conforming to conforming structure, building, use
   
154.351   Changing non-conforming structure, building, use
   
154.352   Destroying non-conforming structure, building, use
   
154.353   Discontinuing non-conforming structure, building, use
   
154.354   Maintenance, alterations
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.365   Administration officer
   
154.366   Duties of Zoning Administrator
   
154.367   Duties of Building Official
   
154.368   Fees
   
154.369   Building permit required
Amendments, Conditional Use Permits
   
154.380   Amendments, initiation
   
154.381   Procedure
   
154.382   Lapse of conditional use permit
   
154.383   Performance bond
Variances and Appeals
   
154.395   Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
154.396   Finding of fact
   
154.397   Conditions for granting variances
   
154.398   Procedures
   
154.399   Lapse of variance, appeal
   
154.400   Performance bond
Wetlands District
   
154.415   Findings, intent, and incorporation by reference
   
154.416   Purpose and implementation
   
154.417   Identification and delineation of wetlands
   
154.418   General standards
   
154.419   Wetland buffer strips and setbacks
   
154.420   Encroachments allowed into required setback and buffer strip areas
   
154.421   Monumentation required
   
154.422   Buffer strip vegetation performance standards
   
154.423   Variances
   
154.424   Wetland replacement plans
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the city and its people through the establishment of minimum
regulations governing land development and use. This chapter shall divide the
city into use districts, and establish regulations in regard to location,
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of structures and
land. The regulations are established to provide adequate light, air, and
convenience of access to property; to prevent congestion in the public right-
of-way; to prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures
by regulating land, buildings, yards, and density of population; to provide for
compatibility of different land uses; to provide for administration of this
chapter; to provide for amendments; to prescribe penalties for violation of the
regulations; and to define powers and duties of the city staff, the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals, the Planning Commission, and the City Council in
relation to this chapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.002 RELATION TO COMPREHENSIVE MUNICIPAL PLAN.
   It is the policy of the city that the enforcement, amendment, and
administration of this chapter be accomplished with due consideration of the
recommendations contained in the city’s comprehensive plan as the policy for
responsibility to regulate land use and development, in accordance with the
policies herein set forth. If the comprehensive municipal plan is in conflict
with this chapter, then this chapter supersedes the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.003 STANDARD, MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Standard requirement. Where the conditions imposed by any provisions
of this chapter are either more or less restrictive than comparable conditions
imposed by other ordinance, rule, or regulation of the city, the ordinance,
rule, or regulation which imposes the more restrictive condition standard or
requirements shall prevail. In the event of any conflict between this chapter
with any private restrictions, protections, and covenants, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
   (B)   Minimum requirements. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.004 CONFORMITY WITH PROVISIONS.
   No structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
altered, and no structure or land shall be used for any purpose, nor in any
manner, which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.005 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Except as herein provided, no building, structure, or premises shall
hereafter be used or occupied, and no building permit shall be granted that
does not conform to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.006 CONDITIONAL USES; VARIANCES.
   Nothing within this chapter shall be construed so to deny any property owner
his or her right to apply for a conditional use permit or variance.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.007 USES NOT PERMITTED WITHIN ZONING DISTRICT.
   Whenever, in any zoning district, a use is neither specifically permitted
nor denied, the use shall be considered prohibited. In the case the City
Council or the Planning Commission, on their own initiative or upon request,
may conduct a study to determine if the use is acceptable, and if so what
zoning district would be most appropriate, and the determination as to
conditions and standards relating to development of the use. The City Council,
Planning Commission, or property owner shall, if appropriate, initiate an
amendment to this chapter to provide for the particular use under
consideration, or shall find that the use is not compatible for development
within the city.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A subordinate building or use which is located on
the same lot on which the main building or use is situated, and is reasonably
necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary or principle use of the
building or main use.
   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS/ADULT USE BUSINESS. Any business engaged in adult
uses.
   ADULT USES. Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult picture
rental, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam
room/bathhouse sauna facilities, adult clubs, adult cabarets, adult
companionship establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult health
sport clubs, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult
modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body painting studios, and other
premises, enterprises, establishments, business, or places open to some or all
members of the public, or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation,
display, depiction, or description of SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS which are capable of being seen by members of the public. This
includes bars and/or businesses where upper and/or lower extremities are
exposed, nude dancing, strip clubs, and dancing establishments with any type of
partial or full nudity. Activities classified as OBSCENE, as defined by M.S. §
617.241, as it may be amended from time to time, are not included.
      (1)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
opaquely covered.
      (2)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed
genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, the
use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship, and any of
the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct: anilines, buggery, coprophagy,
coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, intercourse, oral copulation, necrophilia,
pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, sodomy, and zooerasty, actual or
simulated;
         (b)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation, actual or simulated;
         (c)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast;
         (d)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering binding, or other
physical restraint of any persons;
         (e)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being;
         (f)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal, or anal
irrigation; and/or
         (g)   Excretory functions as part of, or in connection with, any of
the activities set forth in divisions (2)(a) through (2)(f) above.
   ADULT USES, ACCESSORY. The offering of retail goods for sale which are
classified as adult oriented uses on a limited scale, and which are incidental
to the primary activity and goods, and/or services offered by the
establishment. Examples of the items include the sale of adult oriented books
or magazines, or the sale and/or rental of adult use motion pictures, and the
sale of adult novelties.
   ADULT USES, PRINCIPAL. The offering of goods and/or services which are
classified as adult oriented uses as a primary or sole activity of a business
or establishment, and include, but are not limited to, the following.
      (1)   ADULT USE BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or non-transparent, to or on the body of a patron when the body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   ADULT USE BOOKSTORE, VIDEO STORE, OR ADULT STORE. A commercial
establishment which, as a principal business purpose, offers for sale or
rental, for any form of consideration, any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which depict or describe specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (3)   ADULT USE CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features:
         (a)   Persons who appear semi-nude or in a state of nudity;
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   ADULT USE COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which
provides the service of engaging in, or listening to, conversation, talk, or
discussion between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if the
service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (5)   ADULT USE CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap business
which offers to engage customers in the service of engaging in, or listening
to, conversation, talk, or discussion, if the service is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (6)   ADULT USE HEALTH/SPORTS CLUB. A health/sport club which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (7)   ADULT USE HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel, or similar
establishment, which:
         (a)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of
consideration; provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign
visible from the public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this
adult type of photographic reproductions;
         (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is
less than ten hours; and/or
         (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the
room for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
      (8)   ADULT USE MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health
club which provides the services of massage, if the service is distinguished,
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (9)   ADULT USE MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building, or portion of a
building, with a capacity for less than 50 people, used for presenting material
if the material is distinguished, or characterized, by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (10)   ADULT USE MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business
is the provision to customers of figure models who are so provided with the
intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the
customers, and who engage in specified sexual activities or display specified
anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted by the customers.
      (11)   ADULT USE MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited, wherein coin or slug-operated, or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or customer operated still or motion
picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices, are maintained
to show images to five, or fewer, persons per machine at any one time, and
where the images so displayed are distinguished, or characterized, by an
emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (12)   ADULT USE MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building, or portion of a
building, with a capacity of 50 or more people, used for presenting material
via still or motion picture machine, projectors, or other image-producing
devices to show images to customers or guests if the material is distinguished,
or characterized, by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
      (13)   ADULT USE NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has, as a principal
activity, the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals, or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
      (14)   ADULT USE SAUNA. A sauna which provides a steam bath, or heat
bathing room, used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation, or reducing,
utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing, or reducing agent, if the
service provided by the sauna is distinguished, or characterized, by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (15)   ADULT USE STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building, or portion of
a building, used for providing a steam bath, or heat bathing room, used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing, or reducing agent if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished, or characterized, by a emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which provides secondary access to an abutting
property.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms which is designed for, intended for, or
occupied as a residence by a single family or an individual, and is equipped
with cooking facilities, and includes DWELLING UNIT and EFFICIENCY UNIT.
   AQUIFER RECHARGE AREAS. All land surface areas which, by nature of their
surface and/or subsurface soil characteristics, are determined to contribute to
the replenishment of subsurface water supplied.
   ARTIFICIAL LIGHT. Illumination resulting from internal or external
artificial light sources, including glare, and reflected light by-products of
ARTIFICIAL LIGHT.
   ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION. Any obstruction which is not a natural obstruction.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. General repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning engines,
motor vehicles, or trailers; collision service, including body, frame, or
fender straightening, or repair; overall painting or paint job; vehicle steam
cleaning; and upholstering.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. Any place where two or more vehicles not in running
condition and/or not street licensed, or parts thereof, are stored in the open,
and are not being restored to operation; or any land, building, or structure
used for wrecking or storing of the motor vehicles, or parts thereof; and
including any commercial salvaging and scavenging of any other goods, articles,
or merchandise. Or as amended (reference to Title IX §§
93.01 through
93.99 of this code).
   BASEMENT. Any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a
floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a
BASEMENT unless the floor level qualifies as a first story as defined herein.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. An owner or manager-occupied dwelling where lodging
in up to four guest rooms and board is provided.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals, or lodging and meals, are provided
to three or more persons, not of the principal family therein, pursuant to
previous arrangements, and not to anyone who may apply, but not including a
building providing these services for more than ten persons.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required setbacks and
open spaces have
been provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure used, or intended, for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the building and
the specified lot line, as prescribed in this chapter.
   BUSINESS. Any establishment, occupation, employment, or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited, or sold, or where services are offered
for compensation.
   CAMPGROUND. An area accessible by vehicle and containing campsites or
camping spurs for tent and trailer camping. CAMPGROUNDS are not allowed in city
limits.
   CARPORT. A canopy constructed of metal or other materials supported by
posts, either ornamental or solid, and completely open on three sides.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct water either continuously or
periodically.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship, and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body, which has federal tax exempt status, that are organized to
sustain public worship.
   CLUB or LODGE. A non-profit association of persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, and the use of premises being restricted to members and
their guests. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on the premises,
providing adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are available.
Serving of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests shall be allowed,
provided the serving is secondary and incidental to the operation of the dining
room for the purpose of serving food and meals, and provided further that the
serving of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the applicable federal,
state, and municipal laws.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. Bowling alley, cart track, jump center, golf, pool
hall, vehicle racing or amusement, dance hall, skating, trampoline, tavern,
theater, firearms range, boat rental, amusement rides, campgrounds, deer park,
and similar uses.
   COMMERCIAL USES. All permitted and accessory uses allowed in the GBD and CBD
Districts.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN prepared and adopted
by the city, indicating the general locations recommended for major land uses,
streets, parks, public buildings, and other public improvements.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which, because of special problems of control,
requires reasonable, but special, unusual, and extraordinary limitations
peculiar to the use for the protection of the public welfare and the integrity
of the city’s comprehensive plan.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Council in accordance with
procedures specified in this chapter, as well as its compatibility with the
city’s comprehensive plan, as a flexibility device to enable the City Council
to assign dimensions to a proposed use, or conditions surrounding it, after
consideration of adjacent uses and their functions, and the special problems
which the proposed use presents.
   CONDOMINIUM. A multiple dwelling containing individually owned dwelling
units and jointly-owned, and shared, areas and facilities, which dwelling is
subject to the provisions of the State Condominium Law, M.S. §§ 515.01 through
515.29, as they are amended from time to time.
   CONVENIENCE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which serves food in or on
disposable or edible containers in individual servings for consumption on or
off the premises.
   DAY CARE, GROUP NURSERY. A service provided to the public in which children
of school or preschool age are cared for by a state-licensed day care facility
during established business hours.
   DAY CARE, HOME. A family dwelling in which foster care, supervision, and
training for children of school or preschool age, out of their own home, is
provided.
   DEPARTMENT STORE. A business which has a variety of unrelated merchandise
and services are housed, enclosed, and exhibited, and sold directly to the
customer for whom the goods and services are furnished.
   DEPOSITION. Any rock, soil, gravel, sand, or other material deposited
naturally or by humans into a waterbody, watercourse, floodplains, or wetlands.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which the regulations and
provisions governing the use of buildings and lands are uniform for each class
of use permitted therein.
   DIVERSION. A channel that intercepts surface water runoff, and that changes
the accustomed course of all, or part, of a stream.
   DRAINING. The removal of surface water or groundwater from land.
   DREDGING. To enlarge or clean out a waterbody, watercourse, or wetland.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which accommodates the patron’s
automobile from which products or services are provided from the establishment.
   DWELLING, MANUFACTURE HOME. A detached residential dwelling unit designed
for transportation after fabrication on streets or highways on its own wheels
or on flatbed, or other trailers, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks, or other
temporary or permanent foundations, connections to utilities, and the like. A
TRAVEL TRAILER is not to be considered as a MANUFACTURED HOME.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE (APARTMENT). A building designed with three or more
dwelling units exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living
independently of each other, but sharing hallways, and main entrances and
exits.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling unit designed for occupancy of
one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any building, or portion thereof, which contains living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation,
as required by this chapter, for not more than one family, or a congregate
residence for ten or less persons.
   EARTH SHELTERED BUILDINGS. Buildings constructed so that more than 50% of
the exterior surface area of the buildings, excluding garages and other
accessory buildings, is covered with earth, and the Building Code standards
promulgated pursuant to §
154.327, and as amended, are satisfied. PARTIALLY COMPLETED BUILDINGS shall not
be considered EARTH SHELTERED.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner of the use by another, and for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of the property.
   ENCROACHMENT LINES. The lateral limits or lines drawn along each side, and
generally parallel to a stream or another body of water, which delineates the
floodway, and within which the flood-carrying capacity of the stream, or other
body of water, is to be preserved. Their location, if along a stream, should be
that the floodway between them will effectively carry and discharge a flood not
less than a regional flood.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water
distribution systems; collection, communication, supply, or disposal system
including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire
alarm boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, or other similar equipment and
accessories in conjunction therewith; but not including buildings or
transmission services.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood or marriage,
or group of not more than six unrelated persons living together on the premises
or in a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a
boarding house, lodging house, hotel, club lodge, sorority, or fraternity
house, as herein described.
   FENCE. A barrier forming a boundary to, or enclosing, some area.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream flow or stage that results in inundation
of the areas adjacent to the channel.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of
the building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR). The floor area of the building or buildings on that
zoning lot divided by the area of the zoning lot, or, in the case of planned
developments or group housing projects, by the gross site areas.
   FORESTRY. The management, including logging, of a forest, woodland, or
plantation, and related research and educational activities, including the
construction, alteration, or maintenance of wood roads, skid roads, landings,
and fences.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building, or accessory portion of the
principle building, which is intended for, and used, to store the private
passenger vehicles of the family or families resident upon the premises, and in
which no business service or industry is carried on; provided that not more
than one-half of the space may be rented for the private vehicles of persons
not resident on the premises, except that all the space in a garage of one- or
two-car capacity may be so rented.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building, or portion of a building, except as herein
defined as a private garage or as a repair garage, used for the storage of
motor vehicles, or where any vehicles are kept for remuneration or hire, and
which any sale of gasoline, oil, and accessories is only incidental to the
principle use.
   GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving, or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line, or when the property line is more than five
feet from the building between the building and a line five feet from the
building.
   GRADING. Changing the natural or existing topography of land.
   GREENBELT. A planned barrier consisting of dense vegetation used for the
purpose of separation and screening of land uses.
   GROWTH MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The goals, policies, programs, ordinances, and
regulations used to guide the city’s growth and development.
   GUEST ROOM. A room occupied by one or more guests for compensation and in
which no provision is made for cooking, but not including rooms in a dormitory
for sleeping purposes primarily.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance above a reference datum measured
to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a
mansard roof, or to the average height of the highest gable of a pitched, or
hipped, roof. The reference datum shall be selected by either of the following,
whichever yields a greater HEIGHT OF BUILDING:
      (1)   The elevation of the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground surface
within a five-foot (1,524 millimeters) horizontal distance of the exterior wall
of the building when the sidewalk or ground surface is not more than ten feet
(3,048 millimeters) above the lowest grade; or
      (2)   An elevation ten feet (3,048 millimeters) higher than the lowest
grade when the sidewalk or ground surface described in division (1) above is
more than ten feet (3,048 millimeter) above the lowest grade. The height of a
stepped or terraced building is the maximum height of any segment of the
building.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of the
family residing on the premises, provided that the use is clearly incidental
and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes, does not change
the character of the dwelling, and does not utilize more than one-third of the
building’s floor area.
   HOTEL. Any building containing six or more guest rooms intended, or
designed, to be used, or which are used, rented, or hired out to be occupied,
or which are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. An artificial or natural surface through which water,
air, or roots cannot penetrate.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. A permitted, conditional, or accessory use allowed in the I-
1 and I-2 Districts.
   KENNEL. Owning or harboring more than two dogs or two cats, or combination
of, shall constitute keeping a KENNEL, excluding liters of offspring less than
six months old. Refer to §§
92.01 through
92.09, or as amended, regarding regulations for keeping animals.
   LODGING HOUSE. Any building, or portion thereof, containing not more than
five guest rooms where rent is paid in money, goods, labor, or otherwise.
   LODGING ROOM. A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities and with, or without, an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms without cooking facilities, each room which provides sleeping
accommodation shall be counted as one LODGING ROOM.
   LOT. Land occupied, or to be occupied, by a building and its accessory
buildings, together with the open spaces as are required under the provisions
of this chapter, having not less than the minimum area required by this chapter
for a building site in the district in which the LOT is situated, and having
its principle frontage on a street, or a proposed street, approved by the
Council.
   LOT (OF RECORD). A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described, of record as of the effective date of this chapter, or approved by
the city as a lot subsequent to the date, and which is occupied by, or intended
for occupancy by, one principle building or principle use, together with any
accessory buildings and the open spaces as required by this chapter, and having
its principle frontage on a street, or a proposed street, approved by the
Council.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines.
   LOT CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of, and abutting on, two or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which is 135 degrees or less.
   LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separated
ownership, except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the LOT LINE shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-
of-way.
   LOT, FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be the boundary abutting a public
right-of-way.
   LOT, INTERIOR. Including through lots, excluding corner lots.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot fronting on two parallel streets.
   LOT, WIDTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured at right angles at the building line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections which,
in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or
more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or
without a permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained therein; except that the term includes any structure which meets all
the requirements, and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files
a certification required by the secretary, and complies with the standards
established under M.S. Chapter 327, as it is amended from time to time.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, DEPENDENT. An approved manufactured home park which
has underground utility service to each site and only permits independent
manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, INDEPENDENT. An approved manufactured home park
which has underground utility service to each site, and also restroom and
washing facilities as specified by the state.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, INDEPENDENT. A manufactured home which is constructed to
utilize a public water and sewer system, an external source of electric
service, and an internal source for heating, and shall be equipped with a
stool, shower, or tub, and laundry facilities.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. The manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment, or assembly of products and materials that may emit objectionable
and offensive influences beyond the lot on which the use is located.
Manufacturing activities associated with the I-2 District.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. All uses which include the compounding, processing,
packaging, treatment, or assembly of products and materials, provided the use
will not generate offensive odors, glare, smoke, dust, noise, vibration or
other objectionable influences that extend beyond the lot on which the use is
located. Manufacturing activities associated with the I-1 District.
   MEDICAL AND DENTAL CLINIC. A structure intended for providing medical and
dental examinations and service available to the public. This service is
provided without overnight care available.
   MOTOR FUEL STATION. A place where gasoline, stored only in underground
tanks, kerosene, motor oil, and lubricants for operation of automobiles, are
related directly to the public on premises, and including minor accessories and
services for automobiles, but not including automobile major repairs and
rebuilding.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL (TRUCK TERMINAL). A building in which freight brought
by motor truck is assembled and sorted for routing in intrastate shipment.
   NAME PLATE. A sign indicating the name and address of a building, or the
name of an occupant thereof, and the practice of a permitted occupation
therein.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All land surface areas which, by nature of their
contour configuration, collect, store, and channel surface water runoff.
   NATURAL OBSTRUCTION. Any rock, tree, gravel, or analogous natural matter
that is an obstruction and has been located within a waterbody, watercourse, or
wetland by a non-human cause.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES OR USE. Any structure or use, not including
existing residential homes and accessory buildings, which, on the effective
date of September 16, 1998, does not, even though lawfully established, conform
to the applicable conditions of the structure or use was to be erected under
the guidance of this chapter.
   NURSING HOME (REST HOME). A building having accommodations where care is
provided for two or more invalids, infirmed, aged convalescent, or physically
disabled persons that are not of the immediate family, but not including
hospitals, clinics, sanitariums, or similar institutions as defined by M.S. §
144A.01, as it is amended from time to time.
   OBSTRUCTION (FLOOPLAIN). Any storage of material or equipment, any darn,
wall, wharf, embankment, levee, road, dike, pile, abutment projection,
excavation, channel rectification, culvert, building, wire, fence, stockpile,
refuse, fill, deposit, clearing of trees or vegetation, structure, or matter
in, along, across, or projecting, in whole or in part, into any floodplain.
   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE. A space accessible from the street, alley, or way,
in a building or on the lot, for the use of trucks while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials. The space shall be of the size as to accommodate one
truck of the type typically used in the particular business.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Any open land used or occupied for the purpose of buying,
selling, and/or renting merchandise, and for the storing of same prior to sale.
   OPEN SPACE RECREATIONAL USE. Recreational use particularly oriented to, and
utilizing, the character of an area, including hiking and riding trails,
primitive campsites, campgrounds, waysides, parks, and recreational areas.
   PARAPET. A low wall which is located perpendicular to (extension of front
wall) a roof of a building.
   PARKING RAMP. An accessory structure designed and used for the storage of
motor vehicles at, below, and/or above grade.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of not less than nine feet in width and 19 feet in
length, enclosed in the main building, in an accessory building, or unenclosed,
sufficient in size to store one automobile which has adequate access to a
public street or alley, and permitting satisfactory ingress and egress of an
automobile.
   PERMITTED USE. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and performance standards (if any) of the districts.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
organization of any kind.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A large lot or tract of land developed as a unit
rather than as an individual development, wherein two or more buildings may be
located in relationship to each other rather than to lot lines or zoning
district boundaries.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The planning agency of the city, designated by the City
Council.
   PRINCIPLE USE. The primary or main use of land or buildings as distinguished
from subordinate, incidental, or accessory uses.
   PUBLIC USES. Uses owned or operated by municipal, school districts, county,
state, or other governmental units.
   RECREATIONAL FIELD OR BUILDING.
      (1)   An area of land, water, or any building in which amusement,
recreation, or athletic sports are provided for public, or semi-public, use,
whether temporary or permanent, except a theater, whether the provision is made
for the accommodation of an assembly or not.
      (2)   A golf course, arena, baseball park, stadium, circus, or gymnasium
is a RECREATIONAL FIELD OR BUILDING for the purpose of this chapter.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular portable structure used for amusement,
vacation, or recreational activities including, but not limited to, travel
trailers, motor homes, camping trailers, snowmobiles, boats, bicycles, ATVs,
and motorcycles.
   REFUSE OR JUNK YARD. Any yard containing rubbish, salvage materials, an
automotive vehicle or trailer of any kind or type without current licence
plates, junk, or miscellaneous refuse.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment which serves food in or on non-disposable
dishes, to be consumed primarily while seated at tables or booths within the
building.
   SELECTIVE CUTTING. The removal of single scattered trees.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure and a road or
highway, right-of-way, or property lot line.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any system for the collection, treatment, and
dispersion of sewage, including, but not limited to, septic tanks, soil
absorption systems, and drain fields. Refer to Title V, Public Works, for
further sewer regulations.
   SHOPPING CENTER. Any contiguous group of four or more retail stores or
service establishments, comprising 12,000 or more square of floor area which
provides off-street parking utilized, in common, by patrons.
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display or illustration which is
affixed to, or represented directly or indirectly upon, an awning, canopy,
marquee, building structure, or piece of land which directs attention to an
object, project, place, activity, person, institution, organization, or
business. A SIGN shall not include any official court or other public notices,
nor shall it include the flag, emblem, or insignia of a nation, political unit,
school, or religious or service, or fraternal group.
   SIGN, ACCESSORY. A sign relating in its subject matter to the premises on
which it is located, or to which it refers, or to products, accommodations,
services, or activities on the premises on which it is located, or to which it
refers.
   SIGN, ADDRESS. A sign communicating street address only, whether written or
in numerical form.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which promotes products, accommodation, services,
or activities not exclusively used, sold, or performed on the premises on which
the sign is located. See §
154.333.
   SIGN AREA. The area within the marginal lines created by the sign surface
which bears the advertisement or, in the case of messages, figures, or symbols
attached directly to the part of a building, which is included in the smallest
geometric figure which can be made to circumscribe the message, figure, or
symbol displayed thereon.
   SIGN AREA, IDENTIFICATION. A free standing sign which identifies the name of
a residential subdivision consisting of 20 or more lots; a multiple residential
complex, consisting of three or more independent concerns; a single business
consisting of three or more separate structures existing on individual platted
lots or as a planned unit development; or any integrated combination of the
above. The sign shall be limited only to the identification of an area or
complex, and shall not contain the name of individual owners or tenants, nor
contain advertising.
   SIGN, AUXILIARY. A smaller secondary sign functioning in a subsidiary
capacity to a principle sign. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, BANNERS AND PENNANT. Attention-getting devices which resemble flags
and are part of a paper, cloth, or plastic-like consistency.
   SIGN, BENCH. A sign which is affixed to a sitting bench. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. Any permanent, non-governmental sign with not more than two
sides advertising product services, commodities, entertainment, or other
activity not offered at the location of the sign, or not exclusively related to
the premises on which the sign is located. A BILLBOARD is a free standing sign,
other than a pylon sign, having an area of up 200 square feet. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, CAMPAIGN. A temporary sign promoting the candidacy of a person running
for a governmental office, or promoting an issue to be voted on at a
governmental election.
   SIGN, CANOPY AND MARQUEE. Any message or identification which is affixed to
a projection or extension of a building or structure, erected in a manner as to
provide a shelter or cover over the approach to any entrance of a store,
building, or place of assembly. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. A sign placed at a construction site, identifying the
project or the name of the architect, engineer, contractor, financier, or other
involved parties.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign erected on public or private property which bears
the address and/or name of a business, institution, church, or other use of
activity, plus directional arrows or information on location. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, DIRECTORY. An exterior informational wall sign which does not exceed
four square feet, and identifies the names of business served by a common
public entrance in a shopping center. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Illuminated sign on which the illumination is not kept
stationary or constant in intensity and/or color at all times when the sign is
in use.
   SIGN, FREE STANDING. A sign and sign structure, both of which are not more
than 12 feet in height. The sign shall be limited in area to a maximum of 35
square feet on each face. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, GOVERNMENTAL. A sign which is erected by a unit of government.
   SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA. The entire area, in square feet, within a single
continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of the complete message of
any sign, which limits shall include the surface on which the message is
affixed, unless the individual letters of the message affixed directly to the
surface of a wall, in which case the maximum height and width shall apply. The
permits shall not include any structural elements lying outside the limits of
the sign surface which do not form an integral part of the sign message, except
where the sign structure is held by the Zoning Administrator to be larger than
required for structural strength.
   SIGN, HOLIDAY. Signs or displays which contain or depict a message
pertaining to a national, state, or local holiday, and no other matter.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. Signs located in a residential district which identify
a subdivision, apartment complex, or similar identifications, and set forth the
address of the premises where the sign is located, and signs in all other
districts which identify the business or owner, and set forth the address of
the premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign which is lighted by an artificial light source,
either directly upon it or illuminated from an interior source.
   SIGN, INFORMATIONAL. Any sign giving information to employees, visitors, or
delivery vehicles, but containing no advertising or identification. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, INSTITUTIONAL. A sign or bulletin board which identifies the name or
other characteristics of a public, semi-public, or private institution on the
site where the sign is located. Institutions shall include churches, schools,
city buildings, and other non-profit and charitable organizations. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, INTEGRAL. A sign carrying the name of a building, its date of
erection, monumental citations, commemorative tablets, and the like, when
carved into stone, concrete, or similar material, or made of bronze, aluminum,
or other permanent type of construction, and made an integral part of the
structure. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, MAXIMUM HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the nearest
finished grade to the highest limit of the sign. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, MINIMUM HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the nearest
finished grade to the lower limit of the sign. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, MONUMENT. A sign whose base and structure is positioned primarily on
the ground and is typically solid from the grade to the top of the structure.
MONUMENT SIGNS shall not exceed 20 square feet in area. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, MOTION. Any sign which revolves, rotates, has any moving parts, or
gives the illusion of motion (for example, zip flashers, flashing signs, or
similar devices), including a written moving message indicating time and
temperature.
   SIGN, NON-CONFORMING.
      (1)   Legal. A sign which lawfully existed at the time of the passage of
this chapter, or amendment thereto, but which does not conform with the
regulations of this chapter; and
      (2)   Illegal. A sign which was constructed after the passage of this
chapter, or amendment thereto, and does not conform with the regulations of
this chapter.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign which advertises a business which is not located
upon the property on which the sign is located.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign located on the premises or property of an
individual, business, or organization when the sale or lease of the premises,
or the identification produces, or services, of the individual, business, or
organization are the subject of the sign.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign so designed as to be movable from one location to
another, and which is not permanently attached to the ground or structure, such
as portable or wheeled signs, or signs on parked vehicles where the sign is the
primary use of the vehicle. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign that projects out over the front edge of the roof
structure and/or the face of the building at a perpendicular angle to the
building. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, PUBLIC. Signs of a public, non-commercial nature to include safety
signs, danger signs, trespassing signs, traffic signs, signs indicating scenic
or historical points of interest, memorial plaques, and the like, when signs
are erected by, or on order of, a public officer or employee in the performance
of official duty.
   SIGN, PYLON. A sign other than a monument sign or billboard supported by its
own free standing structure, with a maximum area of 200 square feet per face,
and a maximum height not to exceed 35 feet. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT. A business sign placed on the premises of a
subdivision or other real estate development.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign placed upon a property advertising that particular
property for sale, for rent, or for lease. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, ROOF. Any sign which is erected, constructed, or attached wholly, or
in part, upon or to cover the roof of a building. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, RUMMAGE/GARAGE SALE. The infrequent temporary display and sale by an
occupant on his or her premises, or personal property, including general
household rummage, used clothing, and appliances, provided the exchange or sale
of merchandise is conducted within the residence or accessory structure.
   SIGN, SANDWICH BOARD TYPE. A temporary portable sign allowed by permit.
Allowable size is three feet by three feet, or nine square feet. Liability for
the sign is the responsibility of the business owner. See §
154.326(D)(3).
   SIGN, SHOPPING CENTER IDENTIFICATION. A free standing or pylon sign and sign
structure adjacent to an arterial street which are limited to 35 feet in
height. The sign shall be limited in area to a maximum of 200 square feet. See
§
154.333.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The supports, uprights, bracing, and framework for a sign,
including the sign area.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A non-permanent banner or pennant, construction, campaign,
holiday, real estate, rummage sale, or portable sign affixed or displayed on a
premises. See §
154.333.
   SIGN, TOTAL ALLOWABLE AREA. The maximum allowable gross surface area in
square feet of a sign or signs. The maximum number of signs cannot be arranged
and integrated as to create a surface area in excess of the requirements.
   SIGN, TRAFFIC. A sign which is erected by a governmental unit for the
purpose of directing or guiding traffic.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign which is affixed directly to, or painted on, or otherwise
inscribed on, an exterior wall or window of any building, and projects toward
therefor no more than one inch. See §
154.333.
   SLOPE. The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually
expressed in percent or degrees.
   STORY. Portion of a building included between the upper surface of any floor
and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the top-most STORY
shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the
top-most floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a usable or unused underfloor space is more than six feet (1,829
millimeters) above grade, as defined herein, for more than 50% of the total
perimeter, or is more than 12 feet (3,658 millimeters) above grade, as defined
herein, at any point, the usable or unused underfloor space shall be considered
a STORY.
   STORY, FIRST. The lowest story in a building which qualifies as a story, as
defined herein, except that a floor level in a building having only one floor
level shall be classified as a FIRST STORY, provided the floor level is not
more than four feet (1,219 millimeters) below grade, as defined herein, for
more than 50% of the total perimeter, or not more than eight feet (2,438
millimeters) below grade, as defined herein, at any point.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The proximity of a parcel of land to one or more streets.
An interior lot has one STREET FRONTAGE and a corner lot has two frontages.
   STRUCTURE. Anything which is built, constructed, or erected; an edifice or
building of any kind; or any piece of work artificially built up, and/or
composed of, parts joined together in some definite manner whether temporary or
permanent in character.
   SUBSTANDARD USE. Any use existing prior to the date of this chapter which is
permitted within the applicable zoning district but does not meet the minimum
lot area, frontage, setbacks, or other dimensional standards of the chapter.
   TOWNHOUSES. Structures housing two or more dwelling units of not more than
two stories each, and contiguous to each other only by sharing one common wall,
the structures to be of the town or row houses type as contrasted to multiple
dwelling apartment structures. No single structure shall contain, in excess, of
eight dwelling units, and each dwelling unit shall have a separate and
individual front and rear entrances.
   USABLE OPEN SPACE. A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which is
grade, developed, landscaped, and equipped, and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation, or both, available and accessible to, and
useable by, all persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot,
and their guests. The areas shall be grassed and landscaped, or covered, and
only for a recreational purpose. Roofs, driveways, and parking areas shall not
constitute USABLE OPEN SPACE.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied, utilized, or
maintained, and shall include the performance of the activity as defined by the
performance standards of this chapter.
   VARIANCE. A legally permitted deviation from the strict terms of a city’s
land use standards specified in this chapter.
   VEGETATION. The sum total of plant life in some area, or a plant community
with distinguishable characteristics.
   WATERBODY. A body of water (lake, pond) in a depression of land or expanded
part of a river, or an enclosed basin that holds water and is surrounded by
land.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel or depression through which water flows, such as
rivers, streams, or creeks, and may flow year around or intermittently.
   WATERSHED. The area drained by the natural and artificial drainage system,
bounded peripherally by a bridge or stretch of high land dividing drainage
areas.
   WATERSHED MANAGEMENT OR FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE. A dam, floodwall, wingdam,
dike, diversion channel, or an artificially deepened or widened stream channel
following the same, or approximately the same, course as the natural channel,
or any other structure for altering or regulating the natural flow condition of
a river or stream. The term WATERSHED MANAGEMENT OR FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE
does not include pilings, retaining walls, gabion baskets, rock riprap, or
other facilities intended primarily to prevent erosion, and which must be
authorized by permit from the Commissioner of the State Department of Natural
Resources.
   WETLANDS. An area where water stands near, at, or above the soil surface
during a significant portion of most years, saturating the soil and supporting
a predominantly aquatic form of vegetation, and which may have the following
characteristics:
      (1)   Vegetation belonging to the marsh (emergent aquatic) bon, fen,
sedge meadow, shrubland, southern lowland forest (lowland hardwood), and
northern lowland forest (conifer swamp) communities (these communities
correspond roughly to WETLAND types 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, and 8 described by the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Circular 39, “Wetlands of the U.W.”,
1956);
      (2)   Mineral soils with grey horizons or organic solids belonging to the
histosol order (peat and muck); and
      (3)   Soil which is water logged or covered with water at least three
months out of the year. Swamps, bogs, marshes, potholes, web meadows, and
sloughs are wetlands, and properly may be shallow water bodies, the waters of
which are stagnant or actuated by very feeble currents, and may at times be
sufficiently dry to permit tillage, but would require drainage to be made
arable. The edge of a WETLAND is commonly the point where the natural
vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
   WILDLIFE. All free living animals.
   YARD. An open space on the lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky. A YARD extends along a lot line at right angles to the
lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the zoning
district in which the lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the side
lot lines, and lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of
the building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the side line of the lot and the nearest line of
the building, and extending from the front line of the lot to the rear yard.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. A person appointed by the City Council to enforce this
chapter.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the limits of the city for which
the regulations and requirements governing use are uniform.
   ZONING MAP. The maps or map incorporated into this chapter as part thereof
and as amended, designating the zoning district.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 230, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 154.009 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW PROGRAM.
   The purpose of the Environmental Review Program section is to provide for
the preparation and review of Environmental Assessment Worksheets (EAW),
Environmental Impact Statements (EIS), and other environmental documents
required under M.S. § 116D.04, subd. 2a, as it may be amended from time to
time, and M.S. § 116D.01 as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.010 ZONING MAP.
For a printer-friendly version of the Zoning Map, click here.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b36b9d42e9370ada2703e0869412408390d30e7d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1808.png]
(Ord. 246, passed 5-2-2006)
[Reserved for future legislation]
GENERAL DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 154.025 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The following zoning districts are hereby established within the city:
   (A)   R-1: One-Family and Two-Family Residential District;
   (B)   R-2: Multiple Family Residential;
   (C)   R-3: Manufactured Home Park District;
   (D)   CBD: Central Business District;
   (E)   GB: General Business District;
   (F)   I-1: Limited Industrial District;
   (G)   I-2: General Industrial District;
   (H)   PUD: Planned unit development; and
   (I)   W: Wetlands District.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.026 MAP.
   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this subchapter
are hereby set forth on the zoning map entitled “ZONING DISTRICTS MAP OF
BRAHAM”. The map is on file with the Zoning Administrator and County Recorder,
and hereinafter referred to as the “zoning map”, which map and all of the
notations, references, and other information shown thereon shall have the same
force and effect as if fully set forth herein, and thereby made a part of this
chapter by reference.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b36b9d42e9370ada2703e0869412408390d30e7d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1808.png]
 
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.027 ANNEXATION; DETACHMENT.
   In the event of changes in the city limits removing territory from the city,
district boundaries shall be constructed as moving with city limits. In the
event of annexation of new areas to the city, the areas shall be considered to
be in the R-1 District until otherwise classified.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.028 ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways, alleys, or railroad lines shall be construed to follow the
center lines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following plotted lot lines
shall be construed as following the lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed to
follow the shore lines, and in the event of change in the shore line shall be
construed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the center lines of streams, rivers, lakes, or other
bodies of water shall be construed to following the center lines.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the city limits shall
be construed as following the city limits.
   (E)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in a single
ownership at the time of passage of this chapter, the extension of the
regulations for either portion of the lot beyond the district line into the
remaining portion of the lot may be interpreted by the Zoning Administration
upon request of the owner.
   (F)   The exact location of all district boundaries shall be interpreted by
the Zoning Administrator, subject to appeal as provided in §§
154.395 through
154.400 of this chapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.029 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of this chapter within each district shall be minimum
regulations, and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, except as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   No buildings, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building structure, or part thereof, shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered, except in
conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in
which it is located;
   (B)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered
to exceed the height or bulk, to accommodate or house a greater number of
families, to occupy a greater percentage of lot area, to have narrower or
smaller rear yards, front yard, side yards, or other open spaces than herein
required, or in any other manner contrary to the provision of this chapter;
   (C)   (1)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter
shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein.
      (2)   Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter
shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter; and
   (D)   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, subd. 9, as it may
be amended from time to time, the city opts-out of the requirements of M.S. §
462.3593, as it may be amended from time to time, which defines and regulates
temporary family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 276, passed 10-4-2016)
ONE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1)
§ 154.040 PURPOSE.
   The One-Family and Two-Family Residential District is intended to establish
an area of low to medium density residential uses consisting of one-family and
two-family dwellings and directly related complementary uses.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.041 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   One-family dwellings;
   (B)   Non-commercial gardening;
   (C)   Golf courses, country clubs, tennis courts, swimming pools, and
additional private and private-club recreational uses, all non-commercial;
   (D)   Churches, parish houses, convents, and child nurseries;
   (E)   Public buildings and uses of the following kinds: Elementary and
secondary schools (public), parks, playgrounds, libraries, museums, and
community centers;
   (F)   Two-family dwellings, if on lots of the areas and widths as
hereinafter required; and
   (G)   Child day care and group homes conforming to state statutes.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.042 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted:
   (A)   A state-licensed cemetery, crematory, mausoleum, government, public
utility, and public service uses, hospitals, sanitariums, homes for the aged
and similar institutions, and institutions of an educational, philanthropic, or
charitable nature when required for the public health, safety, or welfare;
   (B)   Automobile parking lots when required for off-street parking spaces
for any use not more than 300 feet distance therefrom;
   (C)   Public buildings and public uses, including public housing, temporary
and permanent;
   (D)   An apartment within an existing single-family dwelling; and
   (E)   Bed and breakfast inn, provided the following are adhered to:
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the parking
requirements of §§
154.295 through
154.307. A minimum of one off-street parking space per guest room shall be
provided in addition to the parking requirements for the zoning district in
which the facility is located;
      (2)   Signs shall be in accordance with the sign requirements in §§
154.320 through
154.333, and meet the requirements for the zoning district that the business is
located within. Identifying signs to be not more than four square feet in
total, located on the building and consistent with the character of the
building;
      (3)   The maximum of four guest rooms may be established in a structure;
      (4)   A bed and breakfast establishment shall show proof of inspection or
proof of proper operating licenses by the state and/or county;
      (5)   All guest rooms shall be contained within the principal structure;
      (6)   Dining and other facilities shall not be open to the public, but
shall be used exclusively by the residents and registered guests;
      (7)   The maximum stay for guests shall be 14 days within a 30-day
period;
      (8)   The inn shall comply with all applicable laws, rules, and
regulations governing its existence and operation, including, but not limited
to, the State Building Code, the State Fire Code, and the State Health Code;
and
      (9)   The owner or operator shall reside on the property, or submit a
management plan for approval as part of the conditional use permit.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.043 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in a R-1 District:
   (A)   Private garages, parking spaces, and carports for licensed and
operable passenger cars and trucks not to exceed a gross capacity of 9,000
pounds, as regulated by §§
154.295 through
154.307 of this chapter. Private garages are intended for use to store the
private passenger vehicles of the family or families resident upon the
premises, and in which no business service or industry is carried on. The space
can be rented to non-residents of the property for private passenger vehicles
and/or non-commercial vehicles, trailers, or equipment if sufficient off-street
parking in full compliance with this chapter is provided elsewhere on the
property. The garage shall not be used for the storage of more than one
commercial vehicle owned or operated by a resident per dwelling unit per
employer;
   (B)   Recreational vehicles and equipment;
   (C)   Non-commercial greenhouses and conservatories;
   (D)   Swimming pool, tennis courts, and other recreational facilities, which
are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the
principle use and their guests;
   (E)   Tool houses, sheds, and similar buildings for storage of domestic
supplies and non-commercial recreational equipment. Refer to §
154.280, or as amended;
   (F)   Boarding or renting of rooms within the principle building;
   (G)   Essential services;
   (H)   Fencing, screening, and landscaping as permitted and regulated by §
154.254;
   (I)   Piers and docks; and
   (J)   Home occupations consistent with §
154.280(G).
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.044 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   A lot area of not less than 10,000 square feet is required for a
single-family dwelling; for two-family dwellings, 15,000 square feet is
required.
   (B)   Lot width of not less than 75 feet of street frontage for a single-
family dwelling is required; for two-family dwellings, 100 feet of street
frontage is required.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.045 FRONT, SIDE, REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard. A front yard of not less than 30 feet is required.
   (B)   Side yards. Two side yards required, each with a width of not less
than eight feet each. Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more
streets, the width of the yard along the side street shall not be less than 30
feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. A rear yard with a depth of not less than 25 feet.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.046 FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All one-family and two-family dwellings require permanent foundations, which
means precast blocks or a poured concrete wall extending to the frost line.
Posts are not an acceptable foundation.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.047 MAXIMUM GROUND COVERAGE; GROUND FLOOR AREA.
   (A)   The sum total of the ground area covered by all structures and
impervious areas shall not exceed 33% of the lot on which the structures are
located.
   (B)   Minimum ground floor area shall be 960 square feet for a single-family
dwelling unit. An additional 100 square feet is required for each additional
bedroom over three bedrooms. Houses having one and one-half or more stories
shall have at least 720 square feet on the main floor. Two-family dwellings
must have at least 860 square feet of ground floor area.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.048 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   Building heights permitted are two and one-half stories, but not exceeding
35 feet. Accessory buildings must comply with §
154.280 of this chapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.049 BUILDABLE LOTS.
   Existing lots of 45 feet in width and street frontage, in existence and of
record prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall be deemed a buildable
lot provided it has frontage on a public right-of-way and it meets the
appropriate setback requirements.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2)
§ 154.060 PURPOSE.
   The Multiple-Family Residential District is intended to establish an area of
high-density housing in multiple family structures and directly related
complementary uses.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.061 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Conversion of any dwelling shall be in accordance with the State Uniform
Building codes, especially in relationship to minimum floor area required.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.062 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Non-commercial gardening;
   (B)   Golf courses, country clubs, tennis courts, swimming pools, and
additional private and private-club recreational uses, all non-commercial;
   (C)   Churches, parish houses, convents, and child nurseries;
   (D)   Public buildings and uses of the following kinds: Elementary and
secondary schools (public and private), parks, playgrounds, libraries, museums,
community centers, and campgrounds;
   (E)   One-family and two-family dwellings, if on lots of the areas and
widths hereinafter required; and
   (F)   Multiple dwelling structures containing 16 or less dwelling units.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 292, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 154.063 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted:
   (A)   A state-licensed cemetery, crematory, mausoleum, government, public
utility and public service uses, hospitals, sanitariums, homes for the aged and
similar institutions, and institutions of an educational, philanthropic, or
charitable nature when required for the public health, safety, or welfare;
   (B)   Automobile parking lots when required for off-street parking spaces
for any use not more than 500 feet distance therefrom;
   (C)   Boarding and lodging houses, multiple dwelling structures containing
more than 16 dwelling units; and
   (D)   Bed and breakfast inn, provided the following are adhered to:
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the parking
requirements of §§
154.320 through
154.333. A minimum of one off-street parking space per guest room shall be
provided in addition to the parking requirements for the zoning district in
which the facility is located;
      (2)   Signs shall be in accordance with the sign requirements in §§
154.320 through
154.333, and meet the requirements for the zoning district that the business is
located within. Identifying signs to be not more than four square feet in
total, located on the building, and consistent with the character of the
building;
      (3)   The maximum of four units may be established in a structure;
      (4)   A bed and breakfast establishment shall show proof of inspection or
proof of proper operating licenses by the state and/or county;
      (5)   All guest rooms shall be contained within the principal structure;
      (6)   Dining and other facilities shall not be open to the public, but
shall be used exclusively by the residents and registered guests;
      (7)   The maximum stay for guests shall be 14 days within a 30-day
period;
      (8)   The inn shall comply with all applicable laws, rules, and
regulations governing its existence and operation, including, but not limited
to, the State Building Code, the State Fire Code, and the State Health Code;
      (9)   A conditional use permit shall be terminated upon occurrence for
the following:
         (a)   Non-compliance with these provisions;
         (b)   Transfer of ownership of the property from the owner/operator;
and
         (c)   The creation of a condition which adversely affects the health,
safety, or general welfare of the city or its residents.
      (10)   The owner or operator shall reside on the property, or submit a
management plan for approval, as part of the conditional use permit.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.064 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in a R-2 District:
   (A)   Private garages, parking spaces, and carports for licensed and
operable passenger cars and trucks not to exceed a gross capacity of 9,000
pounds, as regulated by §§
154.295 through
154.307. Private garages are intended for use to store the private passenger
vehicles of the family or families resident upon the premises, and in which no
business service or industry is carried on. The space can be rented to non-
residents of the property for private passenger vehicles and/or non-commercial
vehicles, trailers, or equipment if sufficient off-street parking, in full
compliance with this chapter, is provided elsewhere on the property. The garage
shall not be used for the storage of more than one commercial vehicle owned or
operated by a resident per dwelling unit;
   (B)   Recreational vehicles and equipment;
   (C)   Non-commercial greenhouses and conservatories;
   (D)   Swimming pool, tennis courts, and other recreational facilities, which
are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the
principal use and their guests;
   (E)   Tool houses, sheds, and similar buildings for storage of domestic
supplies and non-commercial recreational equipment;
   (F)   Boarding or renting of rooms within principle building to not more
than one person;
   (G)   Essential services;
   (H)   Fencing, screening, and landscaping as permitted and regulated by §
154.254;
   (I)   Piers and docks; and
   (J)   Home occupations consistent with §
154.280(G).
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.065 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Multiple dwelling units having fewer than five dwelling units must
have a minimum lot area of 15,000 square feet. No less than 1,500 square feet
is required for each additional dwelling unit over four.
   (B)   The lot width required is not less than 100 feet of street frontage
for multi-family dwellings.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.066 FRONT, SIDE, REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard. A front yard of not less than 30 feet is required, except
that for any building exceeding 30 feet in height there shall be an additional
front yard setback of one foot for every one foot that the building exceeds the
height of 30 feet.
   (B)   Side yards. Two side yards required, each with a width of not less
than eight feet. Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more
streets, the width of the yard along the side street shall not be less than 30
feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. A rear yard with a depth of not less than 25 feet.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.067 MAXIMUM GROUND COVERAGE; GROUND FLOOR AREA.
   (A)   The sum total of the ground area covered by all structures shall not
exceed 33% of the lot on which the structures are located.
   (B)   Multiple family dwellings must have at least 820 square feet for a
three-bedroom unit, 720 square feet for a two-bedroom unit, and 600 square feet
for a one-bedroom unit.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.068 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   Building heights permitted are three stories but not exceeding 40 feet.
Accessory buildings shall not exceed 20 feet in height. See §
154.280.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.069 FOUNDATIONS.
   All multiple dwellings require permanent foundations, which means precast
blocks or a poured concrete wall extending to the frost line depth. Posts are
not an acceptable foundation.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
MANUFACTURED HOME DISTRICT (R-3)
§ 154.080 PURPOSE.
   The Manufacture Home Park District is to provide for manufactured home uses
in an appropriate, safe, sanitary, and attractive environment.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.081 PERMITTED USES.
   Manufactured homes are permitted uses.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.082 CONDITIONAL USES.
   There are no permitted conditional uses in the R-3 District.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.083 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses within a R-3 District:
   (A)   Off-street private parking facilities;
   (B)   Recreational vehicles and equipment;
   (C)   Swimming pools, tennis courts, and other recreational facilities;
   (D)   Fencing, screening, and landscaping as permitted and regulated by §
154.254;
   (E)   Tool houses, sheds, and similar storage buildings; and
   (F)   Central office and central community building.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.084 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   See MN State Building Code.
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD)
§ 154.095 PURPOSE.
   The Central Business District is designed and intended as a specialized
district directed to serve the pedestrian in a compact central area for the
city. The CBD District will provide for a high-density shopping and business
environment, especially stressing the pedestrian function and interaction of
people and businesses.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.096 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Every use, unless expressly exempted by this subchapter or allowed by a
conditional use permit, shall operate in its entirety within a completely
enclosed structure; the exemption of a use from the requirement of enclosure
will be indicated by the phrase “need not be enclosed”, appearing after any use
exempted or, in the case of a permitted establishment, by the granting of a
conditional use permit as provided in §§
154.380 through
154.383.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.097 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   Antenna service/cable television/radio;
   (B)   Antique store;
   (C)   Apparel and accessory store;
   (D)   Appliance store, sales, and service;
   (E)   Arcade/game store;
   (F)   Art supply store;
   (G)   Art gallery;
   (H)   Artist studio or school;
   (I)   Auto parts and accessory sales;
   (J)   Bait shop;
   (K)   Bakery retail;
   (L)   Bank, including drive-in bank;
   (M)   Barbershop;
   (N)   Bars and taverns;
   (O)   Beauty shop;
   (P)   Blueprinting and photostating;
   (Q)   Bicycle sales, repair, and rental;
   (R)   Bookstore;
   (S)   Bowling alleys;
   (T)   Business machines store;
   (U)   Café;
   (V)   Camera and photographic supply store;
   (W)   Candy, ice cream, and confectionery store, in which all manufacturing
is permitted only as an accessory use and is limited to 15% of the gross floor
area of the use;
   (X)   Catalog and mail order house;
   (Y)   Caterer;
   (Z)   Clinics, dental or medical, physical therapy, and chiropractic, but
not animal clinics or hospitals;
   (AA)   Clothing store;
   (BB)   Computer consultant, sales, furniture, graphics, imaging, programs,
service and repair training, and distribution of used and new computers;
   (CC)   Dance studio;
   (DD)   Delicatessen store;
   (EE)   Department store, discount store, outlet store;
   (FF)   Dressmaking, seamstress;
   (GG)   Drugstore;
   (HH)   Duplication services, copying, mailing, electronic imaging retail;
   (II)   Flea market/farmer’s market;
   (JJ)   Floral sales;
   (KK)   Food locker plant renting only individual lockers for home customer
storage of food, delivery of individual home orders, the cutting, packaging,
and retail sale of meats or game, including the slaughtering or eviscerating
thereof;
   (LL)   Furniture store and home furnishings;
   (MM)   Garden supplies store. Need not be enclosed, provided all unenclosed
portions of the use are located on the rear one-half of the zoning lot;
   (NN)   Gift, novelty, or souvenir store;
   (OO)   Grocery store;
   (PP)   Hardware store;
   (QQ)   Health equipment store;
   (RR)   Interior decorator;
   (SS)   Jewelry store;
   (TT)   Laundromat;
   (UU)   Licensed massage parlor;
   (VV)   Liquor store (off-sale);
   (WW)   Locksmith;
   (XX)   Luggage store;
   (YY)   Meat market and processing, including slaughtering;
   (ZZ)   Music store, accessories, and studio;
   (AAA)   Newsstand;
   (BBB)   Office of any type;
   (CCC)   Optician;
   (DDD)   Optical goods;
   (EEE)   Paint and wallpaper store;
   (FFF)   Photographic studio or picture processing;
   (GGG)   Plumbing, heating, air conditioning repair, sales, service, and
cleaning;
   (HHH)   Public buildings, city hall, library, fire hall, ambulance;
   (III)   Radio and television broadcasting (excluding transmitter);
   (JJJ)   Restaurants;
   (KKK)   Savings and loan association, state or federally chartered,
including drive-in facilities;
   (LLL)   Second hand shops;
   (MMM)   School (private);
   (NNN)   Shoe repair shop;
   (OOO)   Sporting goods store;
   (PPP)   Stationery store;
   (QQQ)   Tailor;
   (RRR)   Telephone exchange;
   (SSS)   Theater, not including drive-in theater;
   (TTT)   Theatrical studio;
   (UUU)   Ticket agency;
   (VVV)   Toy store;
   (WWW)   Travel bureau or agency;
   (XXX)   Variety store; and
   (YYY)   Video store.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 208, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 154.098 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted:
   (A)   Auction sales;
   (B)   Apartments;
   (C)   Parking of vehicles (need not be enclosed);
   (D)   Public or quasi-public development;
   (E)   Restaurants, cocktail lounges, and other eating or drinking
establishments which require additional parking spaces;
   (F)   Auto service station;
   (G)   Snowmobiles, ATVs, boats, autos, trucks, campers, motor homes,
trailers; sales, repair, rental, and storage;
   (H)   Other residential and commercial uses determined by the Planning
Commission to be of the same general character as identified permitted and
conditional uses, and found not to be detrimental to the general public health
and welfare; and
   (I)   Bed and breakfast inn, provided the following are adhered to:
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the parking
requirements of §§
154.295 through
154.307, or as amended. A minimum of one off-street parking space per guest
room shall be provided in addition to the parking requirements for the zoning
district in which the facility is located;
      (2)   Signs shall be in accordance with the sign requirements in §§
154.320 through
154.333, or as amended, and meet the requirements for the zoning district that
the business is located within. Identifying signs to be not more than four
square feet in total, located on the building and consistent with the character
of the building;
      (3)   The maximum of four units may be established in a structure;
      (4)   A bed and breakfast establishment shall show proof of inspection or
proof of proper operating licenses by the state and/or county;
      (5)   All guest rooms shall be contained within the principal structure;
      (6)   Dining and other facilities shall not be open to the public, but
shall be used exclusively by the residents and registered guests;
      (7)   The maximum stay for guests shall be 14 days within a 30-day
period;
      (8)   The inn shall comply with all applicable laws, rules, and
regulations governing its existence and operation, including, but not limited
to, the State Building Code, the State Fire Code, and the State Health Code;
      (9)   A conditional use permit shall be terminated upon occurrence for
the following:
         (a)   Non-compliance with these provisions;
         (b)   Transfer of ownership of the property from the owner/operator;
and
         (c)   The creation of a condition which adversely affects the health,
safety, or general welfare of the city or its residents.
      (10)   The owner or operator shall reside on the property, or submit a
management plan for approval as part of the conditional use permit.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.099 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in the CBD District:
   (A)   Commercial or business buildings and structures for a use accessory to
the principle use, but shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor area of the
principle use;
   (B)   Off-street parking as regulated by §§
154.295 through
154.307;
   (C)   Off-street loading as regulated by §§
154.295 through
154.307;
   (D)   Fencing, screening, and landscaping as permitted and regulated by §
154.254; and
   (E)   Off-street parking of truck tractor, semi trailers, or combination of,
shall not be allowed in the Central Business District for more than seven days
for any purpose other than delivery of goods or services to or from a business.
On-street parking in the Central Business District shall be regulated by §§
70.01 through
70.06,
70.20 through
70.25, and
70.99, or as amended.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.100 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   All structures shall be located on a zoning lot having a minimum area
of 6,000 square feet, and a minimum street frontage of 50 feet.
   (B)   All planned unit developments shall only be permitted on an area of at
least one acre.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.101 FRONT, SIDE, REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   No setbacks to be applied in the CBD District.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.102 TRANSITIONAL YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   In the CBD District, the minimum transitional yard requirements shall not be
less than those specified below:
   (A)   Where a side lot coincides with a side or rear lot line in an adjacent
residence district, a yard shall be provided along the side lot line. The yard
shall be equal in dimension to the minimum side yard which would be required
under this chapter for a residential use on the adjacent residential lot;
   (B)   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line in an adjacent
residence district, a yard shall be provided along the rear lot line. The yard
shall be equal in dimension to the minimum side yard which would be required
under this chapter for a residential use on the adjacent residential lot;
   (C)   Where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line in an adjacent
residence district, a yard shall be provided along the rear lot line. The yard
shall be not less than that which would be required for the rear yard for a
residential use on the adjacent residential lot; and/or
   (D)   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with a front
lot line of an adjacent lot located in a residential district, a yard equal in
depth to the minimum front yard required by this chapter on the adjacent
residential lot shall be provided along the front or side lot lines.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.103 MAXIMUM GROUND COVERAGE.
   No maximum ground coverage requirements.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.104 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   Building heights permitted are two and one-half stories, but not exceeding
35 feet, shall be permitted.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.105 BUILDING DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. 
      (1)   On all walls that face a public street, at least 25% of the entire
exterior wall surface, but not less than three feet of the entire exterior wall
surface measured from the ground up, shall be constructed of one of the
following materials:
         (a)   Face brick;
         (b)   Rock face block;
         (c)   Cementitious siding;
         (d)   Natural stone;
         (e)   Glass;
         (f)   Masonry stucco;
         (g)   Synthetic stucco; and/or
         (h)   Other comparable or superior material as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Buildings may be constructed of primarily one of the materials
listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(g) if the design exceeds the
intent of the design and construction standards.
   (B)   Accent materials. Wood and metal may be used as accent materials,
provided that they are appropriately integrated into the overall building
design, and not situated in areas that will be subject to physical or
environmental damage.
   (C)   Exceptions. The following exceptions are permitted.
      (1)   Twenty-five percent of the exterior wall surface and/or the three
feet of exterior wall surface measured from the ground up does not include
doors, doorways, or windows.
      (2)   The building sides that do not face a street must have a minimum of
waynes coating on the exterior a minimum of three feet of the entire exterior
wall surface measured from the ground up.
   (D)   Additions and alterations. All subsequent additions and alterations
constructed after the erection of an original building, or buildings, shall be
of the same materials as those used in the original building, and shall be
designed in a manner conforming to the original architectural concept and
general appearance. These provisions shall not prevent the city to require
upgrading of the quality of materials used in a remodeling or expansion
program.
(Ord. 240, passed 6-7-2005)
GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (GBD)
§ 154.120 PURPOSE.
   The General Business District is designed and intended to promote the
development of commercial uses which require large concentrations of automobile
traffic. The district is also designed to accommodate those commercial
activities which may be incompatible with the uses permitted in the GBD, and
whose service is not confined to any one neighborhood or community.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.121 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All business, servicing or processing, shall be conducted within completely
enclosed buildings, with the following exceptions: establishments of the
“drive-in” type display of merchandise for sale to the public, and off-street
parking and loading.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.122 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   ATV sales, repair, rental, and storage;
   (B)   Ambulance service;
   (C)   Appliance store, sales, and storage;
   (D)   Arcade/game store;
   (E)   Auction rooms;
   (F)   Auto, glass, muffler, and upholstery shop;
   (G)   Auto parts and accessory sales including outdoor display of auto
accessories, provided that the outdoor display of storage is separated from
abutting development by ornamental fencing or screen planting to be not less
than eight feet in height;
   (H)   Auto, trucks, campers, motor homes, trailer sales, and storage for new
or used equipment;
   (I)   Auto, trucks, campers, motor homes, and trailer repair garage, not
including dismantling or wrecking;
   (J)   Bait shop;
   (K)   Barber shop;
   (L)   Bars and taverns;
   (M)   Beauty shop;
   (N)   Bicycle store; sales, repair, rental, and storage;
   (O)   Blueprinting, photostating, and lithographing;
   (P)   Bowling alley and billiard parlor;
   (Q)   Building material yard;
   (R)   Bus, railway, or airline depot, or ticket office travel agency;
   (S)   Catalog service and mail order house;
   (T)   Child day care;
   (U)   Club or lodge;
   (V)   Computer consultant, sales, furniture, graphics, imaging, programs
service and repair, training for used and new;
   (W)   Dairy products store;
   (X)   Dance hall;
   (Y)   Diaper service;
   (Z)   Department store, discount store, outlet store, shopping center/mall;
   (AA)   Drive-in type establishments, not including theaters;
   (BB)   Drugstore;
   (CC)   Dry cleaning;
   (DD)   Duplication services, copying, mailing retail;
   (EE)   Electric contractor;
   (FF)   Exterminator;
   (GG)   Feed store;
   (HH)   Flea market or farmer’s market;
   (II)   Floral sales;
   (JJ)   Fruit store;
   (KK)   Garden supplies and landscape nursery;
   (LL)   Grocery store/supermarket;
   (MM)   Gunsmith;
   (NN)   Hall renting for meetings, conventions, or social gatherings;
   (OO)   Hardware store;
   (PP)   Health equipment and supply store;
   (QQ)   Health club or gym (athletic club and/or gym);
   (RR)   Hotel, motel, or tourist home;
   (SS)   Ice plant;
   (TT)   Janitorial service;
   (UU)   Laboratory, scientific and testing;
   (VV)   Laundromat;
   (WW)   Linen supply;
   (XX)   Liquor store (off-sale);
   (YY)   Locksmith;
   (ZZ)   Lumber yard;
   (AAA)   Medical appliances, sales, and fittings;
   (BBB)   Mortuary;
   (CCC)   Motorcycle store;
   (DDD)   Newsstand;
   (EEE)   Paint and wallpaper store;
   (FFF)   Painting and decorating contractor;
   (GGG)   Parking and/or commercial storage of vehicles (need not be
enclosed);
   (HHH)   Pawn shop;
   (III)   Pet store;
   (JJJ)   Photographic studio, picture processing, or equipment;
   (KKK)   Planned developments or shopping centers;
   (LLL)   Plumbing, heating, and air conditioning contractor;
   (MMM)   Printing, publishing, and allied industries;
   (NNN)   Public buildings, city hall, library, fire hall, ambulance service;
   (OOO)   Radio and television broadcasting (including transmitter and
studios);
   (PPP)   Restaurant;
   (QQQ)   Sign contractor;
   (RRR)   Second-hand store;
   (SSS)   Snowmobile sales, repair, and rental;
   (TTT)   Tailor;
   (UUU)   Taxidermist;
   (VVV)   Theatrical studio;
   (WWW)   Tire recapping and supply store;
   (XXX)   Upholstery shop of any type;
   (YYY)   Variety store;
   (ZZZ)   Veterinarian, including observation kennels for household pets,
provided, however, all kennels are contained within completely enclosed
structures;
   (AAAA)   Video store; and
   (BBBB)   Wholesale offices and showrooms.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.123 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted:
   (A)   Any drive-in type establishment, not including theaters;
   (B)   Any use, other than those enumerated as permitted uses, intended to
provide amusement on the payment of a fee, including, but not limited to, water
slide, golf range, raceway (go carts), roller skating rink, and mini-golf;
   (C)   Auto service station;
   (D)   Car wash;
   (E)   Community or convention center;
   (F)   Marine sales and service;
   (G)   Public or quasi-public development;
   (H)   Convenience food establishments;
   (I)   Shipping and storage of merchandise solely intended to be retailed by
the established principal permitted use;
   (J)   Sports arena or stadium;
   (K)   Other commercial uses determined by the Planning Commission to be of
the same general character as the permitted and conditional uses above, and
found not to be detrimental to the general public health and welfare; and
   (L)   Bed and breakfast inn, provided the following are adhered to:
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the parking
requirements of §§
154.295 through
154.307. A minimum of one off-street parking space per guest room shall be
provided in addition to the parking requirements for the zoning district in
which the facility is located;
      (2)   Signs shall be in accordance with the sign requirements in §§
154.320 through
154.333 and meet the requirements for the zoning district that the business is
located within. Identifying signs to be not more than four square feet in
total, located on the building, and consistent with the character of the
building;
      (3)   The maximum of four units may be established in a structure;
      (4)   A bed and breakfast establishment shall show proof of inspection or
proof of proper operating licenses by the state and/or county;
      (5)   All guest rooms shall be contained within the principal structure;
      (6)   Dining and other facilities shall not be open to the public, but
shall be used exclusively by the residents and registered guests;
      (7)   The maximum stay for guests shall be 14 days within a 30-day
period;
      (8)   The inn shall comply with all applicable laws, rules, and
regulations governing its existence and operation, including, but not limited
to, the State Building Code, the State Fire Code, and the State Health Code;
      (9)   A conditional use permit shall be terminated upon occurrence for
the following:
         (a)   Non-compliance with these provisions;
         (b)   Transfer of ownership of the property from the owner/operator;
and
         (c)   The creation of a condition which adversely affects the health,
safety, or general welfare of the city or its residents.
      (10)   The owner or operator shall reside on the property, or submit a
management plan for approval as part of the conditional use permit.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.124 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in the GBD District:
   (A)   Commercial or business buildings and structures for a use accessory to
the principle use, but shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor area of the
principle use;
   (B)   Off-street parking as regulated by §§
154.295 through
154.307, but not including semi-trailer trucks;
   (C)   Off-street loading as regulated by §
154.306; and
   (D)   Fencing, screening, and landscaping as permitted and regulated by §
154.254.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.125 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   All structures shall be located on a zoning lot having a minimum area
of 6,000 square feet, and a minimum street frontage of 50 feet.
   (B)   All planned developments shall only be permitted on an area of at
least one acre.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.126 FRONT, SIDE, REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   Except as otherwise hereinafter provided, all uses allowed in the
GBD Districts (permitted or conditional uses) shall provide a front yard of 15
feet which shall be devoted exclusively to landscaping, except for necessary
access drives.
      (2)   When off-street parking is to occur in the front yard area, the
front yard requirement shall be that the provisions of §§
154.295 through
154.307 are complied with.
   (B)   Side yard. No requirements.
   (C)   Rear yard. No requirements.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.127 TRANSITIONAL YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   In the GBD District, the minimum transitional yard requirements shall not be
less than those specified below:
   (A)   Where a side lot coincides with a side or rear lot line in an adjacent
residence district, a yard shall be provided along the side lot line. The yard
shall be equal in dimension to the minimum side yard which would be required
under this chapter for a residential use on the adjacent residential lot;
   (B)   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line in an adjacent
residence district, a yard shall be provided along the rear lot line. The yard
shall be equal in dimension to the minimum side yard which would be required
under this chapter for a residential use on the adjacent residential lot;
   (C)   Where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line in an adjacent
residence district, a yard shall be provided along the rear lot line. The yard
shall not be less than that which would be required for the rear yard for a
residential use on the adjacent residential lot; and
   (D)   Where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides with a front
lot line of an adjacent lot located in a residential district, a yard equal in
depth to the minimum front yard required by this chapter on the adjacent
residential lot shall be provided along the front or side lot lines.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.128 MAXIMUM GROUND COVERAGE.
   The sum total of the ground area covered by all structures shall not exceed
75% of the zoning lot on which the structures are located.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.129 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   Building heights permitted are two and one-half stories, but not exceeding
35 feet.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.130 BUILDING DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   On all walls, at least 25% of the entire exterior wall surface, but
not less than three feet of the entire exterior wall surface measured from the
ground up, shall be constructed of one of the following materials:
         (a)   Face brick;
         (b)   Rock face block;
         (c)   Cementitious siding;
         (d)   Natural stone;
         (e)   Glass;
         (f)   Masonry stucco;
         (g)   Synthetic stucco;
         (h)   Waynes coating; and
         (i)   Other comparable or superior material as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Buildings may be constructed of primarily one of the materials
listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(h) if the design exceeds the
intent of the design and construction standards.
   (B)   Accent materials. Wood and metal may be used as accent materials,
provided that they are appropriately integrated into the overall building
design, and not situated in areas that will be subject to physical or
environmental damage.
   (C)   Exception. The following is permitted: The 25% of the exterior wall
surface, and/or the three feet of exterior wall surface measured from the
ground up, does not include doors, doorways, or windows.
   (D)   Additions and alterations. All subsequent additions and alterations
constructed after the erection of an original building, or buildings, shall be
of the same materials as those used in the original building, and shall be
designed in a manner conforming to the original architectural concept and
general appearance. These provisions shall not prevent the city to require
upgrading of the quality of materials used in a remodeling or expansion
program.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 240, passed 6-7-2005)
LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-1)
§ 154.145 PURPOSE.
   The Limited Industrial District is established to provide exemplary
standards of development for certain industrial uses that prefer to be located
in choice or strategic sites. The Limited Industrial District is intended for
administrative, wholesaling, manufacturing, and related uses which can maintain
high standards of appearance, including open spaces and landscaping; limit
external effects such as noise, odors, smoke, and vibration; and not require a
high level of public services, including sewer and water services. With proper
control, these areas should be compatible with commercial or residential areas.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.146 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Any unenclosed uses, including storage, manufacturing, and assembly, shall
be subject to those performance standards set forth in §
154.156, and regulations set forth by §
154.182.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.147 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   Agriculture related (industry, grain dryers, fertilizer);
   (B)   Cabinet, woodworking establishments;
   (C)   Commercial printing, publishing establishments;
   (D)   Computer manufacturing or wholesaling;
   (E)   Dry cleaning, dyeing, and laundering establishments;
   (F)   Electronic devices (distribution of amusement devices, gambling
equipment, games, toys, and video games);
   (G)   Newspaper plants and offices, printing or publishing;
   (H)   Public utility structures and government buildings;
   (I)   Warehousing, wholesaling, and distribution operations;
   (J)   Welding (industrial);
   (K)   Monument plants including cutting, polishing, and engraving; and
   (L)   All uses permitted in the General Business District (GBD).
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 292, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 154.148 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted:
   (A)   Freight terminals; and
   (B)   Other manufacturing, production, servicing, processing, storage, or
commercial use determined by the Planning Commission to be of the same general
character as the permitted and conditional uses, and conform with the purpose
and performance standards set forth in this district.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.149 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in the I-1 District:
   (A)   Industrial buildings and structures for a use accessory to the
principle use, but shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor area of the
principle use;
   (B)   Off-street parking as regulated by §§
154.295 through
154.307, but not including semi-trailer trucks;
   (C)   Off-street loading as regulated by §§
154.295 through
154.307; and
   (D)   Fencing, screening, and landscaping as permitted and regulated by §
154.254.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.150 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Every individual lot, site, or tract shall have an area of not less
than one-half acre.
   (B)   Every lot or tract shall have a width of not less than 100 feet
abutting a public right-of-way.
   (C)   All planned unit developments shall only be permitted on an area of at
least two acres.
   (D)   There shall be a required minimum 10% reservation of the total lot
area for landscaping use. The landscaping shall conform in design and
appearance with the overall development plan as approved by the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.151 FRONT, SIDE, REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 35 feet
between building and the street right-of-way line to be devoted exclusively to
landscaping, except for necessary points of access.
      (2)   When off-street parking is to occur in the front yard area, the
front yard requirement shall be that the provisions of §§
154.295 through
154.307 are complied with.
   (B)   Side yard. There shall be two side yards, one on each side of a
building. Each side yard shall not be less than ten feet in width.
   (C)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard not less than 25 feet in depth.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.152 TRANSITIONAL YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   When any lot line coincides with a lot line of an adjacent residential
district, the setback shall be at least 30 feet.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.153 MAXIMUM GROUND COVERAGE.
   The sum total of the ground area covered by all structures shall not exceed
60% of the zoning lot on which the structures are located.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.154 MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   In the I-1 District, the FAR shall not exceed one and one-half.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.155 BUILDING DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   On all walls, at least 25% of the entire exterior wall surface, but
not less than three feet of the entire exterior wall surface measured from the
ground up, shall be constructed of one of the following materials:
         (a)   Face brick;
         (b)   Rock face block;
         (c)   Cementitious siding;
         (d)   Natural stone;
         (e)   Glass;
         (f)   Masonry stucco;
         (g)   Synthetic stucco;
         (h)   Waynes coating; and
         (i)   Other comparable or superior material as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Buildings may be constructed of primarily one of the materials
listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(h) if the design exceeds the
intent of the design and construction standards.
   (B)   Accent materials. Wood and metal may be used as accent materials,
provided that they are appropriately integrated into the overall building
design, and not situated in areas that will be subject to physical or
environmental damage.
   (C)   Exception. The following exception is permitted: The 25% of the
exterior wall surface, and/or the three feet of exterior wall surface measured
from the ground up, does not include doors, doorways, or windows.
   (D)   Additions and alterations. All subsequent additions and alterations
constructed after the erection of an original building, or buildings, shall be
of the same materials as those used in the original building, and shall be
designed in a manner conforming to the original architectural concept and
general appearance. These provisions shall not prevent the city to require
upgrading of the quality of materials used in a remodeling or expansion
program.
(Ord. 240, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 154.156 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   It is the intent of this section to provide that industry and related
activities shall be established and maintained with proper appearance from
streets and adjoining properties, and to provide that each permitted use shall
be a good neighbor to adjoining properties by the control of the following.
   (A)   Noise.
      (1)   General. Noise shall be measured on any property line of the tract
on which the operation is located. Noise shall be muffled so not to become
objectionable due to intermittent beat, frequency, shrillness, or intensity. At
the property line, the sound pressure level of noise radiated continuously from
a facility shall not exceed the values given in division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   Sound-pressure levels. Maximum permissible sound-pressure levels of
specified points of measurement for noise radiated continuously from a
facility:
Band Cycles per Second (frequency) Maximum Permitted Sound Level (decibels)
Band Cycles per Second (frequency) Maximum Permitted Sound Level (decibels)
20-75                              72
75-150                             67
150-300                            59
300-600                            52
600-1,200                          46
1,200-2,400                        40
2,400-4,800                        34
Over 4,800                         32
 
   (B)   Nuisance standards.
      (1)   Noise. Any use established shall conform to the noise standards
established in Minn. Rules § 7030.0040, or as it may be amended from time to
time. This standard shall not apply to incidental traffic, parking, loading,
construction, farming, or maintenance.
      (2)   Vibration. Any use creating periodic, earthshaking vibration shall
be prohibited if undue vibrations are perceptible beyond boundaries of the
property on which the use is located. This standard shall not apply to
vibrations created during the process of construction, or to permitted
quarrying operations subject to conditions placed upon the businesses.
      (3)   Glare and heat. Any use producing intense heat or light
transmission shall be performed with the necessary shielding to prevent the
heat or light from being detectable at the lot line of the site on which the
use is located.
      (4)   Smoke and particulate matter. Any use established, enlarged, or
remodeled after the effective date of this subchapter shall be so operated as
to meet the minimum requirements for ambient air quality standards, as
established in M.S. Chapter 7009, as it may be amended from time to time,
unless a permit has been secured from the county by the owner or operator of
the facility or use.
      (5)   Toxic or noxious matter. Any use which involves the use of, or the
manufacture of, toxic or noxious substances shall not discharge the substances
into the atmosphere, water, or subsoil.
      (6)   Explosives. Any use requiring the storage, use, or manufacture of
products which could decompose by detonation shall be located not less than 400
feet from any residence. This division (B)(6) shall not apply to the storage or
usage, or liquefied petroleum or natural gas, for normal residential or
business purposes.
      (7)   Radiation emission. All activities that emit radioactivity shall
comply with the minimum requirements of the MPCA.
      (8)   Electrical emission. All activities that create electrical
emissions shall comply with the minimum requirements of the FCC.
   (C)   Odor. No activity or operation shall cause, at any time, the discharge
of toxic, noxious, or odorous matter beyond the limits of the immediate site
where it is located in the concentrations as to be obnoxious or otherwise
detrimental to, or endanger, the public health, welfare, comfort, or safety, or
cause injury to property or business.
   (D)   Glare. Glare, whether direct or reflected, such as from floodlights,
spotlights, or high-temperature processes, and as differentiated from general
illumination, shall not be visible beyond the site of origin at any property
line.
   (E)   Exterior lighting. Any lights used for exterior illuminations shall be
directed away from adjacent properties.
   (F)   Smoke, dust, fumes, or gases. Every operation shall conform to local
standards.
   (G)   Hazard. Every operation shall be carried on in accordance with local
fire and safety codes.
   (H)   Water supply. The design and construction of water supply facilities
and water supply source shall be in accordance with local and state Department
of Health standards and requirements.
   (I)   Waste. All sewage and industrial wastes shall be treated and disposed
in the manner as to comply with the State Department of Health standards and
requirements, and local codes.
   (J)   Compliance. In order to assure compliance with the performance
standards set forth above, the Planning Commission may require the owner or
operator of any permitted use to make the investigations and tests, as may be
required, to show adherence to the performance standards.
   (K)   Additions. All subsequent additions and outbuildings constructed after
the erection of an original building, or buildings, shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.157 REGULATIONS ON SCREENING.
   Any unenclosed uses, including storage, manufacturing, and assembly,
occurring within 50 feet of a residential district, shall be screened and
buffered from the district by a wall and separation of open space which shall
have a minimum depth of 30 feet and shall include a required fence or
vegetative screening of not less than seven feet in height above the level of
the residential district property at the district boundary. Walls or fences of
lesser heights or planting screens may be permitted by the Board of Adjustment
and Appeals if there is a finding that the nature or extent to adequately
promote and protect the use and enjoyment of the properties within the adjacent
residential district, or there is a finding that a screening of the type
required by this chapter would interfere with the provision of adequate amounts
of light and air to same the properties. Loading docks in the industrial
district shall be screened so as not to be visible from any public street
right-of-way within a residential district. All required screening devices
shall be designed so that they are architecturally harmonious with the
principal structures on the site, and they shall be properly maintained so as
not to become unsightly, hazardous, or less opaque than when originally
constructed.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-2)
§ 154.170 PURPOSE.
   The General Industrial District is established to provide exemplary
standards of development for certain industrial uses that prefer to be located
in choice or strategic sites. These general industrial uses are less compatible
with commercial and residential areas and, therefore, are not appropriate in
the I-1 District.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.171 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The performance standards set forth in §
154.181.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.172 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   Art equipment supplies (manufacturing);
   (B)   Bags, boxes, and paper containers (manufacturing and storage);
   (C)   Bottling establishments;
   (D)   Books, loose leaf binders (fabrication and assembly);
   (E)   Books and bookbinding;
   (F)   Cabinet and woodworking establishments;
   (G)   Clothing manufacturing;
   (H)   Camera and photographic manufacturing;
   (I)   Cold storage plants, commercial printing, publishing, engraving, and
reproduction firms;
   (J)   Confectionery and related products (manufacturing and packaging);
   (K)   Dental instruments and supplies;
   (L)   Laundry, dry cleaning, and dying establishments;
   (M)   Electric lighting and wiring equipment (manufacturing);
   (N)   Electric measuring and testing equipment (manufacturing);
   (O)   Electronic tubes and other components (manufacturing);
   (P)   Electrical products and appliances (manufacturing and assembly);
   (Q)   Footwear (manufacture and fabrication);
   (R)   Hand and edge tools (except machine tools; manufacturing and
assembly);
   (S)   Ice plants and ice creams plants;
   (T)   Jewelry manufacturing;
   (U)   Laboratories (analytical, dental, medical, testing, or research);
   (V)   Laboratory instruments and associated equipment (scientific and
testing; manufacturing and assembly);
   (W)   Luggage, handbags, and similar items (manufacturing);
   (X)   Mail-order houses;
   (Y)   Medical and surgical instruments and supplies (manufacturing and
assembly);
   (Z)   Monument plants (cutting, polishing, engraving);
   (AA)   Newspaper plants and offices;
   (BB)   Office furniture and supplies (manufacturing and assembly);
   (CC)   Optical instruments and lenses (manufacturing and assembly);
   (DD)   Patterns (design and manufacturing);
   (EE)   Pottery shops;
   (FF)   Precision instruments (manufacturing and assembly);
   (GG)   Plastic extrusion, molding and fixture;
   (HH)   Plumbing fixture and equipment (wholesale);
   (II)   Radio and television (assembly and parts fabrication);
   (JJ)   Slaughtering and meat packing;
   (KK)   Sport equipment (manufacturing and assembly);
   (LL)   Scientific and research instruments and equipment (manufacturing and
assembly);
   (MM)   Signs and advertising display materials;
   (NN)   Telephone and telegraph technical apparatus (manufacturing and
assembly);
   (OO)   Temperature controls (fabrication and assembly);
   (PP)   Trade schools;
   (QQ)   Welding supply;
   (RR)   Wholesale business facilities; and
   (SS)   All uses permitted in the I-1 District.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.173 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Other manufacturing, processing, storage, or commercial use determined
by the Planning Commission to be of the same general character as the permitted
uses above in §
154.172, and found not to be obnoxious, unhealthful, or offensive by reason of
the potential emission or transmission of noise, oxidation, smoke, dust, odors,
toxic or noxious matter, or glare of heat;
   (B)   Freight terminals; and
   (C)   Planned unit developments as regulated by §
154.045.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.174 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Industrial buildings and structures for a use accessory to the
principle use, but shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor area of the
principle use;
   (B)   Off-street parking as regulated by §§
154.295 through
154.307, but not including semi-trailer trucks;
   (C)   Off-street loading as regulated by §§
154.295 through
154.307; and
   (D)   Fencing, screening, and landscaping, as permitted and regulated by §
154.254.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.175 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Every individual lot, site, or tract shall have an area of not less
than one-half acre.
   (B)   Every lot or tract shall have a width of not less than 100 feet
abutting a public right-of-way.
   (C)   All planned unit developments shall only be permitted on an area of at
least two acres.
   (D)   There shall be a required minimum 10% reservation of the total lot
area for landscaping use. The landscaping shall conform, in design and
appearance, with the overall development plan as approved by the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.176 FRONT, SIDE, REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard, having a depth of not less than 35
feet between the building and the street right-of-way line, to be devoted
exclusively to landscaping, except for necessary points of access.
      (2)   When off-street parking is to occur in the front yard area, the
front yard requirement shall be that the provisions of §§
154.295 through
154.307 are complied with.
   (B)   Side yards. There shall be two side yards, one on each side of a
building. Each side yard shall be not less than ten feet in width.
   (C)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard not less than 25 feet in depth.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.177 TRANSITIONAL YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   When any lot line coincides with a lot line of an adjacent residential
district, the setback shall be at least 30 feet.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.178 MAXIMUM GROUND COVERAGE.
   The sum total of the ground area covered by all structures shall not exceed
60% of the zoning lot on which the structures are located.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.179 MAXIMUM GROUND FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   In the I-2 District, the FAR shall not exceed one and one-half.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.180 BUILDING DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   On all walls, at least 25% of the entire exterior wall surface, but
not less than three feet of the entire exterior wall surface measured from the
ground up, shall be constructed of one of the following materials:
         (a)   Face brick;
         (b)   Rock face block;
         (c)   Cementitious siding;
         (d)   Natural stone;
         (e)   Glass;
         (f)   Masonry stucco;
         (g)   Synthetic stucco;
         (h)   Waynes coating; and
         (i)   Other comparable or superior material as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Buildings may be constructed of primarily one of the materials
listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(h) above if the design exceeds the
intent of the design and construction standards.
   (B)   Accent materials. Wood and metal may be used as accent materials,
provided that they are appropriately integrated into the overall building
design, and not situated in areas that will be subject to physical or
environmental damage.
   (C)   Exceptions. The following exception is permitted: The 25% of the
exterior wall surface, and/or the three feet of exterior wall surface measured
from the ground up, does not include doors, doorways, or windows.
   (D)   Additions and alterations. All subsequent additions and alterations
constructed after the erection of an original building, or buildings, shall be
of the same materials as those used in the original building, and shall be
designed in a manner conforming to the original architectural concept and
general appearance. These provisions shall not prevent the city to require
upgrading of the quality of materials used in a remodeling or expansion
program.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.181 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   It is the intent of this section to provide that the industry and related
activities shall be established and maintained with proper appearance from
streets and adjoining properties, and to provide that each permitted use shall
be a good neighbor to adjoining properties by the control of the following.
   (A)   Noise.
      (1)   General. Noise shall be measured on any property line of the tract
on which the operation is located. Noise shall be muffled so not to become
objectionable due to intermittent beat, frequency, shrillness, or intensity. At
the property line, the sound pressure level of noise radiated continuously from
a facility shall not exceed the values given in division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   Sound-pressure levels. Maximum permissible sound-pressure levels of
specified points of measurement for noise radiated continuously from a
facility:
Band Cycles per Second (frequency) Maximum Permitted Sound Level (decibels)
Band Cycles per Second (frequency) Maximum Permitted Sound Level (decibels)
20-75                              72
75-150                             67
150-300                            59
300-600                            52
600-1,200                          46
1,200-2,400                        40
2,400-4,800                        34
Over 4,800                         32   
 
   (B)   Odor. No activity or operation shall cause, at any time, the discharge
of toxic, noxious, or odorous matter beyond the limits of the immediate site
where it is located in the concentrations as to be obnoxious or otherwise
detrimental to, or endanger, the public health, welfare, comfort, or safety, or
cause injury to property or business.
   (C)   Glare. Glare, whether direct or reflected, such as from floodlights,
spotlights, or high temperature processes, and as differentiated from general
illumination, shall not be visible beyond the site of origin at any property
line.
   (D)   Exterior lighting. Any lights used for exterior illuminations shall be
directed away from adjacent properties.
   (E)   Smoke, dust, fumes, or gases. Every operation shall conform to local
standards.
   (F)   Hazard. Every operation shall be carried on in accordance with local
fire and safety codes.
   (G)   Water supply. The design and construction of water supply facilities
and water supply source shall be in accordance with local and state Department
of Health standards and requirements.
   (H)   Waste. All sewage and industrial wastes shall be treated and disposed
in the manner as to comply with the State Department of Health standards and
requirements, and local codes.
   (I)   Compliance. In order to assure compliance with the performance
standards set forth above, the Planning Commission may require the owner or
operator of any permitted use to make the investigations and tests, as may be
required, to show adherence to the performance standards.
   (J)   Additions. All subsequent additions and outbuildings constructed after
the erection of an original building, or buildings, shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.182 REGULATIONS ON SCREENING.
   All principal and conditional uses, except business signs, which are
situated within 50 feet of residential districts, shall be screened and
buffered from the district by a wall and separation of open space, which shall
have a minimum depth of 30 feet, and shall include a required fence or
vegetative screening of not less than seven feet in height above the level of
residential districts property at the district boundary. Walls or fences of
lesser heights, or planting screens, may be permitted by the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals if there is a finding that the nature, or extent, of the
use being screened is that a lesser degree of screen will as adequately promote
and protect the use and enjoyment of the properties within the adjacent
residential district, or there is a finding that a screening of the type
required by this chapter would interfere with the provision of adequate amounts
of light and air to same the properties. Loading docks in the industrial
district shall be screened so as not to be visible from any public street
right-of-way within a residential district. All required screening devices
shall be designed so that they are architecturally harmonious with the
principal structures on the site, and they shall be properly maintained so as
not to become unsightly, hazardous, or less opaque than when originally
constructed.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
GENERAL BUSINESS, INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (GB-I)
§ 154.195 PURPOSE.
   The General Business, Industrial District is designed and intended to
promote the development of a combination of commercial uses and industrial
uses. The district is established to provide exemplary standards of development
for commercial and industrial uses that prefer to be located in choice or
strategic sites.
(Ord. 222, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 154.196 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Any use not enclosed, including storage, manufacturing, and assembly, shall
be subject to those performance standards set forth in §
154.207, and regulations set forth by §
154.208.
(Ord. 222, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 154.197 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   All permitted uses allowed in a (GBD) General Business District (§
154.122);
   (B)   All permitted uses allowed in a (I-1) Limited Industrial District (§
154.147); and
   (C)   All permitted uses allowed in a (I-2) General Industrial District (§
154.172).
(Ord. 222, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 154.198 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted:
   (A)   Adult uses;
   (B)   Any drive-in type establishments, not including theaters;
   (C)   Any use other than those enumerated as permitted uses, intended to
provide amusement on the payment of a fee, including, but not limited to, water
slides, golf ranges, raceway (go carts), roller skating rink, and mini-golf
parks;
   (D)   Auto service station;
   (E)   Community or convention center;
   (F)   Convenience food establishments;
   (G)   Freight terminals;
   (H)   Other manufacturing, processing, servicing, production, storage, or
commercial use, determined by the Planning Commission, to be of the same
general character as the permitted and conditional uses, and conform with the
purpose and performance standards set forth in this district;
   (I)   Planned unit developments as regulated by this section and §§
154.220 through
154.223;
   (J)   Sports arena or stadium; and
   (K)   Towers.
(Ord. 222, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 154.199 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses in the GB-I District:
   (A)   Commercial, business, and industrial buildings and structures for a
use accessory to the principle use, but shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor
area of the principle use;
   (B)   Off-street parking as regulated by §§
154.295 through
154.307, but not including semi-trailer trucks;
   (C)   Off-street loading as regulated by §§
154.295 through
154.307; and
   (D)   Fencing, screening, and landscaping, as permitted and regulated by §
154.254.
(Ord. 222, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 154.200 ADULT USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish provisions for
the opportunity, as well as control of, adult uses within the city.
   (B)   General provisions. Adult uses, as defined in this chapter shall be
subject to the following general provisions:
      (1)   Activities classified as obscene, as defined by M.S. § 617.241, as
it may be amended from time to time, are not permitted and are prohibited;
      (2)   Adult uses, either principal or accessory, shall be prohibited from
locating in any building which is also used for residential purposes;
      (3)   Adult uses, either principal or accessory, shall be prohibited from
locating in any building which is also licensed to sell intoxicating liquor,
non-intoxicating malt liquor, or wine; and
      (4)   An adult use, which does not qualify as an adult use accessory,
shall be classified as an adult use principal.
   (C)   Adult uses principal.
      (1)   Adult use principal shall be located at least 300 radial feet, as
measured in a straight line from the closest point of the property line of the
building upon which the adult use principal is located, to the property line of
any of the following:
         (a)   Residentially zoned property;
         (b)   A licensed day care center;
         (c)   A public or private educational facility classified as an
elementary, junior high, or senior high school;
         (d)   A public library;
         (e)   A public park;
         (f)   Another adult use principal;
         (g)   An on-sale liquor establishment; or
         (h)   Any church, synagogue, or other principal place of worship of
any duly organized religious organization.
      (2)   Adult use principal activities, as defined by this chapter, shall
be classified as one use. No two or more adult uses principal shall be located
in the same building or upon the same property, and each use shall be subject
to this chapter.
      (3)   Adult use principal activities, as defined by this chapter, shall
be allowed only upon property zoned in the General Business Industrial District
(GB-I).
   (D)   Adult uses accessory.
      (1)   Adult use accessory shall:
         (a)   Comprise no more than 10% of the floor area of the establishment
in which it is located, or shall comprise an area no greater than 100 square
feet of floor area in which it is located, whichever is smaller;
         (b)   Comprise no more than 20% of the gross receipts of the subject
business operation at the subject location; and
         (c)   Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise.
      (2)   Adult use accessory shall be restricted from, and prohibit access
to, minors by the physical separation of the items from areas of general public
access.
         (a)   Movie rentals. Display areas shall be restricted from general
view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in
clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for the operation.
         (b)   Magazines. Publications classified or qualifying as adult uses
shall be covered with a wrapper or other means to prevent display of any
material other than the publication title.
         (c)   Other use. Adult use accessory activities not specifically cited
shall comply with the intent of this section subject to the approval of the
City Council.
      (3)   Adult use accessory shall be prohibited from both internal and
external advertising and signing of adult materials and products.
   (E)   Non-conforming adult use, principal or accessory. 
      (1)   Adult uses which are classified as legal, non-conforming uses may
continue in accordance with the provision of this section, except that any non-
conforming use shall be terminated and become illegal 60 days after the
adoption of this section. To the extent possible, the city shall attempt to
identify all the uses which become classified as non-conforming under the
provisions of this division (E), and shall notify the property owners and
operators of the uses, in writing, of the change in status and the terms and
conditions which apply. The owner of any property on which an adult use is
located may apply to the Council for an extension of the termination date.
      (2)   Any application shall be in writing and be received by the city no
later than 60 days upon adoption of this section. Failure to submit a timely
extension application shall constitute a waiver of the right to request an
exception if, upon the Council’s determination, the applicant demonstrates that
the amortization period is an unreasonable burden upon the business and does
not allow adequate time to recover a reasonable return upon the business
investment. The applicant shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate
hardship with the established termination date and also the time required for
an extension. In making its decision, the Council may consider any factor
relevant to the issues, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   The degree of magnitude of threat to the public health, safety,
and general welfare posed by the secondary impacts of the operation;
         (b)   The length of time that the adult use has been operating;
         (c)   The ease by which the property could be converted to a
conforming use;
         (d)   The nature and character of the surrounding neighborhood;
         (e)   The value and condition of the improvements on the property;
         (f)   The amount of the applicant’s investment in the business;
         (g)   The amount of investment already realized; and
         (h)   The cost of relocating the adult use.
   (F)   Sign restrictions. Adult use principal shall adhere to the following
signing regulations in order to protect children from exposure to lurid signs
and materials, and in order to preserve the value of property surrounding adult
use businesses. The following sign regulations shall apply to all adult use
businesses in the city, notwithstanding any other provision of this section.
      (1)   All signs shall be flat wall signs. No signs shall be free
standing, located on the roof, or contain any flashing lights, moving elements,
or electronically or mechanically changing messages.
      (2)   The amount of allowable sign area shall be one square foot of sign
area per foot of lot frontage on a street not to exceed 80 square feet for the
total of all signs. The total number of signs on the building shall be two.
      (3)   No merchandise, photos, or pictures of the products or
entertainment on the premises shall be displayed in window areas or any area
where they can be viewed from the outside of the building.
      (4)   No signs shall be placed in any window. A one square foot sign may
be placed on the door to state the hours of operation and admittance to adults
only.
      (5)   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the type of business which is being conducted.
      (6)   Sign messages shall not contain material classified as advertising.
(Ord. 230, passed 4-6-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.201 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Every individual lot, site, or tract shall have an area of not less
than one-half acre.
   (B)   Every lot or tract shall have a width of not less than 100 feet
abutting a public right-of-way.
   (C)   All planned unit developments shall only be permitted on an area of at
least two acres.
   (D)   There shall be a required minimum 10% reservation of the total lot
area for landscaping use. The landscaping shall conform, in design and
appearance, with the overall development plan as approved by the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 222, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 154.202 FRONT, SIDE, REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard. 
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 35 feet
between building and the street right-of-way line to be devoted exclusively to
landscaping, except for necessary points of access.
      (2)   When off-street parking is to occur in the front yard area, the
front yard requirements shall be that the provisions of §§
154.295 through
154.307 are complied with.
   (B)   Side yards. There shall be two side yards, one on each side of the
building. Each side yard shall not be less than ten feet in width.
   (C)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard not less than 25 feet in depth
from the building to the rear lot line.
(Ord. 222, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 154.203 TRANSITIONAL YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   When any lot line coincides with a lot line of an adjacent residential
district, the setback shall be at least 30 feet.
(Ord. 222, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 154.204 MAXIMUM GROUND COVERAGE.
   The sum total of the ground area covered by all structures shall not exceed
65% of the zoning lot on which the structures are located.
(Ord. 222, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 154.205 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   Building heights permitted are two and one-half stories, but not exceeding
35 feet.
(Ord. 222, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 154.206 BUILDING DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   On all walls, at least 25% of the entire exterior wall surface, but
not less than three feet of the entire exterior wall surface measured from the
ground up, shall be constructed of one of the following materials:
         (a)   Face brick;
         (b)   Rock face block;
         (c)   Cementitious siding;
         (d)   Natural stone;
         (e)   Glass;
         (f)   Masonry stucco;
         (g)   Synthetic stucco;
         (h)   Waynes coating; and
         (i)   Other comparable or superior material as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Buildings may be constructed of primarily one of the materials
listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(h) above if the design exceeds the
intent of the design and construction standards.
   (B)   Accent materials. Wood and metal may be used as accent materials,
provided that they are appropriately integrated into the overall building
design, and not situated in areas that will be subject to physical or
environmental damage.
   (C)   Exception. The following exception is permitted: The 25% of the
exterior wall surface, and/or the three feet of exterior wall surface measured
from the ground up, does not include doors, doorways, or windows.
   (D)   Additions and alterations. All subsequent additions and alterations
constructed after the erection of an original building, or buildings, shall be
of the same materials as those used in the original building, and shall be
designed in a manner conforming to the original architectural concept and
general appearance. These provisions shall not prevent the city to require
upgrading of the quality of materials used in a remodeling or expansion
program.
(Ord. 240, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 154.207 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   It is the intent of this section to provide that businesses, industries, and
related activities shall be established and maintained with proper appearance
from streets and adjoining properties, and to provide that each permitted use
shall be a good neighbor to adjoining properties by the control of the
following.
   (A)   Noise.
      (1)   General. Noise shall be measured on any property line of the tract
on which the operation is located. Noise shall be muffled so not to become
objectionable due to intermittent beat, frequency, shrillness, or intensity. At
the property line, the sound pressure level of noise radiated continuously from
a facility shall not exceed the values given in division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   Sound-pressure levels. Maximum permissible sound-pressure levels of
specified points of measurement for noise radiated continuously from a
facility:
Band Cycles per Second (frequency) Maximum Permitted Sound Level (decibels)
Band Cycles per Second (frequency) Maximum Permitted Sound Level (decibels)
20-75                              72
75-150                             67
150-300                            59
300-600                            52
600-1,200                          46
1,200-2,400                        40
2,400-4,800                        34
Over 4,800                         32
 
   (B)   Odor. No activity or operation shall cause, at any time, the discharge
of toxic, noxious, or odorous matter beyond the limits of the immediate site
where it is located in the concentrations as to be obnoxious or otherwise
detrimental to, or endanger, the public health, welfare, comfort, or safety, or
cause injury to property or business.
   (C)   Glare. Glare, whether direct or reflected, such as from floodlights,
spotlights, or high temperature processes, and as differentiated from general
illumination, shall not be visible beyond the site of origin at any property
line.
   (D)   Exterior lighting. Any lights used for exterior illuminations shall be
directed away from adjacent properties.
   (E)   Smoke, dust, fumes, or gases. Every operation shall conform to local
standards.
   (F)   Hazard. Every operation shall be earned on in accordance with local
and state Department of Health standards and requirements.
   (G)   Water supply. The design and construction of water supply facilities
and water supply source shall be in accordance with local and state Department
of Health standards and requirements.
   (H)   Waste. All sewage and industrial wastes shall be treated and disposed
in the manner as to comply with local and state Department of Health standards
and requirements, and local codes.
   (I)   Compliance. In order to assure compliance with the performance
standards set forth above, the Planning Commission may require the owner or
operator of any permitted use to make the investigations and tests, as may be
required, to show adherence to the performance standards.
   (J)   Additions. All subsequent additions and outbuildings constructed after
the erection of an original building, or buildings, shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 222, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 154.208 REGULATIONS ON SCREENING.
   All principal and conditional uses, except business signs, which are
situated within 50 feet of residential districts, shall be screened and
buffered from the district by a wall and separation of open space which shall
have a minimum depth of 30 feet, and shall include a required fence or
vegetative screening of not less than seven feet in height above the level of
residential districts property at the district boundary. Walls or fences of
lesser heights, or planting screens, may be permitted by the City Council if
there is a finding that the nature or extent of the use being screened is a
lesser degree of screen will, as adequately, promote and protect the use and
enjoyment of the properties within residential districts, or there is a finding
that a screening of the type required by this chapter would interfere with the
provision of adequate amounts of light and air to same the properties. Loading
docks in the GB-I District shall be screened so as not to be visible from any
public street right-of-way within a residential district. All required
screening devices shall be designed so that they are architecturally harmonious
with the principal structures on the site, and they shall be properly
maintained so as not to become unsightly, hazardous, or less opaque than when
originally constructed.
(Ord. 222, passed 6-3-2003)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (PUD)
§ 154.220 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the PUD (or Planned Unit Development) District is to permit
great flexibility in the use and design of structures and land in situations
where modification of specific provisions of this subchapter will not be
contrary to its intent and purpose, or significantly inconsistent with the
planning on which it is based, and will not be harmful to the neighborhood in
which the districts occur.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.221 PERMITTED, ACCESSORY, AND CONDITIONAL USES.
   Permitted, accessory, and conditional uses within the PUD District shall be
based upon the PUD proposal.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.222 LOT AREA REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be applied to land on one or more
acres in size.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.223 PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Preliminary development plan.
      (1)   The applicant requesting a planned unit development shall first
submit a preliminary development plan in accordance with the procedures for
amendments set forth and regulated by §§
154.380 through
154.383.
      (2)   The preliminary development plan shall consist of location and
preliminary site maps, including maps and/or statements describing proposals
suggested for land use, parking, drainage, utilities, and other additional data
required by the Planning Commission or City Council.
   (B)   Final development plan.
      (1)   Within one year from the date of City Council approval of the
preliminary development plan, the applicant shall submit a final development
plan to the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The final development plan shall include:
         (a)   Complete site development plans;
         (b)   Complete landscaping plans (where necessary);
         (c)   Complete parking and circulation plans;
         (d)   Complete drainage and other utility systems plans;
         (e)   Preliminary architectural floor plans; and
         (f)   Additional data as required by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall review the final development plan to
assure consistency with the approved preliminary development plan. The Planning
Commission shall make a recommendation for approval or disapproval, with
conditions and reasons thereof, to the City Council. In case the plat is
disapproved, the applicant shall be notified, in writing, of the reason for the
disapproval, and what requirements are necessary to meet the approval of the
Commission.
      (4)   The final development plan, together with the recommendations of
the Planning Commission, shall be submitted to the City Council at its next
regularly scheduled meeting. If accepted, the final development plan shall be
approved by resolution, including acceptance of all agreements for basic
improvements, public dedication, and other requirements, as indicated by the
City Council. If denied, the reasons for the refusal shall be set forth in the
proceedings of the Council and reported to the applicant.
   (C)   Variances. Requests for variances may be approved when consistent with
the purpose of this division (C). All approved final development plans, which
include the platting or replatting of property within the PUD, shall be filed
and recorded with the County Recorder’s office. Failure to do so within one
year of Council’s final approval shall result in the requiring of a new
preliminary development plan, according with the procedures set forth in this
section, to ensure compliance with any new requirements.
   (D)   Approval. Upon approval of the PUD, the Zoning Administrator shall
record the PUD District onto the zoning map and designate the district as PUD-
1. Thereafter, future approved PUD Districts shall be designated in sequential
order, for example, PUD-2, PUD-3, PUD-4, and the like.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
WETLAND SYSTEMS DISTRICT (W)
§ 154.235 PURPOSE.
   The Wetlands Systems District is established relating to low lands, marshes,
wetlands, drainages, water bodies, and watercourses regulating alteration and
development of the lands, and providing for the issuance of permits therefor,
and specifically, to:
   (A)   Reduce danger to the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of
the city by protecting surface and groundwater supplies from impairment, which
results from incompatible land uses and alterations, and by providing safe and
sanitary drainage;
   (B)   Restrict and control land development so it will not impede the flow
of floodwater, or cause danger to life or property;
   (C)   Designate suitable land uses that are compatible with the preservation
of the natural vegetation and marshes, which are a principal factor in the
maintenance of constant rates of water flow through the year, and which sustain
many species of wildlife and plant growth;
   (D)   Regulate runoff of surface waters from developed areas to prevent
pollutants such as motor oils, sand, salt, and other foreign materials from
being carried directly into the nearest natural stream, lake, or other public
or private waters;
   (E)   Regulate the alteration of wetland systems to prevent excessive
sediment pollution, increased and rapid water runoff, excessive nutrient runoff
pollution, and to maintain the aesthetic appearance of the wetlands; and
   (F)   Prevent the development of structures in areas which will adversely
affect the public passage and use of creeks, marshes, lowlands, and
watercourses within the city.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.236 DISTRICT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The W (or Wetland Systems) District shall be applied to, and super-
imposed upon, the zoning districts contained herein, existing or amended by the
text and map of this chapter. The regulations and requirements imposed by the
Wetland Systems District shall be in addition to those established for the
district which jointly apply. Under the joint application of districts, the
more restrictive requirements shall apply.
   (B)   The Wetland Systems District within the city is defined and
established to include those areas, which include any watercourse, natural
drainage system, waterbody, or wetland, that may be subject to periodic
flooding, overflow, or seasonally high water tables. The district boundary
lines shall be established at the edge of the aforementioned areas as depicted
on the “Wetland Systems Map” and interpreted by the Zoning Administrator. The
Wetland Systems Map is based upon geographical, hydrological, and surficial
geological data obtained from the United States Department of Agriculture Soil
Conservations Service and field surveys. These specific soils and areas are
characterized as unsuitable for development due to their poor drainage
qualities, flooding proneness, poor texture, high water table depth, and
general organic content.
   (C)   The Department of Natural Resources, Corp. of Engineers, and the
County Engineer have authority over, and are responsible for, all wetland
areas.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.237 PERMITTED USES.
   The following operations and vises are permitted in the Wetland Systems
District as a matter of right, subject to any other applicable code, ordinance,
or law:
   (A)   Grazing, farming, nurseries, gardening, and harvesting of crops;
   (B)   Sustained yield forestry and tree farms;
   (C)   Conservation of soil vegetation, water, fish, and wildlife;
   (D)   Scientific research and educational activities that teach principles
of ecology and conservation;
   (E)   Leisure activities such as hiking, nature studies, canoeing, boating,
camping, fishing, horseback riding, and general outdoor recreation, including
play and sporting areas, that are not inconsistent with the intent of this
subchapter; and
   (F)   Essential services.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.238 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   For lakes, ponds, or flowages, no structure, except boat houses, piers, and
docks, shall be placed at an elevation that the lowest floor, including the
basement floor, is less than three feet above the highest known water level. In
those instances where sufficient data on known high water levels are not
available, the elevation of the line of permanent shoreland vegetation shall be
used as the estimated high water elevation. When fill is required to meet this
elevation, the fill shall be allowed to stabilize, and construction shall not
begin until the property has been inspected by the Zoning Administrator. Cut
slopes shall be a maximum of 1:1, or 100%; fill slope 3:1 or 30%; and
construction slope 5:1, or 20%.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
DESIGN SPECIFIC ACTIONS
§ 154.250 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish general development standards
to assure compatible land uses, to prevent blight and deterioration, and to
enhance the health, safety, and general welfare of the city.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.251 DWELLING UNIT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No cellar, basement, garage, tent, or accessory building shall, at any
time, be used as an independent residence or dwelling unit, temporarily or
permanently, except allowed as a conditional use as set forth and regulated by
§§
154.380 through
154.383.
   (B)   Tents, play houses, or similar structures may be used for play or
recreational purposes.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.252 BUILDING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to build new or improve existing buildings shall
submit to the Zoning Administrator information on the location, and dimensions
of the existing and proposed buildings, location of easements crossing the
property encroachments, and any other information which may be necessary to
ensure conformance to city ordinances.
   (B)   All buildings shall be so placed so that they will not obstruct future
streets which may be constructed by the city in conformity with existing
streets, and according to the system and standards employed by the city.
   (C)   Except in the case of planned unit developments, as provided for in §§
154.220 through
154.223, not more than one principle building shall be located in a lot. The
words “principle building” shall be given their common, ordinary meaning; in
case of doubt, or on any questions or interpretation, the decision of the
Zoning Administrator shall be final, subject to the right of appeal to the
Planning Commission and City Council, as provided for in §§
154.395 through
154.400.
   (D)   Manufactured homes, buildings, tents, or other structures temporarily
maintained by an individual or company on the premises associated with the work
project, and used exclusively to house labor or other personnel occupied in the
work project, shall be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter, but in
no event shall the structures be on the premises for a period of time exceeding
12 months. The manufactured homes, buildings, tents, or other structures shall
be removed within 30 days from the completion of the work project.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.253 LAND RECLAMATION.
   (A)   Under this subchapter, LAND RECLAMATION is the reclaiming of land by
depositing materials so as to elevate the grade.
   (B)   All LAND RECLAMATION shall be controlled under the provisions of the
State Uniform Building Code and this chapter, and shall meet the following
minimum standards:
      (1)   The deposit of any fill shall be permitted by conditional use
permit only, in all districts;
      (2)   The smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for as short a time
as feasible;
      (3)   Temporary ground cover is used, and permanent ground cover, such as
sod, is planted;
      (4)   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment are employed;
      (5)   Fill is stabilized to accepted engineering standards;
      (6)   Final slopes for cut slopes should be a maximum of 1:1, or 100%;
fill slope 3:1 or 30%; and grade or construction slope 5:1 or 20%;
      (7)   A plan for control of egress and ingress must be approved by the
city; and
      (8)   Dust control must be provided in an acceptable manner and approved
by the city.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.254 FENCING, SCREENING, LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   No fence shall exceed four feet in height and no closer than ten feet
from the front property line, or eight feet in height in the rear yard, as
measured from the average point between the highest and lowest grade.
   (B)   No fence, screen, or structure which obstructs view shall be located
within 25 feet of any corner formed by the intersection of street or railroad
rights-of-way, as measured from the intersecting property lines.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (B) above, fences, hedges, or shrubs
less than four feet in height may be located on any part of the lot.
   (D)   In all zoning districts, all useable open space, as defined by this
chapter, shall be planted and maintained in grass, sodding, shrubs, or other
suitable vegetation or treatment.
   (E)   All screening required by the provisions of this chapter shall consist
of one of the following:
      (1)   A green belt planting strip consisting of vegetative cover of
sufficient width and density to provide an effective screen; and
      (2)   A fence constructed of masonry, brick, wood, or steel which is
compatible with surrounding structures and buildings, and sufficiently serves
as an effective screen.
   (F)   Except as provided in division (B) above, or as amended, fences shall
be set back at least one foot from the lot lines or, upon mutual consent of the
abutting property owner(s), may be placed along the lot line.
   (G)   All fences shall be constructed with a finished side facing outward.
   (H)   Every fence shall be constructed in a substantial workman-like manner,
and of substantial material suited for the purpose for which the fence is
proposed to be used. Every fence shall be maintained in a condition of
reasonable repair and shall not be allowed to become, and remain, in a
condition of disrepair or danger, or constitute a public or private nuisance.
   (I)   Material such as wire mesh, hog wire fencing, straight wire fencing,
barbed wire, or snow fencing will not be allowed.
   (J)   Permits are required for all fences. The permit fee is waived on
fences six feet and under in height.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.255 REFUSE.
   All lots within all zoning districts shall be maintained in a neat and
orderly manner. No rubbish, salvage materials, utility vehicles, vehicles or
trailers that are not licensed for public street use, junk, or miscellaneous
refuse shall be openly stored, or kept in the open, when the same is construed
by the City Council to be a menace or nuisance to the public health, safety, or
general welfare of the city, or to have a depressing influence upon property
values in the area.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.256 VISION CLEARANCE AT CORNERS, CURB CUTS, RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   Notwithstanding any part of this subchapter, or any permit or variance
granted, no structure, vehicle, vegetation, fence, sign, building, or any
obstacle, or any portion thereof, shall be placed or retained in a manner to
constitute a traffic hazard or obstruct the vision clearance of corners, curb
cuts, or railroad, crossings.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.257 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All uses shall comply with all federal, state, and local pollution and
nuisance laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, glare, smoke,
dust, odors, and noise. The burden of proof of compliance with appropriate
performance standards shall lie with the applicant.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.258 ADMINISTRATIVE STANDARDS.
   Whenever, in the course of administration and enforcement of this
subchapter, it is necessary or desirable to make any administrative decision,
unless other standards are provided within this subchapter, the decisions shall
be made so that the result will be consistent with the intent and purpose of
this subchapter as described in §
154.001.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.259 LIGHTING.
   Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area, sign, or
structure shall be arranged as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential properties or uses from the public streets.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.260 PUBLIC WATER ALTERATION.
   Any alteration which will change or diminish the course, current, or cross
section of a public water shall be approved by the Commissioner of the State
Department of Natural Resources, in accordance with the procedures of M.S. §
103G.245, as it may be amended from time to time. This alteration includes
construction of channels and ditches; lagoons; dredging of lake or stream
bottoms for removal of muck, silt, or weeds; and filling in the lake or stream
bed. Judicial ditches are under court jurisdiction, and the County Engineer is
the advisor.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.261 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The architectural appearance and function of any building and site shall not
be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or areas as to constitute a
blighting influence. Earth sheltered buildings are allowed if in compliance
with all other zoning provisions promulgated pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, as it
may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
YARD, AREA, BUILDING SIZE REGULATIONS
§ 154.275 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to outline minimum yard, area, and
building size requirements to be provided for each zoning district.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.276 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   No lot, yard, or other open space shall be reduced in area or dimension so
as to make the lot, yard, or open space less than a minimum required by this
subchapter, and if the existing yard or other open space as existing is less
than the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.277 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Districts. The minimum yard setback distances from the appropriate lot
line are set forth within the district provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Front yard setbacks. Where existing structures within a block have
front yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum
setback shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one
adjacent structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average of the
required setback and the setback of the adjacent structure. In no case shall
the minimum front yard setback exceed 30 feet.
   (C)   Corner lots. Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more
streets, the width of the yard along the side street shall not be less than 30
feet.
   (D)   Through lots. On a lot fronting on two parallel streets, both street
lines shall be front lot lines for applying the yard regulations of this
section.
   (E)   Rear yard with alley adjoining. In computing the depth of a rear yard
for any building where the rear line of the lot adjoins an alley, one-half the
width of the alley may be included as rear yard depth, and that the rear yard
depth actually on the lot shall be not less than 20 feet in any dwelling
district.
   (F)   Earth sheltered buildings. Computations for yard requirements shall be
based upon measurements from the exposed exterior surface of the building.
   (G)   Exceptions. The following shall not be considered an encroachment into
yard setback requirements:
      (1)   Architectural projects extending not more than three feet into a
yard area, except those indicated in division (G)(2) below;
      (2)   In rear yards, recreational and laundry drying equipment,
trellises, balconies, breezeways, open porches, detached outdoor living rooms,
garages, and air conditioning or heating equipment; and in all other yards,
terraces, steps, stoops, or similar features provided, in each that they do not
exceed above the height of the principal structure, or extend to a distance
less than ten feet from the front lot lines, and five feet from any side or
rear lot line;
      (3)   Chimneys, flues, belt courses, leader, sills, pilasters, lintels,
ornamental features, mechanical devises, cornices, eaves, gutters, and other
architectural projections, provided they do not extend more than five feet;
      (4)   Off-street parking spaces except as hereinafter regulated;
      (5)   Buildings may be excluded from side yard requirements if party
walls are utilized or if the adjacent buildings are planned to be constructed
as an integral structure and a conditional use permit is secured;
      (6)   Fences are exempt from yard setback requirements. All fences
require a permit;
      (7)   Any variances granting increased building height shall require
setbacks from residential lots at least equal to the height;
      (8)   On any lot sloping downhill from the street, an additional 12 feet
of height may be permitted in the main building provided the lowest floor shall
not be less than ten feet below the average established property line grades
along the front of the lot. The floor of the basement shall be considered the
lowest floor and a cellar floor shall not be counted; and
      (9)   The maximum size of a porch into setback is a maximum of five feet
by five feet.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.278 LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Districts. The minimum lot area requirements are set forth within the
district provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Lot area with alley adjoining. In computing the required lot area,
one-half of the width, but not exceeding ten feet of any alley, or portion
thereof, abutting any lot line may be included as part of the lot area for the
computation.
   (C)   Lot area exception. A lot of record existing upon the effective date
of this subchapter, which does not meet the area and width requirements of this
chapter, may be utilized, provided the measure of the area and width are within
60% of the requirements of this chapter, and provided that all other provisions
of this chapter, with respect to individual septic systems and water wells, are
complied with.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.279 BUILDING SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Districts. The building size requirements are set forth within the
district provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Height exceptions. The building height limits established shall not
apply to belfries, cupolas, spires, monuments, airway beacons, radio towers,
flag poles, or smoke stacks, nor to elevators, cooling towers, water tanks,
towers, and other structures for essential services, nor to similar structures
for essential services; nor to similar structures extending above the roof of
any building and not occupying more than 25% of the area of the roof.
   (C)   Earth sheltered buildings. Computations for ground coverage shall be
based upon measurements from the exposed exterior of the building.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.280 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS; USES, EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   General statements. An accessory building shall be considered an
integral part of the principal building if it is connected to the principal
building by a structured passageway.
   (B)   Location. No detached accessory building shall be located in the front
yard.
   (C)   Height. Accessory building sidewalls shall not exceed ten feet in
height.
   (D)   Setbacks. Accessory buildings shall:
      (1)   Be located five feet or more from all lot lines of adjoining lots;
and
      (2)   Not be located within a utility easement or drainage easement.
   (E)   Size. Maximum accessory building square footage shall be:
      (1)   One thousand and eight square feet for a lot greater than, or equal
to, zero acres, and less than, or equal to, 0.59 acres;
      (2)   One thousand, two hundred square feet for a lot greater than, or
equal to, 0.60 acres, and less than, or equal to, 0.74 acres;
      (3)   One thousand, four hundred and forty square feet for a lot greater
than, or equal to, 0.75 acres; and/or
      (4)   Where residents own two or more contiguous lots, the acreage may be
combined.
   (F)   Building design standards. The architectural design and appearance of
all buildings and structures shall comply with the following standards:
      (1)   Designed to the State Building Code;
      (2)   The wall or walls that face a street must have siding of like
material to the principle structure, or consistent with residential structures.
Buildings on a corner lot must comply with §
154.277(C) on both sides of the structure that face the street;
      (3)   Metal lawn or storage sheds 120 square feet or less in floor area
shall be exempt from these standards; and
      (4)   No tarp like structures.
   (G)   Home occupations. Home occupations must be conducted entirely within a
building.
      (1)   Offices, barber shops, beauty parlors, dress shops, millinery
shops, tourist homes, music and dance schools, or similar uses, any business
with an employee other than the home owner shall require conditional use
permits.
      (2)   The occupations as architects, artists, writers, clergymen,
lawyers, teachers, dressmaking, and similar domestic crafts shall be permitted.
      (3)   When deemed appropriate, the Zoning Administrator may bring the
home occupation to the attention of the Planning Commission, at which time the
Planning Commission may hold the public hearings, request the information, or
require the conditions as deemed necessary to bring the home occupation in
compliance with the performance criteria. The Planning Commission shall make a
recommendation to the City Council for final consideration.
   (H)   Storage of solid heating fuels. The storage of solid heating fuel (for
example, coal, or firewood) shall be screened from view of adjacent residential
land uses. The screening shall be in compliance with the provisions set forth
in §
154.254.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 235, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 154.281 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Accessory buildings with sidewalls that exceed ten feet in height may be
permitted as a conditional use.
(Ord. 235, passed 11-8-2004)
OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING
§ 154.295 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the regulation of, and
design standards for, off-street parking facilities within the city, to
minimize congestion on the public right-of-way, and to maximize the safety and
general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.296 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   No provision of any section of this chapter shall be less restrictive than
those outlined in this subchapter. The off-street parking requirements and off-
street loading requirements of this subchapter shall apply within all zoning
districts, with the exception of Central Business District where no off-street
parking is required for businesses located in the CBD, except where residential
housing will be included. Off-street loading spaces are still required.
(Ord. 208, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 154.297 CALCULATING SPACE.
   (A)   Where calculations result in requiring a fractional space, any
fraction less than one-half shall be disregarded, and any fraction of one-half
or more shall require one space.
   (B)   The term FLOOR AREA, for the purpose of calculating the number of off-
street parking spaces required, shall be determined on the basis of the
exterior floor area dimensions of the building structure or use times the
number of floors minus 10%.
   (C)   Should a building or structure contain two or more types of uses, each
should be calculated separately for determining the total off-street parking
spaces required.
   (D)   The parking requirements for a use not specifically mentioned herein
shall be the same as required for a use of similar nature as determined by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.298 SITE PLAN, CRITERIA.
   (A)   Site plan. 
      (1)   Except for single-family dwellings, all applications for a building
or an occupancy permit shall be accompanied by a site plan, drawn to scale and
dimensioned, indicating the location of all off-street parking and loading
spaces in compliance with the requirements of this subchapter. The plan shall
be reviewed by the city, in accordance to the criteria developed in division
(B) below.
      (2)   The site plan should include at least the following:
         (a)   Zoning setbacks and statement of use;
         (b)   North point and scale;
         (c)   All adjacent streets and alleys;
         (d)   Sidewalks, curbs, gutters, and street trees;
         (e)   Entire ownership of lot or parcel being developed;
         (f)   Completely dimensioned parking layouts;
         (g)   All parking spaces clearly marked;
         (h)   Owner’s name and current address; and
         (i)   The type and thickness of the paving.
   (B)   Site plan criteria. Upon review by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council, the plan for off-street parking shall meet the
following site design standards:
      (1)   All off-street parking spaces shall consist of an area not less
than nine feet in width and 19 feet in length per space;
      (2)   All areas devoted for parking space and driveways shall be surfaced
with materials suitable to control dust and drainage as determined by the
Planning Commission and City Council. All parking areas shall be designed to
control surface runoff to adjacent properties either with curbing or grading
techniques;
      (3)   Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas shall be
directed away from abutting property and public right-of-way;
      (4)   No sign shall be so located as to restrict the sight, orderly
operation, and traffic movement within any parking area;
      (5)   All parking lots shall be screened and landscaped from abutting
residential and institutional uses or districts by a wall, fence, or densely-
planted compact hedge or tree cover not less than four feet, nor more than
eight in height, and be consistent with the other provisions of §
154.254; and
      (6)   The parking area shall meet the minimum design standards and number
of stalls required under this subchapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.299 REDUCTION, USE OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACE.
   Off-street parking and loading facilities provided to comply with the
provisions of this chapter shall not subsequently be reduced below the
requirements of this section. No change of use or occupancy of land, or of use
or occupancy of any building, shall be made until there is furnished sufficient
parking and loading spaces as required by this subchapter. In the case where
reconstruction enlarges bulk or floor area, or other measurable unit prescribed
in this chapter, parking and loading facilities shall be provided for that
measurable unit beyond the original type use of structure.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.300 PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT.
   No commercial vehicles or equipment exceeding 9,000 pounds gross weight
shall be parked, stored, or otherwise continued in a residential district for
more than 24 hours, unless in a completely enclosed structure, or unless they
are being used in conjunction with a legitimate service being rendered for the
benefit of the residential premises.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.301 PARKING, STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   An automotive vehicle or trailer of any kind or type, without current legal
public street operable license plates, for sale or rent, or those inoperable,
shall not be parked or stored in any residential district unless done so in a
completely enclosed building.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.302 MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the joint responsibility of the lessee and/or owner of the
principle use, uses, or building to maintain, in a neat and adequate manner,
the parking area, striping, landscaping, and screening.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.303 STALL, AISLE, DRIVEWAY DESIGN.
   (A)   Except in the case of single-family, two-family, and townhouses,
parking areas shall be designed so that circulation between parking aisles or
driveways occurs within the designated parking lot, and does not depend upon a
public street or alley, and the design does not require backing into the public
street.
   (B)   Except in the case of single-family, two-family, and townhouses,
parking areas shall comply with the following standards:
 
Angle of Parking Stall Width Stall Depth Minimum Driveway Width
0 (along curb)   9 feet      10 feet*    12 feet
30               9 feet      19 feet     11 feet
45               9 feet      21 feet     13 feet
60               9 feet      22 feet     18 feet
90               9 feet      19 feet     24 feet
Notes to table:
*   Parallel parking: 22 feet in length
 
   (C)   No curb cut access shall be located less than 40 feet from the
intersection of two or more street rights-of-way for residential uses, and 60
feet for commercial and industrial areas. This distance shall be measured from
the intersection of lot lines.
   (D)   Curb cut openings shall be a minimum of five feet from the side
property line.
   (E)   All property shall be entitled to at least one curb cut. Single-family
uses shall be limited to one curb cut access per property.
   (F)   All parking spaces shall be served by access aisle or driveway
connections to a public right-of-way.
   (G)   All parking and driveways shall be paved in cement if served by a
paved road or alley.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.304 NUMBER OF REQUIRED PARKING, LOADING SPACES.
   The following minimum number of off-street parking and loading spaces shall
be provided and maintained:
Use Number of Parking to Be Required Off-Street Loading and Unloading Spaces to
                                     Be Required
                Number of     Off-Street Loading and Unloading Spaces to Be
Use             Parking to Be Required
                Required
Commercial uses
                Six spaces,
                plus one
                space for
Animal hospital each 200
and kennels     square feet   N/A.
                of gross
                floor area
                over 10,000
                square feet.
Automobile car  Two spaces
wash            for each wash N/A.
                line.
                Three for
                each service
Automobile      stall, plus
service         one for each  N/A.
stations        attendant on
                the major
                shift.
                Five spaces   One space for each structure over 20,000 square
Bowling alley   for each lane feet in gross floor area.
                or alley.
                Four spaces
Commercial uses per 1,000     One space for the first of 10,000 square feet of
(except as      square feet   gross floor area, and one space for each
below and       retail or     additional 50,000 square feet of gross floor
above)          sales floor   area.
                area.
                One space per
                200 square
Commercial uses feet of gross
with 50% or     floor area    Same as commercial use requirements for that
more of floor   devoted to    portion used for commercial purposes; additional
area devoted to sales or      space for non-commercial uses consistent with §
storage,        service, plus 154.305.
warehouse, and/ one space per
or industry     500 square
                feet of
                storage area.
                Five spaces
Drive-in        for each 100
restaurants     square feet   N/A.
                of business
                area.
                One space for
                each 400
                square feet
Furniture,      of floor area
automobile and  for the first One space, plus one additional space for 25,000
boat sales, and 25,000 square square feet of gross floor area.
appliance sales feet, and one
                space for
                each 600
                square feet
                thereafter.
Miniature golf
course, archery Ten spaces    N/A.
range, golf     respectively.
driving range
                One space for
Motel, hotel    each dwelling N/A.
                unit.
Office          One space for One space for buildings between 30,000 and
building,       each 250      100,000 square feet of gross floor area, and one
professional    square feet   space for each additional 100,000 square feet of
offices, banks  of gross      gross floor area.
                floor area.
Restaurants and One space for
other food      each four
dispensing      seats, plus   One for each structure over 10,000 square feet of
establishments, one for each  gross floor area.
except drive-in two
restaurants     employees.
                One space for
Skating rink or each 200
dance hall      square feet   N/A.
                of gross
                floor area.
                One space per
Undertaking     50 square     N/A.
establishments  feet of gross
                floor area.
Industrial Uses
                One space for
                each employee
Manufacturing   on the major
and research,   shift, or one One space for each 50,000 square feet of gross
experimental or space for     floor area.
testing         each 400
stations        square feet,
                whichever is
                greater.
                One space for
Warehousing and each employee
wholesale       on the major  One space for each 100,000 square feet, or one as
business        shift, plus   determined by the Planning Commission.
establishments  space for
                each vehicle.
Institutional Uses
                One space for
Auditorium,     each four
stadium,        permanent
gymnasium,      seats in the
community       largest place
centers, and    of assembly,  One for each structure over 100,000 square feet
religious       plus one      of gross floor area.
institution     space for
(public or      each 250
private)        square feet
                of gross
                office area.
                One for each
Hospitals, rest four beds,
homes, nursing  plus one      One space for each 100,000 square feet of gross
homes, and the  space per two floor area.
like            employees on
                the major
                shift.
Schools,        Two spaces    One space for each 100,000 square feet of gross
elementary and  per           floor area.
junior high     classroom.
                One space per
Schools, high   employee,     One space for each 100,000 square feet of gross
schools         plus one per  floor area.
                ten students.
Residential Uses
                A half space
Elderly housing per dwelling  N/A.
                unit.
                One and one-
Multiple family half space    N/A.
and townhomes   per dwelling
                unit.
Single-family   Two spaces
and two-family  per dwelling  N/A.
                unit.
 
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.305 JOINT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Provisions of joint parking areas for several uses within the same
block or same vicinity is permissible, provided that the number of stalls
required shall be the sum of the individual requirements for those uses, upon
application and approval by the City Council, following review of the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   The City Council may, upon receiving a recommendation from the
Planning Commission, approve a conditional use permit for one or more
businesses to provide the required off-street parking facilities by joint use
of one or more sites where the total number of spaces provided are less than
the sum of the total required for each business, if the following conditions
are satisfactorily met:
      (1)   The building or use for which the application is being made to
utilize the off-street parking facilities provided by another building or use
shall be located within 300 feet of the parking facilities;
      (2)   The applicant shall show that there is no substantial conflict in
the operating hours of the two buildings or uses for which joint uses of off-
street parking facilities is proposed; and
      (3)   The provisions and intent of this subchapter are considered and
satisfactorily met.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.306 OFF-STREET LOADING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Loading spaces required under this subchapter shall be at least 50
feet long and 12 feet wide. The regulations of this section are not applicable
in the CBD District.
   (B)    Every lot used for commercial or industrial purposes, and having a
building, or buildings, with a total floor area of at least 10,000 square feet,
and every lot used for office or research purposes on which there is a
building, or buildings, having a total floor area of at least 20,000 square
feet, shall be provided with an off-street loading space.
   (C)   An additional off-street loading space shall be required for lots used
for commercial or industrial purposes where the floor area of all buildings
exceeds 100,000 square feet.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.307 CENTRAL LOADING.
   Central loading facilities may be substituted for loading berths on the
individual zoning lots, provided the following conditions are fulfilled.
   (A)   Each zoning lot served shall have direct access to the central loading
area without crossing streets or alleys at grade.
   (B)   Total berths provided shall meet the requirements based on the sum of
the several types of uses served. Area of types of uses may be totaled before
computing the number of loading berths.
   (C)   No zoning lot served shall be more than 500 feet from the central
loading zone area.
   (D)   The tunnel or ramp connecting the central loading area with the zoning
lot served shall not be less than seven feet in width, and have a clearance of
not less than seven feet.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
SIGNS
§ 154.320 PURPOSE.
   The provisions of this subchapter are intended to encourage an opportunity
for effective communication, and a sense of concern for the visual amenities on
the part of those designing, displaying, or otherwise utilizing needed
communicative media of the types regulated by this subchapter, while at the
same time assuring that the public is not endangered, annoyed, or distracted by
unsafe, disorderly, indiscriminate, or unnecessary use of the communicative
facilities.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.321 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to erect,
maintain, repair, alter, or relocate, within the city, any sign as defined in
this subchapter without first obtaining a permit to do so, and making payment
of the permit fee, if applicable. If a sign is erected unlawfully, a
representative of the city may remove the sign immediately without
notification. The representative will then attempt to notify the owner to the
best of his or her ability.
(Ord. 208, passed 11-5-2001) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.322 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Each application for a permit under this subchapter shall be submitted
to the city and may include a permit fee which shall be set by resolution by
the City Council.
   (B)   Each application shall state, or have attached thereto, the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the person for whom the sign
is being erected, or the name of the person, firm, corporation, or association
erecting structure;
      (2)   A complete description of the sign and a sketch showing its size,
manner of construction, and the other information, as shall be necessary, to
inform the city of the kind, size, material, and construction of the sign,
including the proposed location of the sign and the location of building,
structure, or lot to which, or upon which, the sign is to be attached or
erected;
      (3)   Position of the sign and other advertising structure in relation to
nearby buildings or structures, and lighting details;
      (4)   Application for billboards shall show location of building and
structures, and lighting details;
      (5)   At the request of the city, two blueprints or ink drawings of the
plans and specifications, and method of construction and attachment to the
building or in the ground, and any additional information as deemed necessary
by the city;
      (6)   The city may waive requirements for technical information specified
above where the information is not necessary to the determination of
compliance; and
      (7)   If a sign authorized by permit has not been installed within six
months after the date of issuance, the permit shall become null and void.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.323 PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the permit holder, and of the owner
and lessee of the property and structure upon which any sign is located, to:
      (1)   Keep the ground around any sign free of weeds and litter;
      (2)   Immediately repair or remove any sign or sign structure which
becomes unsafe, in a state of disrepair, insecure, or a menace to the public
following written notice of the condition from the city;
      (3)   All permanent signs shall comply with the maintenance sections of
the State Building Code, as it may be amended; and
      (4)   When electrical signs are installed, the installation shall be
subject to the State Building Code, as it may be amended.
   (B)   (1)   Except in the Central Business District, no sign or sign
structure shall be placed on, or protrude over, the public right-of-way, except
wall (maximum protrusion 12 inches), canopy, awning, or marquee structures
shall not exceed 12 inches in height. Canopy, awning, or marquee structures and
signs shall be setback three feet from the curbline.
      (2)   In the Central Business District, no sign structure shall be placed
on the public right-of-way. All signs must be set back three feet from the
curbline, and meet all other zoning regulations.
   (C)   All signs located over the public right-of-way, or over a public or
private access route shall be located a minimum of eight feet over walking
surfaces, and 17 feet and four inches over vehicle-related access routes, based
on the State Building Code Chapter 32, and Highway Department Regulations.
   (D)   The temporary use of search lights and similar devices shall require a
permit. The permit shall be prominently displayed during the period of
validity.
   (E)   All height restrictions on signs shall include the height of the sign
structure, and be measured from the nearest finished grade.
   (F)   Any sign now or hereafter existing which no longer advertises or
identifies a bona fide business conducted, or a service rendered, or a product
sold, shall be removed by the owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use
and/or control of the building or structure upon which the signs may be found,
within ten days after written notice from the city.
   (G)   The top edge of a wall sign shall not extend above the main level of
the roof, except where there is a mansard roof, in which case the sign shall
then not exceed the height of the mansard.
   (H)   Where a building contains more than one business, the allowable sign
area for any single business is its portion of the gross square footage of the
building applied as a percentage to the allowable sign of the entire building.
   (I)   Permanent pylon or permanent free standing signs where permitted will
be limited to one per commercial establishment. MULTI-ESTABLISHMENT BUILDINGS
are herein defined as a single commercial establishment, except shopping
centers, and are limited to one free standing or pylon sign.
   (J)   In shopping centers, shopping center identification signs shall be
limited to locations adjacent to the major entrances, and limited to one per
abutting arterial street.
   (K)   Signs shall conform to the building setback regulations for the zoning
district in which they are located, except as may be otherwise specified in
this subchapter.
   (L)   Signs are allowable as an accessory use in all districts except where
prohibited by this subchapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 261, passed 3-3-2009)
§ 154.324 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign which purports to be, or resembles, an official traffic
control device, sign, or signal, or railroad sign or signal; or which hides
from view, or interferes in any material degree, with the effectiveness of any
traffic control device, sign, or signal, or railroad sign or signal; or which
obstructs or interferes with the driver’s or pedestrian’s view of approaching,
merging, or intersecting traffic for a distance not to exceed 500 feet;
   (B)   Signs which resemble any official marker erected by a governmental
agency, on which display words as “Stop” or “Danger”;
   (C)   Roof signs;
   (D)   Signs which contain statements, words, or pictures of an obscene,
indecent, or immoral character, or as would offend public morals or decency on
any right-of-way in the city limits, except as otherwise provided by law;
   (E)   Any sign on private land without the written consent of the owner
thereof;
   (F)   Signs which are structurally unsafe, in disrepair, or are abandoned;
   (G)   An area identification sign is not permitted in a residential
subdivision consisting of less than 20 lots. See §
154.008; and
   (H)   If a sign is not allowed as permitted in a specific zone, it is
prohibited, and no special use permit or variance is available.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.325 SIGNS REQUIRING NO PERMIT, SUBJECT TO ZONING LIMITATIONS.
   The following signs shall be permitted without a permit.
   (A)   Signs in all zoning districts.
      (1)   Campaign signs shall be removed ten days after an election, and
placed with permission of the property owner or lessee;
      (2)   Directional signs located on, above, or beside entrances or exits
to buildings or driveways which direct pedestrians, such as “Employee’s
Entrance”, “Exit Only”, or “Rest Rooms”, and provided that the signs are no
more than four square feet in area;
      (3)   Temporary signs denoting the architect, engineer, or contractor
when placed upon work under construction, provided each sign is not more than
16 square feet in area and removed upon completion of construction.
Construction signs shall not be erected before issuance of a building permit,
or remain after issuance of a certificate of occupancy. Construction signs
shall be confined to the site of the construction, alteration, or repair, and
shall be removed within two years of the date of issuance of the first building
permit, or when the particular project is completed, whichever is sooner as
determined by the Zoning Administrator/Building Inspector. One sign shall be
permitted for each major street the project abuts;
      (4)   Integral signs;
      (5)   Holiday signs;
      (6)   Real estate sale or rental sign. Signs must be removed within 14
days of the closing or rental of property. Signs may not measure more than 12
square feet in residential districts, nor more than 25 square feet in all other
districts. There shall be only one sign per premises. Corner properties and
double front lots may contain two signs, one per frontage;
      (7)   Individual property sale or rental signs. Signs must be removed
within 14 days of the closing or rental of property. Signs may not measure more
than 12 square feet in residential districts, nor more than 25 square feet in
all other districts. There shall be only one sign per premises. Corner
properties and double front lots may contain two signs, one per frontage. The
signs shall not be within, or extend over, the right-of-way line unless flat
against the structure;
      (8)   Flag of any state or nation not exceeding 80 square feet;
      (9)   Rummage/garage sale signs;
      (10)   Institutional sign up to 50 square feet;
      (11)   Signs located inside an enclosed building, and visible through a
window thereof;
      (12)   Lighter than air, inflatable devices, and/or a balloon designed
and utilized primarily to draw attention to an object, product, place,
activity, person, institution, organization, or business, allowing less than
three square feet without a permit;
      (13)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings, and date of
erection when cut into any masonry surface, or when constructed of bronze or
other non-combustible material, and attached to the building;
      (14)   Artificially lit roofs or walls, or portions thereof; and
      (15)   Wellhead protection signs may be placed within the designated area
as recommended by the Wellhead Protection Program.
   (B)   Signs in CBD, GB, I-1, I-2, and institutions in all zoning districts.
Temporary portable signs are limited to one sign per property, and must have
the written permission of the property owner.
   (C)   Signs in R-2, R-3, CBD, GB, I-1, and I-2 zoning districts.
Informational signs.
   (D)   Signs in R-2 and R-3 zoning districts. Identification signs. One
identification sign for each occupant of a premises shall not exceed three
square feet in area per surface. The sign shall not contain any advertising
information. For subdivision signs, see §
154.326(B) requiring a permit.
   (E)   Signs in CBD, GB, I-1, and I-2 zoning districts. Banners, pennants,
and holiday signs and displays should not exceed 45 square feet. Banners must
be affixed against a building or permanent structure, and are not allowed in
the Residential District.
   (F)   Signs in city park zoning districts.
      (1)   The following described signs are permitted without a sign permit.
         (a)   Any sign which the city constructs or pays to have constructed.
         (b)   The community sign shall be allowed in the city park for use by
non-profit organizations.
            1.   Guidelines for owner and users shall be established by
resolution of the City Council, from time to time, after receiving the advice
of the Park Board.
            2.   The city shall own, maintain, and control the community sign.
            3.   The Park Board shall be responsible for administration of the
community sign. The Park Board shall designate one person who will follow the
guidelines established, and oversee the placement of messages on the community
sign. Only one person shall be the contact person.
            4.   Community sign messages not permitted: Personal messages,
commercial advertising, and monopoly of the sign by one organization shall not
be permitted.
      (2)   The following described signs are permitted with a permit. A permit
application may be obtained from the Zoning Administrator.
         (a)   Special events temporary signs for non-profit organizations are
permitted, which are erected to celebrate, commemorate, or observe a civil or
religious holiday, or for a special event. The signs shall be removed from the
premises within three days following completion of the special event. The
special event signs shall not exceed four feet by eight feet in size. Total
signage shall not exceed 200 square feet.
            1.   Special event signs will be allowed in Freedom Park only, and
not allowed in Hidden Park, Pleasantview Park, the Rose Garden, nor any other
designated city park.
            2.   Special events temporary signs shall not be erected more than
15 days before the date of the special event. An extension of this time limit
may be obtained only by Planning Commission recommendation and City Council
approval.
            3.   No sign or banner may display any alcohol, tobacco, or
derogatory symbols or wording.
         (b)   Sign messages may be displayed by the city, and/or a non-profit
corporation, to advertise community interest events and which public portable
signs shall be placed upon public property. All of the public portable sign
messages shall not be displayed more than 15 days before the date of the
special event, and shall be removed within three days following the event.
         (c)   Temporary banners are permitted for special events for non-
profit organizations. For non-profit organizations, banners will be allowed
over a public street. The total of all banners shall not exceed 120 square
feet. Banners may be erected 15 days before the event, and taken down within
three days after completion of the event.
         (d)   The Building Inspector may order the removal of any sign erected
or maintained in violation of this section. Three days’ notice, in writing,
shall be given to the owner of the sign, or the person or persons who erected
the sign. Upon failure to remove the sign, the Building Official shall remove
the sign. If it appears the condition of the sign presents an immediate threat
to safety of the public, the Building Official shall remove the sign
immediately without notice. Any cost of removal incurred by the city shall be
assessed to the owner, or the person who erected the sign, or may be collected
in appropriate legal proceedings. In the event of successful legal proceedings
to collect the cost of removal hereunder, as a part of its judgment, the city
shall be entitled to judgment against the defendant-violator for its costs and
disbursements, including reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 208, passed 11-5-2001) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.326 SIGNS REQUIRING PERMIT, SUBJECT TO ZONING LIMITATIONS.
   Signs requiring electrical or structural inspection in the following zones.
   (A)   Signs in all zoning districts.
      (1)   Free standing sign;
      (2)   Governmental sign;
      (3)   Institutional sign; and
      (4)   Monument sign.
   (B)   Signs in R-1, R-2, subdivision, and PUD zoning districts. Area
identification signs are permitted.
   (C)   Signs in CBD, GB, I-1, and I-2 zoning districts.
      (1)   Motion sign;
      (2)   Projecting sign;
      (3)   Wall sign; and
      (4)   Canopy or marquee sign.
   (D)   Signs in CBD and GB zoning districts.
      (1)   Directory sign;
      (2)   Pennants on flag poles require permission from the VFW (owner of
flag holders) and East Central Electric Association (owner of poles);
      (3)   Sandwich board signs are permitted, subject to the following
regulations:
         (a)   Sandwich board signs are self-supporting, A-shaped free standing
temporary signs with only two visible sides that are situated adjacent to a
business, typically on a sidewalk, that contains commercial speech;
         (b)   The maximum area shall be nine square feet per side of sign with
the maximum height being 42 inches;
         (c)   Acceptable primary sandwich board sign materials include steel,
iron, metal, plastic, and wood. Synthetic materials, such as chalkboard and
whiteboard, are acceptable accent materials;
         (d)   Only one sandwich board sign per business shall be permitted.
Sandwich board signs shall not be placed more than six feet from the front
primary entrance of the business;
         (e)   Sandwich board signs shall be placed on the edge of sidewalks
next to the building, and shall not be placed so as to cause the width of the
sidewalk or the walk way to be reduced below four feet in width. No sign shall
be erected or maintained in a manner that prevents free ingress or egress from
any door, window, or fire escape;
         (f)   A temporary sign permit is required prior to the installation of
the sign. Only one temporary sign permit for a sandwich board sign is allowed
per business, and the permit is not transferable. If the sign is located within
the public right-of-way, business owners shall sign a disclaimer that
indemnifies the city of any liability for use of the public right-of-way;
         (g)   A sketch including dimensions, content, materials, and location
of the sandwich board sign must be attached to the permit application. The
permit application must be approved and signed by the city staff before the
sandwich board sign may be displayed. If a sign is displayed prior to obtaining
a sandwich board sign permit, the application may be denied;
         (h)   Sandwich board signs shall not be illuminated, nor shall they
contain moving parts. Attaching sandwich board signs to structures, poles,
objects, signs, and the like by means of chains, cords, rope, wire, cable, and
the like is prohibited. They shall be removed from public sidewalks if there is
any snow accumulation (the sign may not be displayed until the snow is
removed), except those located on private property. Signs shall only be
displayed during business operating hours;
         (i)   Sandwich board signs placed in violation of this division (D)(3)
will result in immediate removal of the sign, and the business’s temporary sign
permit privileges will be denied for the remainder of that year. Sandwich board
signs displayed without approved permits shall be disposed of at the owner’s
expense;
         (j)   Sandwich board signs within the public right-of-way may be moved
or removed by the city for municipal purposes (for example, code enforcement,
snow removal, traffic issues, maintenance, and the like);
         (k)   Rights-of-way along Highway 107 are under the jurisdiction of
the State Department of Transportation, or the county. The city will enforce
its own sign regulation along this street, and not those of the other agencies
or jurisdictions; and
         (l)   A sign permit is required for a sandwich board sign, but there
will be no fee for a sandwich board sign permit.
      (4)   Larger than three square feet air inflatable devices and/or
balloons require a permit, and have a time limit of 14 days.
   (E)   Signs in GB, I-1, and I-2 zoning districts. Pylon signs are permitted.
   (F)   Signs in GB and PUD zoning districts. Shopping center signs are
permitted.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 277-A, passed 11-1-2016)
§ 154.327 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The following signs shall be allowed in the indicated zoning districts, in
accordance with the permit provisions of this subchapter.
   (A)   Signs in residential districts.
      (1)   R-1 District. One non-illuminated wall or free standing sign no
more than four square feet, except institutional signs located in the R-
1 District, which shall not exceed 40 square feet, and institutional signs can
be illuminated. The location of area identification signs for subdivisions must
be identified on preliminary plats and cannot be illuminated. The size of area
identification signs is limited to 40 square feet.
      (2)   R-2 District. One sign at each entry with a maximum of two signs,
with no more than 70% of the total sign area contained in any one sign. The
total allowable sign area shall be 20 square feet for dwellings or complexes
containing from four to 20 units, and 32 square feet for dwellings or complexes
containing 21 or more units. Duplexes and triplexes are allowed one non-
illuminated wall or free standing sign no more than two square feet and one
face.
      (3)   R-3 District. One sign at each entry, with a maximum of two signs,
with no more than 70% of the total sign area contained in any one sign. Total
allowable sign area shall be 20 square feet.
   (B)   Signs in CBD and GB District.
      (1)   Businesses. No business shall place more than two signs on the
principal building in which it is located, except two or more principal wall
frontages may be allowed if each is held by the Zoning Administrator/Building
Inspector to be a separate frontage.
      (2)   Maximum signage area. 
         (a)   The maximum area for signs on a building occupied by a single
business shall be determined by taking 20% of the gross silhouette area of the
front of the building. The maximum area for signs for each business which
occupies a part of a principal building shall be determined by taking 20% of
the gross silhouette area of the store front of the business.
         (b)   The SILHOUETTE shall be defined as that area within an outline
drawing of the front of the building or store front, as may be applicable. The
same provision shall apply to a business occupying only part of a principal
building.
      (3)   Exceeding signage area. In no case shall an individual sign exceed
100 square feet in area, nor shall two or more signs be so arranged and
integrated as to cause an advertising surface over 200 square feet.
      (4)   Murals. Murals or painted wall signs are permitted, however,
written permission of the property owner is required.
      (5)   Conditional use permit request. If the size of a sign request in
the CBD or GBD Districts exceeds the maximum permitted sizes, a conditional use
permit request shall be used. Conditions for approval of the CUP require
written permission from the adjacent property owners and are based on safety
and other sign criteria as established in §
154.320.
   (C)   Signs in GBD District. Signs in GBD District are subject to division
(B) above as minimum provisions, however, the maximum requirements may be
exceeded by the following provisions.
      (1)   Combination. Combination of signs may be utilized, and shall not
exceed one pylon sign, one free standing sign, wall signs, and one canopy,
marquee, or awning sign. In no case shall the maximum allowable sign area
exceed 700 square feet.
      (2)   Pylon sign.
         (a)   A maximum of 200 square feet of area per face shall be
permitted, and a maximum height not to exceed 35 feet.
         (b)   Area, as determined by the above formula, applies to one face of
a two-faced pylon sign, and no more than two faces per pylon.
         (c)   Actual sign height is determined from lot grade, or from the
grade of the road which the sign gains its principal exposure.
      (3)   Shopping center signs. Shopping centers shall be allowed one
shopping center identification sign, not to exceed 300 square feet in area, and
35 feet in height, in addition to the allowable sign area for individual
businesses.
      (4)   Billboards. All other standards, including setbacks that are
applicable to other signs and structures, shall apply to billboards, including
the following provisions.
         (a)   Billboards shall be located so as not to obstruct any existing
business or sign.
         (b)   A billboard may not be a principal use of the property.
         (c)   The maximum height of any portion of the sign, including trim
and extensions, shall be not more than 35 feet.
         (d)   No billboard shall be erected on the roof of any building.
         (e)   Billboards are not permitted within 500 feet of residential
districts.
         (f)   No permit shall be granted for any proposed billboard if it is
within 1,500 feet of any existing billboard. EXISTING BILLBOARDS shall be
defined as any billboard located within or outside the city’s municipal
boundaries.
   (D)   Signs in I-1 and I-2 Districts. Total allowable sign area, inclusive
of free standing and pylon sign where permitted, shall not exceed 20% of the
building’s principal wall frontage. Two or more principal wall frontage shall
be allowed if each is held by the Zoning Administrator/Building Inspector to be
a separate frontage. No individual sign shall exceed 200 square feet.
      (1)   Setbacks. Permanent signs in the industrial district shall be set
back at least ten feet from a public right-of-way, except in the case of a
street that does not meet §
153.045. In that case, permanent signs shall be set back ten feet from the
recommended right-of-way for the type of road classified in §
153.045.
      (2)   Height regulations. Pylon signs shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
Free standing signs shall not exceed 12 feet in height.
      (3)   Advertising sign area. Advertising signs as a principal use shall
not exceed a maximum sign area of 200 square feet.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.328 PROVISIONS REGULATING ARTIFICIAL LIGHT SOURCES.
   The following provisions shall govern the use of artificial light sources
for all signs within the city.
   (A)   No illuminated signs shall be permitted in R-1 Districts, with the
exception of institutional signs. Minimal illumination is permitted. Internally
illuminated signs shall be permitted in the R-2 and R-3 Districts. Otherwise,
signs illuminated with artificial light shall be permitted in accordance with
the provisions of this section.
   (B)   All artificially illuminated signs shall use only that amount of
artificial light as is needed to light the sign. Specifically, wattage and
lumen output of all light sources shall be kept to the minimum necessary to
accomplish the intended purpose. Glare or reflected light, which is a by-
product of the light, also shall be considered artificial light, and similarly
shall be kept to a minimum. Artificial light sources shall not be placed at any
height taller than is essential to accomplish the intended purpose.
   (C)   Except for internally illuminated signs, artificial light source is
fully enclosed by opaque materials and does not project beyond them, and that
light may be transmitted in only one direction, except that incandescent light
bulbs with a wattage of 50 watts or less need not be fully enclosed. Any
diffusers must be flush mounted to the opaque fixture that no part of the light
source, the diffuser itself, or the like, projects beyond the opaque portion of
the fixture.
   (D)   All artificial light sources shall be contained in fully opaque
fixtures which control the light that it is directed either straight down or
straight up, or is located so close to the sign that there is no broadcast or
glare of light beyond the sign. It is intended that the visibility of the light
source itself be minimal.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.329 CONFORMING SIGN REMOVAL.
   All conforming signs and sign structures not used by a tenant or owner shall
be removed by the owner of the premises after six months of non-use.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.330 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   All signs, except temporary signs, existing upon the effective date of this
subchapter shall be allowed to continue in the manner of operation, provided
there is no change in use. All signs shall be in good repair and any
alterations or repairs to the sign shall not increase the non-conformity. After
a non-conforming sign has been removed, it shall not be replaced by another
non-conforming sign. After the non-conforming use to which the sign relates has
ceased for six months, the sign shall be removed.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.331 UNLAWFUL ERECTED SIGNS.
   If the Zoning Administrator finds that any sign has been erected without the
necessary permit(s), or any sign is being maintained in violation of any
provision of this subchapter, he or she may give written notice of the
violation to the installer of the sign, to the permit holder, and/or to the
owner, lessee or manager of the property. If, after receiving the notice, the
person fails to remove or alter the sign so as to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter, the sign shall be deemed to be a nuisance and may be removed
by the city under M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time. The
cost of the removal, including administrative expenses and reasonable
attorney’s fees, may be levied as a special assessment against the property
upon which the sign is located.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.332 APPEALS.
   An applicant for a sign permit or permit holder may appeal any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning Administrator/
Building Inspector in the enforcement of this subchapter by filing a letter of
appeal with the Zoning Administrator/Building Inspector requesting a hearing
before the Planning Commission and the City Council. The City Council shall
decide all the appeals.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.333 EXAMPLES OF VARIOUS SIGNS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b36b9d42e9370ada2703e0869412408390d30e7d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1525.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b36b9d42e9370ada2703e0869412408390d30e7d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1527.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b36b9d42e9370ada2703e0869412408390d30e7d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1533.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b36b9d42e9370ada2703e0869412408390d30e7d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1535.png]
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, USES
§ 154.345 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the regulation of non-
conforming buildings, structures, and uses, and to specify those requirements,
circumstances, and conditions under which non-conforming buildings, structures,
and uses will be operated and maintained. This chapter establishes separate
districts, each of which is an appropriate area for the location of uses which
are permitted in that district. It is necessary and consistent with the
establishment of these districts that non-conforming buildings, structures, and
uses not be permitted to continue without restriction. Furthermore, it is the
intent of this subchapter that all non-conforming uses shall be eventually
brought into conformity.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.346 NON-CONFORMITY.
   Any structure or use, not including existing residential home and accessory
buildings, which, on the effective date of September 16, 1998, does not, even
though lawfully established, conform to the applicable conditions of the
structure or use, is to be under the guidance of this subchapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.347 LAWFULLY CONSTRUCTED STRUCTURE, BUILDING, USE.
   Any structure or use lawfully existing upon the effective date of this
subchapter shall not be enlarged, but may be continued at the size and in the
manner of operation existing upon the date, except as hereinafter specified or
subsequently amended.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.348 PLACING OF UNSAFE STRUCTURE, BUILDING, USE.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the placing of a structure in a
safe condition when the structure is declared unsafe by the Zoning
Commissioner, provided the necessary repairs shall not constitute more than 50%
of fair market value of the structure. The value shall be determined by the
County Assessor.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.349 MOVING NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE, BUILDING, USE.
   No non-conforming building, structure, or use shall be moved to another lot,
or to any other part of the parcel of land, upon which the same was constructed
or was conducted at the time of this subchapter adoption, unless the movement
shall bring the non-conformance into compliance with the requirements of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.350 NON-CONFORMING TO CONFORMING STRUCTURE, BUILDING, USE.
   When any lawful non-conforming use of any structure or land in any district
has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be changed to any
non-conforming use.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.351 CHANGING NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE, BUILDING, USE.
   A lawful, non-conforming use of a structure or parcel of land may be changed
to lessen the non-conformity of use. Once a non-conforming structure or parcel
of land has been changed, it shall not thereafter be so altered to increase the
non-conformity.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.352 DESTROYING NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE, BUILDING, USE.
   (A)   If, at any time, a non-conforming building, structure, or use shall be
destroyed to the extent of more than 50% of its fair market value, the value to
be determined by the County Assessor, then, without further action by the
Council, the building, and the land on which the building was located or
maintained, shall, from and after the date of the destruction, be subject to
all the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which the
land and buildings are located.
   (B)   Any building which is damaged to an extent of less than 50% of its
value may be restored to its former extent. Estimate of the extent of damage
shall be made by the Building Official.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.353 DISCONTINUING NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE, BUILDING, USE.
   In the event that a non-conforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued, or its normal operations stopped for a period of six months, the
use of the same shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.354 MAINTENANCE, ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Normal maintenance of a building or other lawful, non-conforming use
is permitted, including necessary non-structural repairs and incidental
alterations which do not physically extend or intensify the non-conforming use.
   (B)   Alterations may be made to a building or other lawful, non-conforming
residential units when they will improve the livability thereof, provided they
will not increase the number of dwelling units, or size or volume of the
building.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.365 ADMINISTRATION OFFICER.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning Administrator
and the Building Official. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney and the
Chief of Police, when called upon by the City Council, to perform the duties as
may be necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.366 DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Determine that all building permits comply with the terms of this
chapter;
   (B)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including, but
not limited to, all maps, amendments, conditional uses, variances, appeals, and
applications therefor; and
   (C)   Receive, file, and forward all applications for appeal, variances,
conditional uses, and other matters to the designated official bodies,
including, but not limited to, filing a certified copy of all subdivisions,
CUPs, variances, and official mapping regarding the city, with the County
Recorder. A legal description shall be included.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.367 DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official shall enforce the provisions of this chapter, and
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Enforce the State Building Codes; and
   (B)   Issue certificates of occupancy for any use, structure, or building,
after the determination of building permits comply with the terms of this
chapter.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.368 FEES.
   (A)   To defray administrative costs of processing of requests for
conditional uses, amendments, variances, or appeals, a base fee per application
shall be paid by all applicants in accordance with a fee schedule adopted by
resolution by the City Council.
   (B)   In order to defray the additional cost of processing applications,
amendments, conditional uses, variances, or appeals for developments, all
applicants shall pay the total cost of staff and/or consulting time spent
exclusively in producing materials for the applicant’s request, and all
materials for the request.
      (1)   MATERIALS shall include, but not be limited to, maps, graphs,
charts, drawings, and the like, and all printing or reproduction of same.
      (2)   STAFF AND/OR CONSULTING TIME shall include any time spent in either
researching for, or actual production of, materials.
      (3)   The hourly rate for STAFF AND/OR CONSULTING TIME shall be
established and made available to the applicant by the Zoning Administrator
prior to production of any materials, and the applicant shall be given a
reasonable estimate of project time and/or material costs.
   (C)   Fees shall be payable at the time applications are filed with the
Zoning Administrator, and are not refundable unless the application is
withdrawn prior to referral to the Planning Commission, and prior to any
publication required by the application. A deposit to cover staff or consulting
time and special materials will be established, and required, by the Zoning
Administrator at the time the base fee is paid.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.369 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Scope. From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be
unlawful to proceed with the construction, alteration, replacement, repair,
enlargement, demolition, or removal of any building or structure, or part
thereof, without first obtaining a building permit.
   (B)   Application. Request for a building permit shall be filed with the
Building Official on an official
application form. Each application for a permit shall be accompanied by a site
and floor plan, drawn to scale, showing the dimensions of the lot to be upon,
the size and location of all principle and accessory buildings and parking
areas, and other additional information deemed necessary for the proper review
and enforcement of this chapter, and any other applicable building codes. The
fee for a building permit shall be based upon a fee schedule approved by City
Council.
   (C)   Issuance of permit. The Building Official shall issue the building
permit only when the plans comply with this chapter and other applicable city
ordinances.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
AMENDMENTS, CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
§ 154.380 AMENDMENTS, INITIATION.
   The City Council or Planning Commission may, upon their own motion, initiate
a request to amend the text or the district boundaries of this chapter. Any
person owning real estate within the city may initiate a request to amend the
district boundaries or text of this chapter so as to affect the real estate.
All amendment requests must first be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.381 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Request for amendments or conditional use permits, as provided within
this chapter, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on an official
application form. The application shall also be accompanied by complimentary
copies of detailed written and graphic materials, fully explaining the proposed
change, development, or use. The Zoning Administrator shall refer the
application, along with all related information, to the City Planning
Commission for consideration and a report at least ten days before the next
regular meeting.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator, on behalf of the Planning Commission, shall
set a date for a public hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be posted, as
provided by state law, at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
Notice shall also be mailed not less than ten days to all property owners of
record, according to the county assessment records, within 350 feet of the
property to which the request relates. A copy of the notice, and a list of the
property owners and addresses to which the notices were sent, shall be attested
to by the Zoning Administrator or City Administrator, and made part of the
official record. The failure to give mailed notice to individual property
owners, or defects in the notice, shall not invalidate the proceedings,
provided a bona fide attempt to comply with this section has been made.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall consider the request and hold a public
hearing at its next regular meeting, unless the filing date falls within 15
days of the meeting, in which case the request would be placed on the agenda
and considered at the regular meeting following the next regular meeting. The
Zoning Administrator shall refer the application, along with all related
information, to the City Planning Commission for consideration. The applicant,
or a representative thereof, shall appear before the Planning Commission in
order to answer questions concerning the proposed amendment or conditional use.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall consider possible adverse effects of the
proposed amendment or conditional use. Its judgment shall be based upon, but
not limited to, the following factors:
      (1)   Relationship to the city’s growth management system;
      (2)   The geographical area involved;
      (3)   Whether the use will tend to, or actually, depreciate the area in
which it is proposed; and
      (4)   The character of the surrounding area.
   (E)   The Planning Commission, City Council, and city staff shall have the
authority to request additional information from the applicant concerning
operational factors, or to retain expert testimony with the consent, and at the
expense, of the applicant concerning operational factors, the information to be
declared necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all
pertinent sections of this chapter.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall make a finding of fact, and recommend
the actions or conditions relating to the request to the City Council. For all
conditional uses, the following conditions shall be met:
      (1)   The land area and setback requirements of the property containing a
use or activity shall be the minimum established for the district;
      (2)   Where applicable, all city, state, and federal laws, regulations,
and ordinances shall be complied with, and all necessary permits secured;
      (3)   All signs shall be in compliance with §§
154.320 through
154.333 and shall not adversely impact adjoining or surrounding residential
uses;
      (4)   Adequate off-street parking and loading shall be provided in
accordance with §§
154.295 through
154.307. The parking and loading shall be screened and landscaped from abutting
residential uses in compliance with §
154.254;
      (5)   The proposed water, sewer, and other utilities shall be capable of
accommodating the proposed use;
      (6)   The street serving the proposed use or activity shall be of
sufficient design to accommodate the proposed use or activity, and the use or
activity shall not generate additional extra traffic to create a nuisance or
hazard to existing traffic or to surrounding land uses;
      (7)   All access roads, driveways, parking areas, and outside storage,
service, or sales areas shall be surfaced or grassed to control dust and
drainage;
      (8)   All open and outdoor storage, sales, and service areas shall be
screened from view from the public streets, and from abutting residential
districts;
      (9)   All lighting shall be designed as to have no direct source of light
visible from adjacent residential areas or from the public streets;
      (10)   The use or activity shall be properly drained to control surface
water runoff;
      (11)   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or area as to
cause impairment in the property values, or constitute a blighting influence;
and
      (12)   Where structures combine residential and non-residential uses, the
uses shall be separated and provided with individual outside access, and the
uses shall not conflict in any manner.
   (G)   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to change
when the Planning Commission or City Council, upon investigation, finds that
the community safety, health, welfare, and public betterment can be served as
well, or better, by modifying the conditions.
   (H)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall place the application, and/or report and
recommendation, on the agenda for the next regular meeting. The reports and
recommendations shall be entered in, and made part of, the permanent written
record of the City Council meeting.
   (I)   Upon reviewing the application, and/or receiving the report and
recommendation of the Planning Commission, the City Council shall take one of
the following actions:
      (1)   Approve or disapprove the request as recommended by the Planning
Commission;
      (2)   Approve or disapprove the recommendation of the Planning Commission
with modifications, alterations, or differing conditions. The modifications,
alterations, or differing conditions shall be in writing and made part of the
Council’s records; and/or
      (3)   Refer the recommendation back to the Planning Commission for future
consideration. This procedure shall be followed only one time on a singular
action.
   (J)   Approval of a request shall require passage by two-thirds vote of the
full City Council. The Zoning Administrator or City Administrator shall notify
the applicant, in writing, of the Council’s action.
   (K)   The recommendation of the Planning Commission shall be advisory to the
City Council. The decision of the City Council shall be final subject to
judicial review.
   (L)   A certified copy of any amendments or conditional use permits shall be
filed with the County Recorder. A legal description of the property shall be
included.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.382 LAPSE OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Within one year after granting a conditional use permit, if the terms,
as permitted, shall not have been completed, then the permit shall become null
and void, unless a petition for extension of time in which to complete the work
has been granted by the City Council. The extension shall be requested, in
writing, and filed with the Zoning Administrator or City Administrator at least
30 days before the expiration of the original conditional use permit. There
shall be no charge for the filing of the petition. The request for extension
shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to complete the work permitted
in the conditional use permit. The petition shall be presented to the Planning
Commission for a recommendation, and to the City Council for a decision, and
shall be requested only one time on a singular action.
   (B)   A conditional use permit shall remain in effect as long as the
conditions agreed upon are observed, but nothing in this subchapter shall
prevent the city from enacting or amending official controls to change the
status of conditional uses.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.383 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   The Planning Commission and City Council shall have the authority to
require a performance bond or other security when it is deemed necessary.
   (B)   Except in the case of non-income producing residential property, upon
approval of a conditional use permit, the city may be provided with a surety
bond, cash escrow, certificate of deposit, other securities, or cash deposit
prior to the issuing of building permits or initiation of work on the proposed
improvements or development. The securities shall guarantee conformance and
compliance with the conditions of the conditional use permit, and the
ordinances of the city.
   (C)   The security may be in the amount of the City Council’s estimated
costs of labor and materials for the proposed improvements or development. The
project can be handled in stages upon the discretion of the City Council.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
VARIANCES AND APPEALS
§ 154.395 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   The City Council shall act as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals, and shall
have the following powers:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an error
in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of this chapter; and
   (B)   To hear requests for variances from the literal provisions of this
chapter in instances where the strict enforcement would cause undue hardship
because of circumstances unique to the individual property under consideration.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.396 FINDING OF FACT.
   In considering all requests for a variance or appeal, the City Council,
acting as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals, shall make a finding of fact, as
appropriate, that the proposed action will not:
   (A)   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property;
   (B)   Unreasonably increase the congestion in the public right-of-way;
   (C)   Increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety;
   (D)   Unreasonably diminish or impair established property values within the
neighborhood;
   (E)   Cause an unreasonable strain upon existing municipal facilities and
services;
   (F)   Be contrary in any way to the provisions and intent of the city’s
Growth Management System; and
   (G)   Have a negative, direct and indirect, fiscal impact upon the city,
county, or school district, unless the proposed use is determined to be in the
public interest.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.397 CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING VARIANCES.
   (A)   The City Council, acting as the Board of Adjustments and Appeals, may
not permit, as a variance, any use that is not permitted under this chapter for
property in the zone where the affected person’s land is located.
   (B)   A variance may be granted only when there exists a non-economic
hardship in the reasonable use of a specific parcel of property. A non-economic
hardship shall exist by reasons of one, or any, of the following:
      (1)   Narrowness, shallowness, or shape of a specific parcel of property
or a lot existing, and of record, upon the effective date of this chapter;
      (2)   Exceptional topographic or water conditions of a specific parcel of
land or lot;
      (3)   The property cannot be put to reasonable use if used under the
conditions allowed by this chapter;
      (4)   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the
property not created by the landowner; and
      (5)   Granting the variance will not alter the essential character of the
locality.
         (a)   Economic considerations alone do not constitute an undue
hardship if reasonable use for the property exists under the terms of this
chapter.
         (b)   A variance may be granted for in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4)
above when the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
result in exceptional difficulties in developing the property in a legally
permissible manner. The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may impose conditions
in granting the variance to ensure compliance to protect adjacent properties.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.398 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Requests for variances or appeals shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator on an official application form. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee as outlined in §
154.368, or as amended. This fee shall not be refunded. The application shall
also be accompanied by copies of detail written, or graphic materials, fully
explaining the proposed request. The Zoning Administrator shall refer the
application, along with all related information, to the Planning Commission,
acting in an advisory role to the Board of Adjustment and Appeals, for
consideration and report at least ten days before the next regular meeting. The
Zoning Administrator, on behalf of the Planning Commission, shall set a date
for a public hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be posted, as provided by
state law, at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. Notice shall be
mailed not less than ten days to all property owners of record, according to
the county assessment records, within 350 feet of the property to which the
request relates. A copy of the notice, and a list of the property owners and
addresses to which the notices were sent, shall be attested to by the Zoning
Administrator or City Administrator, and made part of the official record. The
failure to give mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the
notice, shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to
comply with this section has been made.
   (B)   The Planning Commission, acting in an advisory role to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals, shall consider the request at its next regular meeting,
unless the filing date falls within 15 days of the meeting, in which case the
request would be placed on the agenda and considered at the regular meeting
following the next regular meeting. The applicant, or a representative thereof,
shall appear before the Planning Commission in order to answer questions
concerning the proposed amendment or conditional use.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall consider the request and hold a public
hearing at its next regular meeting, unless the filing date falls within 15
days of the meeting, in which case the request would be placed on the agenda
and considered at the regular meeting following the next regular meeting. The
Zoning Administrator shall refer the application, along with all related
information, to the City Planning Commission for consideration. The applicant,
or a representative thereof, shall appear before the Planning Commission in
order to answer questions concerning the proposed amendment or conditional use.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall consider possible adverse effects of the
proposed amendment or conditional use. Its judgment shall be based upon, but
not limited to, the following factors:
      (1)   Relationship to the city’s Growth Management System Comp. Plan;
      (2)   The geographical area involved;
      (3)   Whether the use will tend to, or actually, depreciate the area in
which it is proposed; and
      (4)   The character of the surrounding area.
   (E)   The Planning Commission, City Council, and city staff shall have the
authority to request additional information from the applicant concerning
operational factors, or to retain expert testimony with the consent, and at the
expense, of the applicant concerning the operational factors, the information
to be declared necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all
pertinent sections of this chapter.
   (F)   Within 60 days from the date of reference of the proposed variance or
appeal, the Planning Commission shall make a finding of fact, and recommend the
actions or conditions related to the request to the City Council. In the case
of additional information requested from the applicant pursuant to division (C)
above, the 60-day period will begin upon receipt of the information by the
city.
   (G)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, or until 60 days have elapsed from the date of reference of the
proposed variance or appeal without a report by Planning Commission, the City
Council shall place the application, and/or report and recommendation, on the
agenda for the next regular meeting. The reports, recommendations, and findings
shall be entered in, and made part of, the written record of the Council
meeting.
   (H)   (1)   Upon reviewing the application, and/or receiving the report and
recommendation of the Planning Commission, the City Council shall take one of
the following actions:
         (a)   Approve or disapprove the request as recommended by the Planning
Commission;
         (b)   Approve or disapprove the recommendation of the Planning
Commission with modifications, alterations, or differing conditions. The
modifications, alterations, or differing conditions shall be in writing and
made part of the Council’s records; and/or
         (c)   Refer the recommendation back to the Planning Commission for
further consideration. This procedure shall be followed only one time on a
singular action.
      (2)   Approval of variances or appeals shall require passage by two-
thirds vote of the full City Council. The Zoning Administrator or City
Administrator shall notify the applicant of the Council’s action.
   (I)   The decisions of the Planning Commission shall be advisory to the City
Council. The decisions of the City Council shall be final subject to judicial
review.
   (J)   A certified copy of any variance shall be filed with the County
Recorder. A legal description of the property shall be included.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.399 LAPSE OF VARIANCE, APPEAL.
   Whenever, within one year after granting a variance or appeal the terms as
permitted by the variance or appeal shall not have been completed, then the
variance or appeal shall become null and void, unless a petition for extension
of time in which to complete the work has been granted by the City Council. The
extension shall be requested in writing and filed with the Zoning Administrator
at least 30 days before the expiration of the original variance or appeal.
There shall be no charge for the filing of the petition. The request for
extension shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to complete the work
permitted in the variance or appeal. The petition shall be presented to the
Planning Commission for recommendation and to the City Council for a decision,
and shall be requested only one time on a singular action.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
§ 154.400 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the authority to require a performance
bond, or other securities, when it is deemed necessary and appropriate.
   (B)   Except in the case of non-income producing residential property, upon
approval of a variance or appeal, the city may be provided with a surety bond,
cash escrow certificate of deposit, securities, or cash deposit prior to the
issuing of building permits or initiation of work on the proposed improvements
or development. The security shall guarantee conformance and compliance with
the conditions of the variance or appeal, and the ordinances of the city.
   (C)   The security may be in the amount of the City Council’s estimated
costs of labor and materials for the proposed improvements or development.
   (D)   The city may hold the security until completion of the proposed
improvements or development, and a certificate of occupancy indicating
compliance with the variance or appeal, and ordinances of the city, has been
issued by the City Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Failure to comply with the conditions of the variance or appeal, and/
or ordinances of the city, may result in forfeiture of the security.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
WETLANDS DISTRICT
§ 154.415 FINDINGS, INTENT, AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city of Braham, or city designated county and state agencies.
   WETLAND(S). Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems where
the water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is covered by
shallow water. For purposes of this definition, wetlands must have three of the
following attributes:
      (1)   A predominance of hydric soils;
      (2)   Inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency
and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic vegetation
typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions; and
      (3)   Under normal circumstances, support a prevalence of such
vegetation.
   WETLAND BUFFER STRIPS. An area of vegetated ground cover abutting a wetland
that, either in its natural condition or through intervention, has the
characteristics identified in division (A) of this section. This includes areas
identified as drainage/utility easements and/or Flood Zones as identified in §§
152.01 through
152.13 of this code.
   (B)   The city has determined that wetlands serve to maintain water quality
by filtering water that is discharged into ground water aquifers and by
retaining inorganic sediments, toxicants, and nutrients. They also retain and
reduce the discharge of phosphorus and transform nutrients from their inorganic
to organic forms, thereby, protecting streams and water bodies from
eutrophication and contamination. Wetlands also store runoff and reduce the
velocity of and magnitude of flood peaks. In addition, some wetlands receive
the upward discharge of ground water. These wetlands tend to support more
stable biological communities since their water temperatures and water levels
tend to be more stable.
   (C)   Wetland vegetation also reduces the energy of waves, currents, and
other erosive forces and serves to prevent the erosion of shoreline areas. In
addition, aquatic vegetation provides food, shelter, and special habitat for
wildlife. All of these wetland characteristics provide valuable recreation and
education resources.
   (D)   The city has also found that wetlands vary significantly in the degree
that they have been altered. Wetlands within the city exhibit great variations
in their floral diversity, quality of wildlife and fishery habitat, degree of
fluctuation in response to storms, the extent to which their shorelines have
been altered or eroded, and their relative value in protecting water quality.
Therefore, the city has determined that it is necessary and beneficial to
classify wetlands based upon their functions and values. The city has also
found that it is in the best interest of the general health and welfare of the
city to achieve no net loss of wetlands within the community.
   (E)   The city recognizes that a substantial amount of wetland degradation
results from sedimentation and nutrient loading related to construction
projects. Therefore, the city finds it necessary to require extraordinary
measures to prevent such construction-related degradation.
   (F)   In addition to having regulations that affect the physical impacts
within wetland areas the city also finds that it is necessary to regulate the
use of lands surrounding wetlands. Wetland buffer strips (as defined by
division (A)), are necessary and beneficial to maintaining the health of
wetlands. These strips of land surrounding wetlands protect their shorelines
from erosion, while serving to filter sediment, chemicals and other nutrients
before storm water discharges into the wetland. Wetland buffer strips are also
beneficial in providing habitat for wildlife.
   (G)   This subchapter hereby incorporates by reference the Wetlands
Conservation Act of 1991, being M. S. §§ 103G.221 et seq., as it may be amended
from time to time, herein after referred to as the WCA, and any future
amendments adopted by the legislature. Any activities exempted from the
provisions of the WCA are also exempted from the requirements of this
subchapter, insofar as they relate to the WCA. All wetlands, as defined in
division (A) of this section, including those governed by the Department of
Natural Resources, are covered by the provisions of this subchapter. Also,
there are circumstances under which the strict enforcement of these regulations
may be unreasonable, and in circumstances that meet the established criteria,
departures from the strict application of these standards may be permitted.
   (H)   It is the intent of this subchapter to avoid the alteration and
destruction of wetlands. When wetlands are altered or destroyed, mitigation
must be provided to recreate the functions and values of the lost wetland, in
accordance with the wetland replacement plan requirements outlined in division
(A) of this section.
(Ord. 290, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 154.416 PURPOSE AND IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Through the adoption and enforcement of this subchapter, the city
shall promote the general health, safety, and welfare of its residents by both
conserving and protecting wetlands and requiring sound management practices and
mitigation as provided for in the WCA when development occurs in the vicinity
of wetlands. Through the implementation of this subchapter, the city seeks to
accomplish the following purposes:
      (1)   To satisfy the requirements of the WCA as it may be amended and,
thereby achieve no net loss of wetlands within the city;
      (2)   To balance the needs to preserve and protect natural resources and
systems with both the rights of private property owners and the need to support
the efficient use of developable land within the city;
      (3)   To preserve the natural character of the landscape through the
maintenance of wetland ecosystems;
      (4)   To promote water quality by maintaining the ability of wetlands to
recharge ground water and receive the discharge of ground water, to retain
sediment and toxicants and filter and strip nutrients from surface water runoff
before it discharges into community lakes and streams, thus avoiding the
contamination and eutrophication of these water features; and
      (5)   To provide wildlife habitat and thereby support the maintenance of
diversity of both plant and animal species within the city.
   (B)   To accomplish these purposes, the city or county will:
       (1)   Maintain an inventory of all wetlands within the city/county;
      (2)   Maintain a system of classification for wetlands within the city
and classify the city’s wetlands based upon their relative values related to
floral diversity, wildlife habitat, water quality protection, fishery habitat,
flood storage, shoreline protection, and aesthetic, recreational and education
benefits;
      (3)   Prepare and maintain a comprehensive set of official maps
identifying the location and classification of all wetlands within the city;
       (4)   Establish wetland regulations that are coordinated with flood
plain and shoreland protection regulations;
      (5)   Require sound management practices to protect, conserve, maintain,
enhance, and improve the quality of wetlands within the community;
      (6)   Enforce standards for the alteration of wetlands when alteration is
allowed, including standards and procedures for the mitigation of the loss of
wetland areas and their functions and values, when alteration or destruction
occurs;
      (7)   Obtain protective easements over or acquire fee title to wetlands
as appropriate; and
      (8)   Develop and maintain a program to educate the public about the
numerous benefits and features that wetlands provide and the adverse effects of
improperly managed urban development on wetlands.
(Ord. 290, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 154.417 IDENTIFICATION AND DELINEATION OF WETLANDS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to all land containing wetlands and land
within the buffer strip and setback areas required by this subchapter. Wetlands
shall be subject to the requirements established herein, as well as
restrictions and requirements established by other applicable federal, state,
and city ordinances and regulations. These wetland protection regulations shall
not be construed to allow anything otherwise prohibited in the zoning district
where the wetland area is located.
   (B)   A wetland is land that meets the definition of “wetlands” as set forth
in §
154.415(A) of this subchapter. Wetlands shall be determined according to the
United States Army Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual (January 1987)
and regional supplements if available. Wetlands have been or will be identified
and the wetland classification as maintained by the county as evidence of the
location and classification of a wetland. The presence or absence of a wetland
on the official maps does not represent a definitive determination as to
whether a wetland covered by this subchapter is or is not present. Wetlands
that are identified during site specific delineation activities but do not
appear on the official wetland maps are still subject to the provisions of this
subchapter. It will be the responsibility of an applicant to delineate the
exact wetland boundary or to determine that no wetland exists on a subject
property. All delineations must be reviewed and approved by the city. It will
be the responsibility of the property owner to pay for all the city’s fees
associated with delineation, including but not limited to technical fees,
engineering costs and legal fees. If an applicant questions whether a wetland
exists or disputes its classification, the applicant shall have the burden to
supply detailed information for review supporting the applicant's assertion,
including but not limited to, topographic, hydrologic, floristic and soil data
deemed necessary by the city to determine the jurisdictional status of the
wetland, its exact boundary and its classification. Wetland delineations
supplied by applicants shall be certified by a qualified wetland delineator.
Wetland delineators must satisfy any certification requirements that may be
established by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or the Minnesota Board of Water
and Soil Resources.
   (C)   Only that portion of a property within the boundaries of a wetland and
its required buffer strip and setback shall be subject to the provisions of
this subchapter.
    (D)   This section establishes wetland classifications as defined in §
154.415(A) of this subchapter.
(Ord. 290, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 154.418 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following standards apply to all lands containing or abutting a wetland:
   (A)   Septic and soil absorption systems must be set back per state statute.
   (B)   The lowest ground floor elevation shall be two feet above the 100-year
flood elevation.
   (C)   Structures intended to provide access across a wetland shall be
prohibited unless a permit is obtained in conformance with state regulations.
   (D)   The MPCA’s Best Management Practices and Minnesota Storm Water Manual,
as applicable, shall be followed to avoid erosion and sedimentation during the
construction process.
   (E)   Before the city issues a building permit for a lot with a required
wetland buffer strip, the lot owner shall install the wetland buffer
monumentation required by §
154.421 of this code.
   (F)   Wetlands and their required buffer strips, as required by §
154.419 of this code, shall be kept free of impervious surfaces excluding
public roads and trails, and of any structures and features, including but not
limited to fences and play equipment.
   (G)   Wetlands and their required buffer strips, as required by §
154.419 of this code, shall not be used for filling or dumping.
   (H)   Wetlands and their required buffer strips, as required by §
154.419 of this code, shall not be used for outside storage of household or
personal items, lawn equipment, furniture, firewood, parts, yard waste, and the
like.
   (I)   In cases where a site is not subject to the wetland buffer strips and
setbacks required by §
154.419 of this code, buildings, swimming pools, patios, decks, retaining
walls, drive aisles, and parking lots shall not be located in the wetland.
(Ord. 290, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 154.419 WETLAND BUFFER STRIPS AND SETBACKS.
   (A)   All lots of record created after January 3, 1991 and all properties
with development or redevelopment projects received after August 1, 2020 that
would result in one acre or more of soil disturbance or that would result in
one acre or more of additional impervious surface coverage to a developed site,
shall provide and maintain a wetland buffer strip and structure setback
abutting all wetlands.
   (B)   Buffer strip vegetation shall be established and maintained in
accordance with the requirements of this section. Except for removal of noxious
weeds and nuisance or dead vegetation, wetland buffer strips shall not be
disturbed, cut (mowed) or cultivated, without prior approval of a buffer
restoration/management plan by the city. Buffer strips shall be identified
within each lot by permanent monumentation approved by the city.
   (C)   For roadways that must be aligned either adjacent to or across
wetlands and are subject to WCA replacement requirements, additional wetland
filling to create a buffer strip shall not be required. Public trails that are
intended to serve an interpretive function may also be exempted from the buffer
strip requirement. All other roadways and trails shall meet the buffer strip
standards established by this section.
   (D)   If the area of the buffer strip has a preconstruction slope of 12% or
greater, the buffer strip shall be at the applicable maximum width for the
wetland classification. The use of a meandering buffer strip to maintain a
natural appearance is encouraged but not required in areas of flat topography.
   (E)   The required structure setback shall apply to all structures except
those identified in §
154.420 of this subchapter and roadways, driveways, parking lots, trails, and
their related retaining walls and fences.
   (F)   Wetland buffer strips not required by this section may be voluntarily
created in conformance with the requirements of this section concurrent with
approval of a site plan, or in the absence of a site plan, upon approval of the
city.
(Ord. 290, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 154.420 ENCROACHMENTS ALLOWED INTO REQUIRED SETBACK AND BUFFER STRIP AREAS.
   (A)   Fences may be located within a required structure setback area
provided they are designed, constructed, and maintained so as to not obstruct
the flow of storm water.
   (B)   Water quality ponds may encroach into required wetland buffer strip
areas, provided that the amount of buffer strip encroached upon does not exceed
50% of the total area required for such ponding, and provided that the amount
of buffer strip encroached upon does not exceed 50% of the total area required
for buffering. These limitations may be exceeded where two-cell water quality
ponding is provided.
(Ord. 290, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 154.421 MONUMENTATION REQUIRED.
   A permanent wetland buffer monument shall be installed and maintained at
each lot line where it crosses a wetland buffer strip, and where needed to
indicate the contour of the buffer strip, with a maximum spacing of 100 feet.
(Ord. 290, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 154.422 BUFFER STRIP VEGETATION PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Where acceptable natural vegetation exists in buffer strip areas, such
vegetation shall be retained. A buffer strip has acceptable natural vegetation
if it:
      (1)   Has a continuous, dense layer of perennial grasses that have been
uncultivated or unbroken for at least five consecutive years;
      (2)   Has an overstory of trees or shrubs with at least 80% canopy
closure that have been uncultivated or unbroken for at least five consecutive
years; or
       (3)   Contains a mixture of the plant communities described in sections
(1) and (2) above, that have been uncultivated or unbroken for at least five
consecutive years.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the performance standards outlined in division (A)
above, the city may determine existing buffer strip vegetation to be
unacceptable if:
      (1)   It is composed of undesirable plant species (including but not
limited to reed canary grass, common buckthorn, purple loosestrife, leafy
spurge or noxious weeds);
      (2)   It is lacking a layer of organic thatch or duff;
      (3)   Has topography that tends to channelize the flow of surface runoff;
or
      (4)   For some other reason it is unlikely to retain nutrients and
sediment.
   (C)   Where buffer strip areas, or a portion thereof, are not vegetated or
have been cultivated or otherwise disturbed within five years of the permit
application, such areas shall be re-planted and maintained according to each of
the following standards:
      (1)   The soil in wetland buffer strips shall be amended, as necessary,
to ensure that the soil has an organic content of not less than 10% and not
more than 35%.
       (2)   Buffer strips shall be planted with a Board of Water and Soil
Resources (BWSR) approved seed mix containing 100% perennial native plant
species, except for a one-time planting of an annual nurse or cover crop such
as oats or rye.
      (3)   The annual nurse or cover crop shall be applied at a rate of 20
pounds per acre.
      (4)   Native shrubs may be substituted for forbs. Such shrubs may be bare
root seedlings and shall be planted at a rate of 60 plants per acre. Shrubs
shall be distributed to provide a natural appearance and shall not be planted
in rows.
      (5)   Any ground cover or shrub plantings installed in buffer strip areas
are independent of landscaping requirements set forth elsewhere in the city
code and city policy.
      (6)   Native prairie grasses and forbs shall be planted by a qualified
contractor.
      (7)   No fertilizer shall be used in establishing new buffer strips,
except on highly disturbed sites when deemed necessary to establish acceptable
buffer strip vegetation and then limited to amounts indicated by an accredited
soil testing laboratory.
      (8)   All seeded areas shall have a two-inch thick application of compost
(Mn/DOT Grade 2 Section 3890) or be mulched immediately with clean straw at a
rate of one and one-half tons per acre. Mulch shall be anchored with a disk or
tackifier.
      (9)   Buffer strips (both natural and created), shall be protected by
silt fence during construction and the fence shall remain in place until the
area crop is established.
   (D)   During the first five years after initial planting, the developer
shall submit to the city an annual report documenting the progress for
establishment of the buffer strip. The report shall include a map of the buffer
strip location, a description of compliance with the performance standards, a
description of activities completed within the past year, a description of
activities planned for the upcoming year, a map of plant communities within the
buffer strip boundary including square footage estimates of the areas of native
plantings and invasive or non-native vegetation, and other information as may
be requested by the city of Plymouth. Until such time as the buffer strip is
accepted by the city, the developer shall be required to replant any buffer
strip vegetation that does not survive. After the city has accepted the buffer
strip, if the condition of the buffer strip area changes through natural
processes not caused by the property owner, the owner shall not be required to
re-establish the buffer strip area to meet the standards established in this
subdivision.
(Ord. 290, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 154.423 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Requests for variances shall be made in accordance with the procedures
and requirements set forth in §§
154.395 through
154.400 of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances shall only be granted when the standards and criteria set
forth in §§
154.395 through
154.400 of this chapter have been met. Variances shall not be granted which
would circumvent the intent and purposes of this subdivision.
(Ord. 290, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 154.424 WETLAND REPLACEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Wetland replacement plan applications shall be submitted, reviewed,
and considered in accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 8420.
   (B)   Requests for approval of a wetland replacement plan application shall
be submitted to the city. Cost of city time and materials expended in reviewing
and processing the wetland replacement plan shall be charged against the cash
escrow and credited to the city (applies to development projects). If, at any
time, the balance in the cash escrow is depleted to less than 10% of the
originally required cash escrow amount, the applicant shall deposit additional
funds in the cash escrow account as determined by the city. Any balance
remaining in the cash escrow account upon completion of the review process
shall be returned to the applicant after all claims and charges thereto have
been deducted. City public works projects are exempt from the fee/escrow
requirement.
(Ord. 290, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount as set by Council from time to time for each
offense, or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both. Each day that the
violation is permitted to exist constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 199, passed 2-7-2000)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
129      7-10-1989   East Central Electric Association; expired 2014 (25
                     years).
131      11-6-1989   Midwest Gas; expired 2014 (25 years).
272      4-3-2014    Centerpoint Energy Resource Corp.; expires 4-3-2034 (20
                     years).
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Changing zoning of area between Highway 107 on the east,
85       - -         Broadway on the west, 5th Street N.W. on the south, and
                     the county line on the north.
95       - -         Amending zoning of lots 5 and 6 of block 4, and the
                     easterly 510.25 feet of block 5, of the Eastgate Addition.
186      - -         Rezoning Olind Addition from R-1 to R-2.
                     Extending corporate limits to include Township of Grass
104      3-7-1983    Lake, County of Kanabec: South half of the southeast
                     quarter of section 35, township 38, range 23.
                     Extending corporate limits to include Township of
108      8-19-1985   Stanchfield, County of Isanti: West half of northwest
                     quarter of section 11, township 37, range 23.
                     Extending corporate limits to include Township of
121      9-8-1987    Stanchfield, County of Isanti: Southwest quarter of
                     northwest quarter of section 11, township 37, range 23.
                     Extending corporate limits to include Township of
122      10-5-1987   Stanchfield, County of Isanti: West half of northwest
                     corner of section 11, township 37, range 23.
                     Extending corporate limits to include Township of
127      6-5-1989    Stanchfield, County of Isanti: Northwest quarter of
                     northwest quarter of section 11, township 37, range 23.
                     Rezoning two parcels of land owned by Design Engineering &
177      12-1-1997   Manufacturing, and East Central Electric Warehouse, from
                     GB to I-1.
                     Extending corporate limits to include Township of
201      11-6-2000   Stanchfield, County of Isanti: West half of northwest
                     quarter of section 12, township 37, range 23.
                     Extending corporate limits to include Township of
203      3-5-2001    Stanchfield, County of Isanti: Lot 3, block 1, RJ
                     addition, three acres.
                     Extending corporate limits to include parts of the County
205      9-4-2001    of Kanabec; Southwest quarter of southwest quarter of
                     section 35, township 38, range 23.
206      9-4-2001    Southwest quarter of southwest quarter of section 3,
                     township 37, range 23.
                     Lots 5, 6, 7 block. 1 Lake View Addition zoned to R-1 One/
238      3-1-2005    Two-Family Residential District from GB General Business
                     District.
291      8-13-2020   Annexing certain real property from Stanchfield Township.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cite Code Section
M.S. Cite                     Code Section
12.25                         32.01;
                              32.04
12.37                         32.06
Chapter 13                    34.12;
                              34.13
Chapter 13D                   34.01;
                              34.12
13.37                         71.15
14.57 through 14.69           110.35
15.73                         71.02
Chapter 18.022                151.03
18G.07                        90.02
Chapter 28A                   116.06
65B.48, subd. 5               72.02;
                              72.09
84.92, subd. 8                72.01
84.92, subd. 9                72.01
84.92, subd. 10               72.01
84.765, subd. 2(c)            72.02
84.922                        72.02
84.925, subd. 5               72.02
84.928                        72.02
84.9256, subd. 2              72.06
Chapter 88                    94.04
89.001                        90.02
89.01                         90.02
89.51 et seq.                 151.03
89.51 through 89.64           90.02
Chapters 103F                 152.01
Chapter 103G                  152.10
103G.221 et seq.              154.415
103G.245                      154.260
115.01, subd. 5               52.002
115.07                        52.002
Chapter 116D                  153.030
116D.01                       154.009
116D.04, subd. 2a             154.009
144.391                       113.01
144A.01                       154.008
Chapter 145A                  113.01
145A.05, subd. 1              131.21
145A.05, subd. 1 and subd. 9  113.01
151.72                        117.02,
                              117.08
151.72, subds. 3(c) and 5a(b) 117.01
151.72, subd. 4               117.05
151.72, subds. 5, 5a, and 6   117.05
152.02                        130.03
152.02, schedules I through V 91.03
152.0263, subd. 5             90.04
152.22 to 152.37              117.03
Chapter 157                   116.06
160.22                        90.02
161.45                        71.02;
                              71.16
168.10                        93.02
168.11                        93.02
Chapter 168B                  91.16
168B.01 through 168B.16       70.06
168B.08                       70.21;
                              70.50
168B.035                      70.21
Chapter 169                   70.40;
                              70.46
169.011, subd. 92             93.02
169.045                       72.02;
                              72.09
169.045, subd. 1(3)           72.01
169.045, subd. 4              72.02
169.045, subd. 7              72.02
169.70                        72.08
169.522                       72.02
169.999                       10.98
Chapter 176                   32.07
216B.02                       71.02
216B.02, subds. 4 and 6       71.02
216B.36                       71.16
                              71.02;
Chapter 216D                  71.03;
                              71.10
216D.01 through 216D.09       71.10;
                              71.18
216D.04, subd. 3              71.02;
                              71.15
222.37                        71.16
237.16                        71.01
237.79                        71.01
237.81                        71.01
                              71.01;
237.162                       71.02;
                              71.07;
                              71.16
237.162, subd. 4              71.02
                              71.01;
237.163                       71.02;
                              71.07;
                              71.16
237.163, subd. 2(b)           71.01
Chapter 238                   71.02
238.084                       71.16
238.086                       71.01
297F.01, subd. 3              113.02
Chapter 299F.011              94.02
301B.01                       71.02;
                              71.16
Chapter 308A                  71.02
Chapter 325J                  112.01
Chapter 326B                  33.10
326B.43, subd. 2(n)           150.07
326B.46                       52.063
326B.101 through 326B.194     150.05
326B.103, subd. 11            150.07
326B.103, subd. 13            150.07
326B.106                      150.06
326B.106, subd. 2             150.06
326B.121                      150.05
326B.121, subd. 2(f)          150.06
326B.133, subd. 1             150.05
326B.148                      33.14;
                              150.05
326B.35                       71.07
Chapter 327                   154.008;
                              154.084
Chapter 340A                  110.20
340A.409                      110.23
340A.412, subd. 14            117.04
340A.414                      110.33
340A.503, subd.1(a)(1)        131.24
340A.801                      110.23
342.09, subd. 1(2)            90.04
342.09, subd. 1(7)(iii)       90.04
342.09, subd. 1(7)(b)(9)      90.04
347.51                        33.01
Chapter 349                   115.01
349.11 et seq.                115.02
349.12                        115.03
349.15                        115.03
349.18                        115.04
349.166                       115.04
351.02                        34.14
364.03, subd. 3               117.04
364.06                        34.13
364.09                        34.13
364.021                       34.13
366.011                       31.20
366.012                       31.20
412.02, subd. 2a              34.14
412.02, subd. 3               30.01
412.591, subd. 2              30.01
415.01                        31.20
415.11                        34.08
415.11, subd. 3               30.02
                              71.15;
Chapter 429                   151.07;
                              154.331
429.061                       90.02
                              90.02;
                              91.01-
429.101                       91.03;
                              91.26;
                              151.07;
                              130.03
Chapter 453                   71.02
Chapter 453A                  71.02
Chapter 461                   113.01
461.12                        113.99
Chapter 462                   71.15;
                              152.01
462.351 through 462.365       30.25
462.357                       154.261
462.358                       153.001;
                              153.065
462.3593                      154.029
462.3593, subd. 9             154.029
Chapter 463                   130.03
463.15 through 463.26         91.01
471.895                       34.12
508.08                        153.032
514.67                        91.01
515.01 through 515.29         154.008
609.02, subd. 3               130.99
609.321                       114.05
609.322                       114.05
609.322, subd. 1(a)(3)        114.05
609.324                       114.05
609.342                       114.05
609.343                       114.05
609.344                       114.05
609.345                       114.05
609.365                       114.05
609.685, subd. c              90.04
617.23                        114.05
                              114.05;
617.241                       154.008;
                              154.200
617.246                       114.05
617.247                       114.05
617.293                       114.05
617.294                       114.05
626.862                       10.20
631.48                        10.99
Chapter 1974, 105.42          154.260
Chapter 7009                  154.156
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
85       - -         TSO Table II
95       - -         TSO Table II
186      - -         TSO Table II
65       5-3-1965    150.02;
                     150.99
                     110.01-
67       6-7-1967    110.07;
                     110.99
80       5-14-1974   151.01-
                     151.10
81       8-13-1974   110.01
87       1-9-1978    70.07
104      3-7-1983    TSO Table II
107      5-2-1983    90.03;
                     90.99
108      8-19-1985   TSO Table II
109      5-5-1986    53.02-
                     53.99
110      6- -1986    150.04;
                     150.99
115      3-2-1987    30.01
119      8-3-1987    30.15-
                     30.25
121      9-8-1987    TSO Table II
122      10-5-1987   TSO Table II
128      4-3-1989    90.99
127      6-5-1989    TSO Table II
129      7-10-1989   TSO Table I
131      11-6-1989   TSO Table I
                     93.01-
140      8-3-1992    93.10;
                     93.99
144      9-7-1993    130.02;
                     130.99
158      10-7-1996   30.22
165      2-3-1997    150.03;
                     150.99
                     131.01;
167      2-3-1997    131.03;
                     131.04;
                     131.99
                     131.02;
168      2-3-1997    131.05;
                     131.99
177      12-1-1997   TSO Table II
192      3-1-1999    70.99;
                     Ch. 73 Schd. I
194      7-6-1999    150.06
195      10-4-1999   112.01;
                     112.02
                     153.001-
                     153.016;
                     153.030-
                     153.033;
                     153.045-
                     154.049;
                     153.065;
                     153.067-
                     153.072;
                     153.999;
                     154.001-
                     154.009;
                     154.025-
                     154.029;
                     154.040-
                     154.049;
                     154.060-
                     154.069;
                     154.080-
                     154.083;
                     154.095-
                     154.104;
                     154.120-
                     154.130;
                     154.145-
                     154.154;
199      2-7-2000    154.156;
                     154.157;
                     154.170-
                     154.182;
                     154.220-
                     154.223;
                     154.235-
                     154.238;
                     154.250-
                     154.261;
                     154.275-
                     154.280;
                     154.295;
                     154.297-
                     154.307;
                     154.320;
                     154.322;
                     154.323-
                     154.333;
                     154.345-
                     154.354;
                     154.365-
                     154.369;
                     154.380-
                     154.383;
                     154.395-
                     154.400;
                     154.999
200      5-1-2000    30.03
201      11-6-2000   TSO Table II
203      3-5-2001    TSO Table II
205      9-4-2001    TSO Table II
206      9-4-2001    TSO Table II
                     115.01-
207      10-2-2001   115.09;
                     115.99
                     153.014;
                     153.046;
208      11-5-2001   154.097;
                     154.296;
                     154.321;
                     154.325
                     31.01-
216      7-2-2002    31.07;
                     31.99
218      2-4-2003    53.05
220      5-6-2003    150.05
221      5-6-2003    130.03;
                     130.99
                     154.195-
                     154.199;
222      6-3-2003    154.201-
                     154.205;
                     154.207;
                     154.208;
224      7-8-2003    153.066
                     111.01;
226      11-10-2003  111.02;
                     111.99
                     114.01-
229      4-6-2004    114.21;
                     114.99
230      4-6-2004    154.008;
                     154.200
235      11-8-2004   154.280;
                     154.281
238      3-1-2005    TSO Table II
                     154.105;
240      6-7-2005    154.130;
                     154.155;
                     154.206
244      12-6-2005   130.01;
                     130.99
246      5-2-2006    154.010
                     70.01-
                     70.06;
251      4-3-2007    70.20-
                     70.27;
                     70.99
257      11-10-2008  90.01;
                     90.99
260      1-6-2009    110.05
261      3-3-2009    154.323
                     152.01-
262      10-12-2009  152.13;
                     152.25-
                     152.29
263      10-12-2009  150.01
                     50.01-
265      5-4-2010    50.04;
                     50.99;
                     53.01
                     131.20-
268      7-12-2011   131.25;
                     131.99
272      4-3-2014    TSO Table I
                     92.01-
275      12-1-2015   92.09;
                     92.99
276      10-4-2016   154.029
277-A    11-1-2016   154.326
                     71.01-
277      11-13-2017  71.23;
                     71.99
279      2-12-2018   31.20-
                     31.27
                     110.20-
                     110.36;
281      6-5-2018    110.50-
                     110.52;
                     110.99
                     70.40-
280      1-8-2019    70.54;
                     70.99
                     113.01-
287      9-3-2019    113.12;
                     113.99
288      10-1-2019   30.02
285      1-7-2020    30.15
289      1-7-2020    11.01
290      7-7-2020    154.415-
                     154.424
291      8-13-2020   TSO Table II
292      10-20-2020  154.062;
                     154.147
- -      4-6-2021    110.30
34.14  11-9-2021   34.14
                     51.01-
295      2-1-2022    51.10;
                     51.20-
                     51.28
                     52.001-
                     52.003;
                     52.015-
                     52.017;
                     52.025;
                     52.026;
                     52.035-
                     52.041;
297      3-1-2022    52.050-
                     52.064;
                     52.070-
                     52.080;
                     52.090-
                     52.112;
                     52.125-
                     52.129;
                     52.140-
                     52.142
298      3-1-2022    116.01-
                     116.08
                     91.01-
300      6-7-2022    91.03;
                     91.15-
                     91.26
192      8-3-2022    Ch. 73 Schd. I
251      8-3-2022    70.06
275      8-3-2022    92.05
300      8-3-2022    91.16
                     72.01-
232      10-4-2022   72.13;
                     72.99
287      11-1-2022   113.10
288      11-1-2022   30.02
                     94.01-
302      11-1-2022   94.06;
                     94.99
295      12-6-2022   51.05
                     92.01;
304      2-7-2023    92.02;
                     92.10;
                     92.99
304      5-17-2023   150.07
307      7-11-2023   117.01-
                     117.08
309      9-5-2023    90.04
310      10-3-2023   51.05
                     33.01;
311      11-7-2023   33.10-
                     33.20
                    
 
 
